59828-)
This leader had a major diplomatic standoff with France after his nephews stole a yacht belonging to Bruno Roger, painted it yellow, and tried to auction it back to French officials. He received a de-facto exile as Polish Ambassador after the Gafsa Incident, a comically failed coup that saw angry lunatics drive through the streets shooting people and demanding they blame the government. Bettino Craxi supposedly instructed Italy's SISMI to secretly facilitate this leader's rise to power in order to prevent Chadli Benjadid from invading. The opposition of al-Nabhani's Hizb ut-Tahrir, or Liberation Party, led this man to reshape the Neo-Destour Party into the Constitutional Democratic Rally after declaring his predecessor, Habib Bourguiba, medically unfit for office. After this man's agents confiscated some fruits and vegetables from a 26 year-old grad student, the student lit himself on fire, sparking protests against this man that led Mohamed Ghannouchi to take over in the Jasmine Revolution. For 10 points, name this recently-deposed former dictator of Tunisia.
Zine El Abidine Ben Ali
8

62202-)
A recent mass death of puffins off this nation's coast has mirrored a similar dead bird event in Arkansas. In the aftermath of one recent crisis in this nation, Edison Pena was invited to (*) Graceland to celebrate Elvis's 76th birthday, but that man and his fellows are better-known for being the subject of a rescue mission based at the tent city Camp Hope. For 10 points, name this nation that recently saw thirty-three miners emerge safely from underground after being trapped for 69 days, whose rescue capsule from that incident now resides in Santiago.
Chile
3

64180-)
This man was Director of Corporate Affaris at Carlton Communications during that company's failed attempt at a merger with United Business Media, and in February 2011, this man was the second person to field questions via YouTube's "World View" program. A financial agreement brokered by this man is called Project Merlin. This man received his most notable position after negotiation with Nick Clegg, and after succeeding a man who resigned in May 2010 amidst the problems of the financial crisis. For 10 points, name this current Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
David Cameron
3

69488-)
This man's government released a series of 7 points, including "realizing comprehensive, direct, and two-way three links" in the May 17 statement. This ruler promulgated a moral code known as the Eight Honors and Eight Shames, and during this man's tenure the slang term "River Crab" has been used as a byword for censorship, since it sounds similar to this official's idea of a "Harmonious Society". This leader's nation recently saw the World Expo, and early in his tenure the Golden Shield Project was fully implemented; that effort, also known as "The Great Firewall", was an extensive internet censorship mechanism. This leader was praised for his handling of the SARS crisis with more openness than his country's government is known for. For 10 points, name this successor of Jiang Zemin, the current president of China.
Hu Jintao
6

69497-)
Iara Lee managed to smuggle out footage from this event. Kate Greghart was tasered while attempting to photograph it from onboard the Challenger 1. One person killed in this event was a member of the Felicity Party. The attackers in this event released a series of 20 videos showing soldiers being attacked with metal pipes. Officially known as Operation Sea Breeze or Operation Sky Winds, this event saw the discovery of several weapons on the Mavi Marmara. The United States refused a request from Benjamin Netanyahu to veto any condemnation of Israel after this event. For 10 points, name this 2010 event in which Israeli Defense Forces seized several humanitarian aid vessels headed for Gaza.
Gaza Flotilla Raid [accept Operation Sea Breeze or Operation Sky Winds before mentioned]
6

71623-)
This man's government hosted the World People's Conference of Climate Change as a follow up of the Copenhagen conference. He supports the Red Ponchos movement and most recently he defeated rival Manfred Reyes Villa in an election. He was elected president following a series of protests regarding his country's production of natural gas. The party he heads led rallies in 2000 protesting water privatization in Cochabamba. He succeeded Eduardo Rodriguez in his current post, where he leads the Movement for Socialism party and advocates policies like the teaching of Quechua in classrooms and the legalization of coca farming. For 10 points, name this indigenous President of Bolivia.
Evo Morales
7

71854-)
Steve Hilton works as a strategist for this man, who defeated David Davis in a 2005 party election. Opposition to this man refers to him as a chameleon and he generated controversy after it was revealed he made a 1989 vacation trip to apartheid era South Africa. His cabinet consists of individuals as William Hague and Kenneth Clarke. In 2005, he succeeded Michael Howard as head of his party. Nick Clegg serves as this man's deputy, and he reached his highest position after a coalition was formed between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats. For 10 points, name this new Prime Minister of Great Britain.
David Cameron
7

72095-)
Goldman Sachs recently stated that this nation has the most overvalued currency in the world, and its semipublic energy company is the second largest company in the world after ExxonMobil. One prominent politician in this coun- try, an environmentalist who grew up collecting tree sap and learned to read at the age of sixteen, is Marina Silva. This nation is still investigating whether improper access was given to the tax records of the daughter of another politician, Jose Serra. This nation recently elected a former Marxist guerilla who claims she was tortured in 1970 as its President, replacing Luis Inacio Lula da Silva with his chief of staff Dilma Rousseff. Name this Portuguese-speaking nation whose largest city is Sao Paulo.
Brazil
3

78366-)
Among his accomplishments are numerous missions to poor areas and using proceeds from PDVSA on social programs.
Hugo Chavez
6

101808-)
This man lost his first political office when he was given a ten month jail sentence for inciting religious hatred by reciting a poem. In December 2013, a recording of this man and his son discussing how to hide large sums of money was posted on Youtube. During this man's administration, a series of high-profile trials of suspected members of the clandestine organization Ergenekon have taken place. In 2013, people shouting "everyday I'm chapulling" protested a plan by this man's government to construct a (*) shopping mall in Taksim Gezi park. This man's AKP government approved a 2009 plan to reconcile with the PKK by allowing official broadcasts in Kurdish but has also jailed hundreds of journalists. For 10 points, name this former leader of the Justice and Development Party, a former mayor of Istanbul who after a long stint as Prime Minister, became the President of Turkey.
Recep Tayyip Erdogan
7

123317-)
In this country in September 2015, a camerawoman tripped migrants fleeing from a refugee camp in Roszke. In 2015, Viktor Orban, this country's Prime Minister, ordered fences on its borders with Serbia and Croatia to stop (*) Syrian refugees from entering this country. For ten points, name this European country that, as critics ironically note, is seeking guest workers to work in Budapest.
Hungary
1

141064-)
A photograph from this city was the subject of the quote "we live in different press worlds" by the New York Times's Dean Baquet (back-AY). After an event in this city, a tweet calling for a "final solution," which was then appended to the phrase "true solution," was issued by columnist Katie Hopkins. An event here was described in another tweet reading "broken. From the bottom of my heart, i am so so sorry." The US President claimed that "evil losers" had struck in this city. Events in this city led to the threat level of "critical" for the first time in a country since 2007, and those events also led to a denunciation of intelligence leaks by both Donald Trump and Prime Minister Theresa May. For 10 points, name this English city where an Ariana Grande concert in May 2017 was the target of a suicide bomber.
Manchester &lt;Cheyne&gt;
7

148799-)
A campaign ad in this country featured the doctor Pansy Lai, who was nearly censured over her alleged support of conversion therapy. The controversial book The Gender Fairy, about two transgender children, is from this country. A mural in this country that depicted George Michael as a saint was defaced by a man who stated “I’m defending my religion.” In December 2017, thousands of Twitter users from this country tweeted “eat shit Lyle,” referring to the conservative lobbyist Lyle Shelton. In this country, Liberal Party Senator Dean Smith introduced an amendment that changed the words “a man and a woman” to “a union of 2 people” in its 1961 Marriage Act, in accordance with the 61 percent of voters who chose “Yes” on a November 2017 “postal survey.” For 10 points, name this country where same-sex marriage was legalized by the government of Malcolm Turnbull.
Australia [or Commonwealth of Australia] &lt;Current Events&gt;
7

150397-)
The magazine Woman’s Message and a “Revolutionary Association of Women” were founded by an activist from this country known as Meena. Shamsia Hassani is a prominent graffiti artist from this country known for painting women. An all-female student robotics team from this country was briefly denied American visas in 2017 before receiving a special parole. Like the practice of vani in a neighboring country, a female is (*) given to the victim’s family to repay a crime in this country’s practice of baad. An escapee of that practice named Bibi Aisha received reconstructive surgery in the United States after her nose and ears were cut off in this country. Young boys are dressed as women in a form of sexual slavery in this country called bacha bazi. Steve McCurry photographed a green-eyed girl in this country wearing a red headscarf for an iconic 1985 cover of National Geographic. For 10 points, name this country where women’s rights have been notoriously abused by the Taliban.
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan &lt;EC, Current Events&gt;
8

151697-)
A politician from this country told another country to “go away and shut up.” Another man from this country mentioned over a million dollars in donations to its governing party and advocated “robust dialogue” in a response to an event here. An author from this non-US country co-wrote a book subtitled Terror From Within that accused a foreign leader of orchestrating four 1999 bombings as part of a plot to win re-election. That man, who coined the term “Mafia State,” (*) died in this country in November 2006 due to a radioactive polonium overdose. Over 150 suspected spies were expelled by 27 countries in response to an incident in which a man and his daughter were poisoned in this country with Novichok. For 10 points, name this country where Alexander Litvinenko died, and where Sergei and Yulia Skripal were poisoned by a Russian nerve agent in 2018.
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland [accept any underlined part; also accept England] &lt;CH Current Events&gt;
6

155221-)
This man organized a wave of protests using rubber ducks as their emblem, due to their target having bought a house in France for his pet ducks. This man was brought to court on charges of embezzlement after protests in 2011, and splashed with green dye during another political campaign. This man became famous after running an opposition-oriented LiveJournal blog. This man lost his first mayoral election to Sergei (*) Sobyanin, and led protests after the arrests of Pussy Riot. This man was once again arrested after planning a wave of protests striking all of Russia’s major cities in 2017. For 10 points, name this Russian opposition leader with plans to run against Vladimir Putin in Russia’s next election.
Alexei Navalny &lt;JM&gt;
8

155968-)
In announcing that voters had chosen to perform this action, the prime minister said that some people had voted “with sorrowful acceptance and heavy hearts” but that it will create a “more tolerant, open and respectful” country. The movement Love Both opposed the campaign to perform this action, which was spurred by the inconsistent application of the X Case ruling and the 2012 death of Savita Halappanavar. This action undid the 1983 passage of the Eighth Amendment, which was created in the wake of a visit by John Paul II. The hashtag “#HomeToVote” was used by people travelling to participate in this action, which was advocated by Leo Varadkar, the incumbent Taoiseach (TEE-shuck). For 10 points, identify this May 2018 result of an Irish referendum which changes laws regarding pregnant women.
legalizing abortion in the Republic of Ireland [or empowering the Irish legislature or Oireachtas to change abortion laws or similar wording; or passing the Thirty-sixth Amendment to the Irish Constitution; or repealing the Eighth Amendment to the Irish Constitution until “Eighth Amendment” is read; prompt on repealing or modifying Article 40.3.3 of the Irish Constitution; do not accept or prompt on answers that refer to “Northern Ireland”] &lt;The above question is for the category Current Events Non-US and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

157049-)
In March 2017, two girls were prevented from entering one of these places with an employee pass because they were wearing leggings. In February 2018, a woman in Florida flushed her emotional support hamster down the toilet after she wasn’t allowed to bring it into one of these locations. After a Chinese lady was prevented from bringing a full (*) bottle of cognac into one of these places, she proceeded to down the whole thing, then was refused entry for being drunk. For 10 points, name these places out of which the Vietnamese doctor David Dao was dragged by the staff of United Airlines.
Aeroplanes
7

157502-)
John Kirton described the attendants of this event as a “lonely hearts club, a kind of group therapy.” A photo from this event shows an attendant looking uncomfortable after a firm handshake left him with a noticeable white mark. This event was described by a commentator as the “geopolitical equivalent of the Comey firing.” An attendant of this event refused to sign a document finalizing it, calling its author “mild and meek.” Various (*) “Sherpas” were sent to this event’s location prior to it, and Peter Boehm served as its deputy minister. An attendant of this event drew the ire of the other leaders when he suggested that a former member of the meeting organization be reinstated. For 10 points, name this event that was held in La Malbaie (“la mal-BAY”), Québec, in June 2018 between the namesake seven countries.
44th G7 Summit [or 2018 G7 Summit; accept Group of Seven in place of “G7”] &lt;PL, Current Events&gt;
7

158139-)
In January 2018, the owner of the Econet Group became the first billionaire born in this country. Supporters of this country’s current leader carry stuffed reptiles to play on his nickname of “the Crocodile.” The leader of this country’s G40 political faction attracted controversy when she was accused of using an extension cord to assault a model. The head of this country’s armed forces, Constantino (*) Chiwenga, placed its president under house arrest in November 2017 in a move its military insisted was not a coup d’état. For 10 points, name this African country that has been led by Emmerson Mnangagwa since Robert Mugabe’s removal from power.
Republic of Zimbabwe &lt;MK&gt;
4

158154-)
Description acceptable. Bryan Fogel’s documentary Icarus describes his meeting with a major figure in this scandal. Samuel Schmid was the chair of a group that looked into this controversy, which was also investigated by the Oswald Commission. A person involved in this scandal described how materials were passed from Room 125 to Room 124 through a hole in the wall; that person was the doctor (*) Grigory Rodchenkov, and the materials were urine samples. This controversy led to an important December 2017 decision by the IOC. For 10 points, identify this scandal that led to a certain country’s exclusion from the 2018 Winter Olympics.
Russian doping scandal [accept any equivalent description; prompt if Russia isn’t mentioned] &lt;JW&gt;
4

158815-)
During a debate on allowing assisted suicide, this politician grabbed Gord Brown and elbowed a female politician before being called “pathetic” by Tom Mulcair. A debunked conspiracy which began on Reddit states that this politician is the child of Fidel Castro. This politician was found to have violated conflict of interest laws after going on a Christmas trip to a (*) private island belonging to Aga Khan. This politician represents the riding of Papineau and he led the Liberal Party to an increase of 148 seats when he was elected to his current position, which led to the resignation of Stephen Harper. For 10 points, name this current Prime Minister of Canada.
Justin (Pierre James) Trudeau [prompt on Trudeau; do not accept or prompt on “Pierre Trudeau”] &lt;BC&gt;
4

159343-)
This leader required that nongovernmental organizations receiving 25,000 dollars or more in donations were required to label themselves as “foreign-funded.” This man rose to party leadership after protesting the unmarked burial of Pál Maléter (“pal mah-LAY-ter”) and three others in the Municipal Cemetery. Billboards reading “The people have decided. The country has to be protected” were erected after this leader approved a border wall against Serbia and Croatia. This leader made the creation of an “illiberal state” a founding principle of his Fidesz (“FEE-dess”) party. Shortly after the US Holocaust Museum denounced him for praising Miklós Horthy (“MEEK-lohsh HOR-tee”), his government printed propaganda posters depicting a grinning George Soros. For 10 points, name this authoritarian Prime Minister of Hungary.
Viktor Orbán [or Viktor Mihály Orbán] &lt;Current Events&gt;
7

161732-)
1. Drawing on his research for The Pillars of the Earth, novelist Ken Follett charted the likely progress of this event. An apiarist named Nicolas Géant ("JEE-ahn") found evidence that some 200,000 Buckfast bees survived it. In a speech on the "Great National Debate" delayed due to this event, the President announced the closure of his alma mater and greater funding for rural hospitals. The middling videogame (*) Assassin's Creed: Unity was "reverse" review-bombed with good reviews after this event. The billionaire Bernard Arnault pledged 200 million euros in response to this event, during which Donald Trump called for using "flying water tankers" to end it. For 10 points, what April 2019 event extensively damaged a Parisian cathedral?
2019 Notre Dame fire [accept any answer indicating the Notre-Dame de Paris Cathedral caught on fire]  &lt;Jose, Current Events - World&gt;
5

161957-)
13. This politician announced a clause dubbed “Harman’s Law," which requires consideration of socio-economic inequalities when making financial decisions, while serving as Minister of Women and Equality. In a 2002 speech, this figure stated that her party must change because people knew it as a “Nasty Party." This leader was criticized for banning the khat during her tenure as (*) Home Secretary. A 2017 “snap election” called upon by this leader led to Jeremy Corbyn’s Labour Party gaining dozens of seats. This leader came into power after her country voted to leave the European Union. For 10 points, name this current female British Prime Minister.
Theresa May &lt;Current Events, AK&gt;&lt;ed. KLu and AK&gt;
3

