63832-)
One group of these organizations is funded nationally by the founders of the Gap and is called KIPP. A 2010 documentary titled The Lottery followed one of these institutions in Harlem, and their success was heralded in Davis Guggenheim's film Waiting for "Superman". These organizations receive public money, are not permitted to charge tuition, and often have long waiting lists of prospective students. For 10 points, name this type of school which is usually governed by a namesake document.
charter schools [prompt on "school"]
3

64453-)
In one election in this state, a lieutenant governor candidate dropped out after revelations that he had held a knife to the throat of a former prostitute ex-girlfriend. That man was Scott Lee Cohen. One politician from this state was satirized by a fake Twitter account set up by Dan Sinker. One politician from this state was criticized for using the phrase "fucking retarded" to describe activists.
Illinois
6

64672-)
Future Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist operated on this man after he was accidentally shot in the chest with an M-16 in 1991. As head of the army's officer school at Fort Leavenworth, this man oversaw the writing of Army Field Manual 3-24, which was an effort to revise counterinsurgency doctrine. This man assumed his current position shortly after his predecessor, Stanley McCrystal, was fired for comments he made regarding civilian military policy in Rolling Stone. For 10 points, name this one-time commander of the Multi-National Forces in Iraq, and current commander of U.S. forces in Afghanistan.
David Petraeus
7

71607-)
This man's father formed a "Gang of Four" with politicians like Percy Sutton and once ran on a gubernatorial ticket with Arthur Goldberg. A state Court of Appeals had to overturn the appellate division and say that this man had the legal right to appoint Richard Ravitch to a certain position. After a series of controversies, including reports of domestic abuse and improperly obtaining World Series tickets, this man said he will not run for reelection, opening the way for an Andrew Cuomo campaign. This man assumed his current position after sex-fueled controversies forced his predecessor, Elliot Spitzer, to resign. For 10 points, name this partially blind politician who serves as the governor of New York.
David Paterson
7

71934-)
Under one position, this man issued a license to the funeral directors association in his state to manage a trust fund and alleged Ponzi scheme, according to an ongoing lawsuit against that body. This man dismissed Mary Kenney's memo identifying errors in the investigation of death row prisoner Rolando Cruz, although George Ryan pardoned that man and declared a moratorium on death penalties. Under Senate Rule 2, Nancy Erikson declared invalid a move by Rod Blagojevich to fill this man into a certain position. For 10 points, name this junior senator from Illinois.
Roland Wallace Burris
7

73118-)
One district in this state is represented by a Democrat who in 2008 won the seat vacated by the indicted Rick Renzi, Ann Kirkpatrick. Another Representative from this state "hosts" a namesake "Hour" at the end of spending debates, in which he asks House members to come to the floor and justify their earmarks, while another Representative compared recent reform to "Soviet-style gulag health care"; those men are Jeff Flake and John Shadegg. This state's two Senators include a man who filed an amicus brief to the Supreme Court with Lindsey Graham in Hamdan v. Rumsfeld, and who is the current Senate Minority Whip, and a man who was part of the Keating Five and rode on the Straight Talk Express. For 10 points, what is this US state, represented in the Senate by Jon Kyl and the 2008 Republican nominee for President, John McCain?
Arizona
7

94537-)
In an interview about his country's food system, the leader of this party recalled a visit to Guatemala where he saw helicopters dump pesticides on bananas. Two members of this party were expelled for complaining about its lack of internal democracy on TV, while another produced the videos "Prometheus" and "Gaia." This party organizes "Meetups" to discuss issues and hosts "V-Days," during which participants sign initiatives in order to (*) criticize the government. This civic list-organized party's major pillars are development, environmentalism, sustainable transportation, public water and internet connectivity, although it is also known for its opposition to campaign contributions and the eurozone. This party won one hundred and nine seats in the 2013 general election against its major rivals, the PD and PDL, after a huge meeting in Piazza San Giovanni. For 10 points, name this social network and blog-driven Italian political party founded by the comedian Beppe Grillo.
Five Star Movement [or MoVimento Cinque Stelle; or M5S]
9

99195-)
One of this organization's web pages was defaced with text that included the phrase "the point in the entire global population is supporting you. NOBODY!" by a group called BMPocWE. This organization's Ladee mission began on 7 September 2013 at Wallops, Virginia. Its current administrator is Charles Bolden. In September 2013, it successfully tested its new (*) Cygnus delivery system. Staff working at this organization's Ames Facility mistakenly ordered all Chinese nationals to be banned from attending one of its November 2013 conferences on the end of the Kepler Mission. This organization launched the Curiosity Rover and in September 2013, it announced that its Voyager-1 mission had finally reached interstellar space. For 10 points, name this American space program.
NASA [or National Aeronautics and Space Administration]
7

105731-)
This man invoked a taxpayer protection bill as part of his investigation of climate scientist MichaelMann. Citizens United released a film attacking an opponent of this man as "Fast." This politicianrequested that the Supreme Court re-instate an overturned law banning sexual "crimes against nature," andwhile serving in the state legislature blocked efforts to bring that law in line with Lawrence v. Texas. Thisman issued a memo to public universities in his state claiming that "sexual orientation" could not beincluded as a protected status in their anti-discrimination policies. After a newspaper insisted that this manuphold tradition by resigning, he retorted that "tradition" dated all the way back to 1982. For 10 points,name this Republican candidate currently opposed by Terry Mcauliffe in his attempt to become Governorof Virginia.
Ken Cuccinelli II
9

133421-)
In September 2014 and September 2015, respectively, this man signed bills creating Enhanced Infrastructure Financing Districts and Community Revitalization Authorities, both of which re-establish powers previously held by the redevelopment agencies that this politician dissolved in 2012. This man lost a 2015 legislative fight to impose a 50% target for reduction of oil use after pressure on fellow Democrats from the Western States Petroleum Association. This politician opposed a plan in 2015 to use a "split roll," which separates reassessment of commercial and residential property, to reform (*) Proposition 13, an initiative passed against his objections during his first term. This governor defeated his 2014 opponent Neel Kashkari 66% to 19%, and promised to use his fourth term to institute dramatic greenhouse gas reduction targets, carry out the Bay Delta Conservation Plan, and begin construction on high-speed rail. For 10 points, name this governor of California.
Edmund Gerald "Jerry"  Brown Jr. [prompt on "Brown"]
8

141124-)
This man noted that his children still "have PTSD from mutton busting." He's not Donald Trump, but he inadvertently got laughs when he said John Hancock wrote his name "bigly." This man said that "42" was the answer to the ultimate question of life in a humorous conversation with Ted Cruz. The most famous son of former EPA administrator Anne Burford, he was branded "absurd" by Al Franken, who objected to this man's support of the company in the so-called "frozen trucker" case. Despite being ranked as "well-qualified" by the American Bar Association, Democrats claim this man stole the position that should have gone to Merrick Garland. For 10 points, name this judge who replaced the late Antonin Scalia on the Supreme Court.
Neil Gorsuch &lt;Cheyne&gt;
7

141231-)
In 2016, Martin Shain was indicted for making up a company that supposedly made these items for the Oregon University System. The majority of funds provided by Andrew Cuomo's Buffalo Billion program go to a factory for these items. As a result of the Majuro (MADGE-uh-roh) Declaration, the use of these items in Pacific countries like Tuvalu increased, and in 2012, the territory of Tokelau set a milestone in the use of these items. Despite receiving over 500 million dollars in government loans, a company that made these items from cylindrical components went bankrupt in 2011. Years after they were dismantled by Ronald Reagan, Barack Obama reinstalled these items on the White House roof. For 10 points, name these items that generate power from light.
solar panels [or solar cells; or photovoltaic cells; or photovoltaic modules; or PV cells] &lt;Shimizu&gt;
7

141336-)
Michael Reynolds was told to produce photographs of this event. On the morning of this event, a planned, multi-year performance art exhibition was set up at the Museum of the Moving Image by the team of Luke Turner, Nastja Sade Ronkko, and Shia LeBeouf. The Interior Department briefly shut down its Twitter account following this event amid accusations that its agencies were going rogue. The coining of the phrase "alternative facts" originated from discussions about this event. During it, a man defiantly said "from this day forward, it's going to be only America first!" Sean Spicer's assertion that this event featured the largest audience of its kind is almost certainly untrue. For 10 points, name this January 20, 2017, event that officially marked the beginning of the term of the 45th President of the United States.
the inauguration of Donald Trump &lt;Cheyne&gt;
7

142363-)
This man said that he would make the phrase “Merry Christmas” more widely used than “Happy Holidays” in department stores, and also commented that the EPA was a “disgrace”. This politician suggested that “Second Amendment people” could prevent pro-gun control (*) Supreme Court justices from getting nominated. This politician compared Syrian refugees to a bowl of Skittles with a few poisoned ones, and one woman said that half of the supporters of this man could be put into a “basket of deplorables.” He also claimed that Barack Obama was not born in the United States. For ten points, name this man who defeated Hillary Clinton to become the 45th president of the United States.
Donald Trump [accept The Donald, do not accept Donald Trump Jr., prompt on “Trump”]
3

145646-)
A sociologist who moved from Pennsylvania and now teaches in this state described how the title condition has replaced Elliot Liebow’s “manly flaws” to account for unemployment or relationship failure in On the Run: Fugitive Life in an American City. In 2011, a freedom of information request was filed for a historian in this state who discussed Chicago’s role in shaping the ecosystem of the American West in his book Nature’s Metropolis. This state’s university president John Bascom inspired Charles McCarthy to write a 1912 book titled for the policy of this state’s university to aid the government in crafting social legislation. That concept, called this state’s “Idea,” may have been coined by its Frederick Jackson Turner. The 2017 Pulitzer for general nonfiction went to Matthew Desmond for his study of eviction in the largest city of, for 10 points, what state in which William Cronon blogged criticism of Scott Walker?
Wisconsin
9

147279-)
Ninety-one year old Florence Genova died during this event, although her daughter insists the death was not caused by this event. A participant in it remarked that he and a subordinate “didn’t travel in the same circles in high school,” saying he “was the class president and athlete.” A message about this event notes “it will be a tough November for” a “little Serbian,” while David Wildstein dismissed feeling sorry for kids because “they are the children of (*) Buono voters.” This scandal resulted in the firing of Deputy Chief of Staff Bridget Anne Kelly, and many believe it was perpetrated in retribution against Democratic Mayor Mark Sokolich’s lack of support for the governor in the 2013 election. For 10 points, name this recent political scandal in which Governor Chris Christie apparently attempted to create traffic jams at a certain location.
Bridgegate [or the Fort Lee lane closure scandal; or the George Washington Bridge lane closure; accept anything about Christie closing lanes or closing a bridge lane, prompt on Christie creating traffic jams and related answers]
6

148643-)
Description acceptable. A report by Timothy J. Heaphy sharply criticized the response to this event, which caused Kenneth Frazier and several CEOs to resign from a manufacturing council. In a Vice News video from this event, Christopher Cantwell remarked “I go to the gym all the time.” After this event, a clip from the short film Don’t Be a Sucker was shared by Keith Ellison. The Internet discovered the identities of a hot dog stand worker in Berkeley and a man in an “Arkansas Engineering” shirt who participated in this event. The phrase “very fine people on both sides” referenced participants in this event, where Heather Heyer was killed in a hit-and-run. During this event, a tiki torch-wielding mob surrounded a statue of Robert E. Lee in Emancipation Park. For 10 points, identify this August 2017 white supremacist rally held near the University of Virginia.
Unite the Right rally [accept any answers that mention a rally or protest taking place in Charlottesville or the University of Virginia; prompt on far-right or white supremacist rally by asking “At where?”] &lt;Current Events&gt;
7

151920-)
After receiving a text reading “help me,” A. J. Benza helped this man uncover information about Michael Jackson and Roger Clemens. In a recording, this man says “Don’t ruin your friendship with me for five minutes” to Ambra Gutierrez. This “Friend of Pecker” collaborated with Hillary Clinton on a documentary about her campaign, which upset (*) Lena Dunham. A memorandum by Lauren O’Connor about this man describes his meetings with business partners in his hotel room. Emily Nestor, Rose McGowan, and Ashley Judd are three of the more than sixty women allegedly targeted by this cofounder of Miramax. For 10 points, name this movie producer accused of sexual assault whose misdeeds partially inspired the #MeToo movement.
Harvey Weinstein &lt;OL Current Events&gt;
6

152797-)
This person interviewed Indian officials while pretending to be a CNN reporter in the early 1990s as part of a $700,000 deal he signed with Pakistan’s Inter-Service Intelligence agency. In 2014, this man became the consultant for the center-left political party Opposition Bloc. Along with Charles Black, Peter Kelly, and Roger Stone, he operated a lobbying firm that represented Jonas (*) Savimbi, Ferdinand Marcos, and Mobutu Sese Seko. While on bail, this man was caught writing an anonymous op-ed about himself with political operative Konstantin Kilimnik. This man was charged with conspiracy against the United States and violation of the Foreign Agents Registration Act, along with his business associate Rick Gates. For 10 points, name this former Trump campaign manager who was indicted by the FBI on October 30, 2017.
Paul Manafort &lt;Sivakumar&gt;
5

155691-)
Suppliers of this good can take advantage of the Ellis Act, which circumvents some restrictions on removing this good. This good was the subject of Proposition F and Proposition I, also known as the “Mission Moratorium,” two failed ballot propositions that regulated the provision of this good. A plan to provide this good in Mountain View was forbidden by the city council in order to protect burrowing owls. Restrictions on the supply of this good include “sunset” laws that regulate the casting of shadows and a 40-foot maximum height law that was partially modified by Proposition D in 2015. Approximately 60,000 people per year leave the San Francisco area due to the high cost of this good. For 10 points, name this good whose namesake “crisis” is causing high rents throughout California.
housing [or houses; or homes; or apartments; or residences; or affordable housing] &lt;The above question is for the category Current Events US and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

156622-)
During this event, communities near Jackson Hole, Wyoming reported many occurrences of illegal camping, while the state itself estimated a tripling of Wyoming’s population due to visitors for this event. In July 2017, Amazon required that all vendors selling (*) protective equipment for this event must have ISO accreditation for UV light. At a viewing party for this event, President Trump was rumored to have observed this event without proper protection. Renewable energy production in the line of totality was reduced during, for 10 points, what August 21, 2017 event in which the Sun was fully blocked by the Moon.
total solar eclipse of 2017 [accept similar and prompt gratuitously; prompt on the Great American Eclipse] &lt;Halza&gt;
2

158078-)
One of the first of these people was a musician named Tereza Lee, whose name was frequently mentioned by Dick Durbin. A Splinter article about why “you should stop using this term” mentions that this term is “rooted in exceptionalism” and separates “deserving” from “undeserving.” In September 2017, a group of protesters described by this term chanted “we are not a (*) bargaining chip” at a town hall held by Nancy Pelosi. This term refers to people who presented their GED or high school diploma and paid a $495 fee to obtain temporary legal status. For 10 points, give this term often used to refer to young undocumented immigrants under the DACA program.
DREAMers [accept DACAmented; prompt on undocumented immigrants or illegal immigrants or illegal aliens] &lt;IKD&gt;
4

161788-)
15. Abacus, a small bank owned by members of this ethnic group, was the only US bank prosecuted following the 2008 Financial Crisis. A six-year-old's offensive comments on Jimmy Kimmel Live about members of this ethnic group garnered severe criticism from the World Journal newspaper in 2013. The group Red Canary was formed to agitate for rights for sex workers after a NYPD raid killed a member of this ethnicity. These people were the original market for the Eastern Shuttle (*) bus line. Edward Blum has allied himself with the group Students for Fair Admissions, primarily composed of members of this ethnic group, in an affirmative action lawsuit against Harvard much discussed on WeChat. For 10 points, name this ethnic group most likely to speak Mandarin.
Chinese-Americans [accept Han Chinese; prompt on Asian-Americans]  &lt;Bentley, Current Events - U.S.&gt;
5

