68782-)
In this work, the chorus laments their home's downfall in 'Oh, it was not a stormy wind that howled.' Two characters sing matching cavatinas, 'The daylight dies' and 'Where art thou, where,' prior to their love duet, though they part when the title character, who is referred to as a 'falcon,' sings 'Nor rest, nor sleep of any kind.' The Mariinsky edition replaced the epilogue chorus 'God heard our prayers' with 'Glory to the multitude of stars,' thus repeating the material that followed the prologue's (*) solar eclipse. That prologue also features the deserters-turned-gudok-players Skula and Yeroshka, who ring the bells for the title character's return to Putivl to fight against the khans Gzak and Konchak. For 10 points, name this opera featuring the Polovtsian March, a work of Alexander Borodin.
Prince Igor or Knyaz' Igor' (Jha)
9

72327-)
This opera sees one character sing a czardas to prove that she is Hungarian. Another character in this work takes a day off under the pretense that her aunt is sick, while a notary initiates the canon “Brothers and Sisters” at the end Act II. A hung-over prison guard disguised as Chevalier Chagrin hears the “Audition aria” sung by a maid who poses as the actress Adele in this work. Chacun a son gout is sung by Prince (*) Orlofsky at a ball where one character appears disguised as Marquis Renard. After his wife Rosalinde proves her fidelity, that man, Baron Eisenstein, is forced to serve out his jail sentence. For 10 points, name this Johann Strauss operetta about Falke, who is costumed as the titular winged mammal.
Die Fledermaus [or The Bat ]
5

72520-)
In one of this man's operas, Splendiano loses to Haroun in competing for the title character, while the aria Non v'e signor” is sung by Ernesto, who helps Odoardo and Bettina thwart the title figure of another work by this man. In a third opera by this man, a character leaves a borrowed rose brooch in a man's bedroom, leading Smith to think that Catherine is unfaithful. Another work by this composer of Djamileh, Don Procopio, and The (*) Fair Maid of Perth contains the duet “Au fond du temple saint” and ends with the death of Zurga, the leader of the titular Pearl Fishers. The bullfighter Escamillo murders the title character of another opera, which  features the “Toreador Song” and a habanera. For 10 points, name this composer of Carmen.
Georges Alexandre Cesar Leopold Bizet
5

72598-)
One character in this opera jokes that the sea will be cold in his painting of The Passage of the Red Sea, and another sends her patron off on the pretext of buying new shoes so that she can embrace her lover. The aria Che gelida manina is sung out of worry for one character's cold hands, and at the end of the opera, (*) Colline sells his overcoat to buy food. The waltz Quando me is sung to tempt a former paramour by Musetta, and this opera also sees a poet buy a pink bonnet for his dying lover. The opera opens with Marcello lamenting his poverty along with the lover of a woman dying of tuberculosis, Rodolfo. For 10 points, name this opera about the doomed seamstress Mimi by Puccini.
La Boheme
5

83871-)
One character in this opera performs the "Csardas" to verify her disguise as a Hungarian countess before stealing her husband's watch to prove his infidelity, and earlier she convinces Alfred to pretend to be her husband and serve his eight-day sentence in jail. In the "laughing" song, "Mein Herr Marquis, ein Mann wie Sie," a maid convinces her master that she is actually an actress. While pretending to be Chevalier Chagrin, the jailer, Frank convinces Adele to come home with him where they find Rosalinde arguing with her husband. Falke leads the guests of Prince Orlofsky's ball to witness Baron Eisenstein's reconciliation, in, for 10 points, this operetta by Johann Strauss.
Die Fledermaus  [or The Bat]
6

155366-)
In this opera’s prelude, the conductor counts both 4/4 (“four-four”) and 6/4 (“six-four”) time during a transition from the opening passage, which uses triads in A-flat major and C minor to establish several motifs. This opera was called a “stroke of genius in seduction” and denounced for overt Christian themes in a book about the Case of its composer by Friedrich Nietzsche. A magician in this opera employs three flower-maidens to seduce warriors, one of whom returns to deliver the “redemption” or “Erlösung” (“air-LUE-zung”) that the chorus sings of in the final scene. Its score uses the Dresden Amen as a motif for the object that names the order to which Gurnemanz (“GOOR-neh-mantz”) belongs. Klingsor’s castle is one setting of this opera, in which the Holy Spear is used to heal the wound of Amfortas. For 10 points, name this Richard Wagner opera whose title knight finds the Holy Grail.
Parzival [or Parsifal]
7

158035-)
In a midtempo “3-4” aria that heavily features two flutes in thirds, this character describes a “whirlwind”-like dance accompanied by the “tinkling rods of the sistra.” This character’s most famous aria is based on a midtempo chromatic scale down from D. This mezzo-soprano role, whose realism caused a scandal at the opera’s 1875 première, reads (*) tarot cards with Frasquita and Mercédès and first appears during a break at a cigarette factory. She sings a seguidilla [seh-gee-DEE-yah] after calling love a “rebellious bird” in her “Habañera” [hah-bah-NYEH-rah] and seduces Escamillo [eh-skah-MEE-yoh], a toreador, before being stabbed by Don José. For 10 points, name this title gypsy of an opera by Georges Bizet [bee-ZAY].
Carmen &lt;JR&gt;
4

158186-)
This opera was the basis for Franz Liszt’s Réminiscences, and a set of variations on a duet from this opera was ecstatically reviewed by Robert Schumann, catapulting Frédéric Chopin to prominence. An aria from this opera, which was written for Prague, begins with the bass singing “Madamina.” This opera’s title man sings “Là ci darem la mano” [LAH chee dah-REM lah MAH-noh] with Zerlina, and it includes the (*) “Champagne” and “Catalogue” arias. It opens with the title man trying to rape Donna Anna as Leporello keeps watch. This opera ends with the title character being dragged to hell after the Commendatore’s statue comes to life. For 10 points, name this Mozart opera about a Spanish seducer.
Don Giovanni [prompt on Don Juan] &lt;JW&gt;
4

