66937-)
This city's  was the site of the Wah Mee massacre, and its suburbs include  and . Its neighborhood of First Hill is nicknamed Pill Hill due to a large number of hospitals, while Capitol Hill and the Denny Regrade are two of this city's seven hills. Its entire central business district was burnt down in 1889 and it hosted 's first city-wide general strike. Boasting a public library designed by Rem Koolhaas, it is also the home of the Bumbershoot Music Festival and has a notable Science Fiction Museum. Surrounded by Kirkland, Bellevue, and Redmond, this seat of King County is situated on Puget Sound. For 10 points, name this birthplace of Starbucks and largest city in Washington State.
Seattle
8

67265-)
The Rio Salado flows into one river of this name, which reaches the Atlantic south of Bahia Bianca in central Argentina. Another river of this name contains empties into Matagorda Bay near Palacios. The "Little" river of this name flows through Nankoweap Canyon and the Kaibab National Forest, after collecting water from the Puerco River, and it includes a kayaking section through the Painted Desert. The aforementioned river passes through a series of "Highland Lakes" including Inks Lake, Lake Buchanan, and Lake Travis before flowing through Austin, Texas. For 10 points, give this name which also applies to a river that forms Lake Powell at the Glen Canyon Dam, before it passes through Yuma and forms the boundary between California and Arizona.
Colorado Rivers
8

67789-)
This area was the namesake of a 1997 poetry collection interspersing tales from the Odyssey and a failed marriage, by Louise Gluck. Planning in this area, whose natural features include William DeKorte Park and Berry's Creek, is handled by a commission founded in 1969 primarily in response to unregulated landfills in this region which features land reclaimed by the Mosquito Control Commission. The remains of Pennsylvania Station were dumped here in 1963, an act which prompted the first historic preservation measures in New York City. Found along the lower reaches of the Hackensack River just north of Newark Bay, for 10 points, name this estuarine wetlands and possible final resting place of Jimmy Hoffa in northeastern New Jersey, also the home of a sports complex containing the Big M and Giants Stadium.
New Jersey Meadowlands [or Hackensack Meadowlands before mention]
7

69469-)
The museum named after this natural feature is currently offering workships on aridity to its teachers. This desert is home to the wait-a-minute tree, whose scientific name honors Josiah Gregg, who has written about this desert. The desert bighorn sheep can be found in and around this region, which is why the Cabeza Prieta Wildlife Refuge was established here. Mount Kofa and Mount Catalina are two mountains in this desert, which is also home to some parts of the Gila and Colorado River. Also home to Saguaro National Park, it is named for a Mexican State. For 10 points, identify this desert that sprawls across Baja California, California and Arizona, a large North American desert.
Sonoran Desert
6

71445-)
A local legend about this mountain tells how Saghalie transformed Wy'east into it as a punishment for defying him. Lakes near this mountain include Burnt Lake, Trillium Lake and Lost Lake. One of the ways to climb this mountain is by using the dangerous Muddy Forks trail. Points of interest at this mountain include Ramona Falls, which flows into Sandy Creek, and the Eliot Creek. This mountain's passes include Zigzag Canyon and it is located nearby the polis of Parkdale. Iit was named by William Broughton, a member of George Vancouver's expedition. For 10 points, name this extinct volcano that has caused multiple climbing accidents in Oregon, its highest point.
Mount Hood
6

71589-)
The removal of the Fort Edward dam in 1973 released contaminated sediment into this river. Once known as the Mauritius, this river possesses a "Wind Gate" formed by Storm King Mountain and Breakneck Ridge, and the Appalachian Trail crosses it on the Bear Mountain Bridge. Its official source is located on Mount Marcy at Lake Tear-of-the-Clouds while the Mohawk is a major tributary. This river widens at Tappan Zee where it is flanked by the Palisades. Crossed by the Holland Tunnel, for 10 points, identify this river that flows through Albany and New York City.
Hudson River
7

76025-)
Northwest of this city lies a wilderness preserve called "Friends of Friedrich," while other vestiges of the German influence remain in the nearby northwestern town of New Braunfels. The King William and China Grove suburbs lie south of this city, while Cattlemen Square is found at Frio and Martin Street near its downtown. Found in Bexar County, it is the southern terminus of the cattle route that connected it to Abilene, Kansas, the Chisholm trail. One major landmark in this city connects tourist traps like the La Villita neighborhood and HemisFair Park to its other major attraction, which is composed of the Convento building and an adjacent church, the site of an 1836 battle against Santa Anna's forces. For 10 points, identify this city home to the River Walk, a large Texan city better known for the Alamo.
San Antonio
8

76066-)
The hydroelectric plants of Silver and Kakabeka Falls power the industrial landscape of this city. The early photosynthesizers represented by the Gunflint Fossils were first collected in the environs of the city by this name, which was previously known as Fort William when the headquarters of the North West Company were moved here from Grand Portage. Another feature by this name forms a coastline on Sibley Provincial Park and is the destination of the Current and Kaninstiquia Rivers. The home to Lakehead University, the city of this name absorbed Port Arthur in 1970 and is found about thirty miles northwest of Isle Royale. For 10 points, name this Ontario city which shares its name with the inlet of Lake Superior that it overlooks.
Thunder Bay [prompt on Lakehead before it is read]
8

76606-)
The name of this park is thought to be a translation of the Minnetaree word “mi tsi a-da-zi,” which describes the distinctive appearance of the cliffs along its namesake river. Mountain ranges located in this park include the Absaroka Range which contains the park’s highest point at Eagle Peak. This park’s namesake lake is considered the highest and the largest mountain lake in North America; other lakes include the Heart, Lewis, and Shoshone. One notable geological feature in this park is Obsidian Cliff, a mountain of volcanic black glass that is one of the largest such deposits in North America. However, more notable features include Giant, Riverside, Steamboat, Firehole, and Old Faithful geysers. FTP, identify this national park in northwestern Wyoming, home to the greatest concentration of thermal sites in the world.
Yellowstone National Park
3

76651-)
This group is in part separated by the Fenimore and Seguam passes. Major groups of islands in this chain include the Fox, Rat and Near Islands, as well as the Islands of Four Mountains. This archipelago’s oldest permanent settlement is Dutch Harbor, built in the 1770s, while an important U.S. naval station during World War Two was located on Adak Island. A former U.S. Coast Guard station patrolled the sealing grounds of the Pribilof Islands, located to the north of this larger archipelago. Its farthest U.S. extents are Attu and Unimak Islands, although technically the Komandor Islands, controlled by Russia, are also part of this chain, which separates the Bering Sea from the northern Pacific Ocean. FTP, name this eleven hundred mile long island chain of southwestern Alaska.
Aleutian Islands
3

78045-)
The city that was this state's largest until the 1980s involves such suburbs as Bar Nunn and Mills, while the center of this state contains Ten Sleep and Thermopolis. It contains the ten-thousand-square mile Sweetwater County, and a third of the U.S.'s uranium reserves. Tourism in this state centers on (*) Big Horn Canyon, Fort Laramie, and Devil's Tower; it also contains the majority of Yellowstone. For 10 points, name this sparsely populated state, home to Casper, Jackson Hole, and Cheyenne.
Wyoming
8

80649-)
This state's last Democratic senator won in 1974, Frank Church, and this state's ski resort of Sun Valley featured the world's first chairlift. This state features the Silver Valley, out of which flows the Coeur d'Alene River, which, after it passes through its namesake lake, becomes the (*) Spokane, which mostly flows through another state. Governed by Butch Otter, this state features Nez Perce County, whose county seat, Lewiston, is the furthest inland seaport in the Western United States and sits at the confluence of the Clearwater and Snake. For 10 points, name this forty-third state, a potato producer with capital Boise.
Idaho
3

81715-)
The Anaconda Mining Company was founded in this state by Marcus Daly after a discovery of silver and copper deposits, and its town of Glasgow is located near its Fort Peck Lake. The Pompey's Pillar national monument in this state is notable for the signature of William Clark inscribed upon it. It has the distinction of being the only state with rivers that eventually flow into the Pacific Ocean, Gulf of Mexico, and Hudson Bay. Also home to the Glacier National park, the Clark, the Blackfoot and the Bitterroot Rivers run through Missoula in this state. For 10 points, identify this state, whose largest city is Billings.
Montana
6

87862-)
You can enter it on the Bright Angel Trail, which allows access to springs at Indian Garden. To its north is the Kaibab national forest, named after a Native American tribe which has a nearby reservation. Reservations that are adjacent to it are for Hualapai and Havasupai tribes, and a million years ago it had volcanic action (*) block its western end. Its immense strata formed mostly below sea level and its Vishnu Schist is on its inner gorge. It is believed to have been formed 5 million years ago, with most downcutting by its river in the last 2. FTP what is this immense valley beginning in Utah which was formed by erosion from the Colorado River?
the Grand Canyon
4

92566-)
This structure was the site of the climactic scene in North by Northwest. A similar structure in Georgia was halted before Stone Mountain was completed. This sculpture designed by Gutzon Borglum is in the Black Hills. For 10 points, name this large sculpture that contains the granite faces of four presidents.
Mount Rushmore
1

92659-)
National parks in this state preserve the Valley of Ten Thousand Smokes, the Kenai Fjords, and Mount St. Elias. Its Bristol Bay is a center of the salmon-fishing industry. The highway that connects this state to the rest of the union crosses British Columbia and the Yukon before it reaches Fairbanks. For 10 points, name this 49th state, the only one that adjoins the Bering Sea and contains part of the Arctic Circle.
Alaska
1

109541-)
The Written Rocks or Petits Escrits are on the north shore of this body of water, while the Maple Islands and Batchawana Bay are on its eastern shore. This lake empties into the North Channel via the St. Marys River and the Soo Locks. Other islands in this lake include Pie Island and Michipicoten Island. The Keweenaw Peninsula extends into this lake, whose largest island is Isle Royale. At the western end of this lake is the largest inland port in the world, Duluth. Another port on this lake is Thunder Bay. For 10 points, name this largest freshwater lake in the world, bordered by Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, and Ontario, one of the five Great Lakes.
Lake Superior
4

112736-)
This state's vacation spot of Candlewood Lake was created by hydroelectric damming. Its two mostpopulous cities contain shuttered gun factories from the Remington and Winchester companies. A town inthis state whose Union Station clock tower reflects a historical clock company is Waterbury, and its mostsouthwesterly county is Fairfield County. It formerly hosted America's Lego brick factory in its town ofEnfield, and P.T. Barnum got his start in this state's most populous city, a site of urban decay calledBridgeport. For 10 points, name this state where Old Saybrook sits by the terminus of a namesake river,whose cities include New Haven and Hartford.
Connecticut
7

132596-)
By navigating up the Finlay River, explorer Samuel Black discovered that this river's headwaters originate from Thutade Lake. After passing through the San Sault Rapids, it narrows to less than half a kilometer through a series of limestone cliffs known as the Ramparts. This river receives much of its water from the Peel and Liard Rivers, while earlier it passes through Lake (*) Athabasca. Known as Deh Cho, or "Big River," it also passes by the Fort Good Hope and Fort Simpson before entering into its large delta bounded by the Richardson Mountains and the Caribou Hills. Emptying into the Beaufort Sea in the Arctic Circle, this river is named after discoverer, who called it "Disappointment River" because it did not lead to the Pacific. For 10 points, name this longest river in Canada.
Mackenzie River [accept Deh Cho before it is read]
7

133130-)
This colony was the childhood home of Mary Prince, whose narrative was the first of a black woman's life to be published in England. It recounts the author's childhood raking salt in the Turk Islands as one of thousands of migrant workers, both slave and free, from this colony, and this colony engaged in a centuries-long conflict over the resulting revenue, which included chopping down all of the trees in those islands to prevent rainfall. To make up for its lack of natural resources, this colony was granted the revenue from a port town at the mouth of the Appomattox River, its namesake "hundred." This colony was first settled by accident when the Sea Venture foundered on its coast on its way to Jamestown, and this place was subsequently called the Somers Colony after the admiral of that expedition on behalf of the Virginia Company. An account of the wreck by William Strachey is widely thought to be a source for The Tempest. For 10 points, name this British protectorate, an island in the mid-Atlantic.
Bermuda
7

152508-)
In this state’s Arrowhead region, iron ore is mined in the Mesabi Range and shipped to cities such as Hibbing. Though it’s not Illinois, Cook County contains this state’s highest point, at Eagle Mountain. The largest concentration of Somalis outside of East Africa can be found in this state. Due to a surveying error, the only point in the US outside of Alaska (*) above the 49th parallel is this state’s Northwest Angle. This state’s population distribution is clustered around its Twin Cities region. For 10 points, name this “Land of 10,000 Lakes” with capital at St. Paul.
Minnesota
4

155897-)
This culture began the practice of painting porch ceilings “haint blue” to ward off ghosts. Lorenzo Dow Turner identified hundreds of loanwords in the language of these people, some of whom he found could count in Mende (MEN-dee) or Fulani (foo-LAH-nee). Generations of women of this community on St. Helena (heh-LEE-nuh) Island are the subject of Julie Dash’s film Daughters of the Dust. This American culture, whose chieftess is Queen Quet, retained an unusual amount of African influence due to the low white population on Lowcountry rice plantations. The name of these people, who are also called “Geechee,” may be a shortened form of “Angola.” For 10 points, identify this term for African-Americans who live in the Sea Islands and coastal plain of Georgia and South Carolina.
Gullah people [or Geechee people until it is read] &lt;The above question is for the category Geography US and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

157982-)
A Beaux-Arts-style art museum in this city’s Midtown is home to Henry Fuseli’s The Nightmare. This city’s International Waterfront is home to a 73-story hotel in its Renaissance Center, as well as this city’s Cobo Center. This city lies north of the Rouge River and it’s home to Belle Isle Park. Berry Gordy founded a company in this city in a building nicknamed (*) “Hitsville U.S.A.” This city is separated from its wealthy suburbs by 8 Mile Road. This city in Wayne County is where Motown Records was founded. It lies across from Windsor, Ontario on a namesake river that empties into Lake Erie. G.M. and Ford are headquartered in—for 10 points—what Michigan city?
Detroit &lt;JR&gt;
4

158018-)
This is the longest mountain chain that was formed alongside the Atlas Mountains by the collision of Laurentia and Gondwana. A culture from these mountains was the subject of a 2016 memoir by J.D. Vance. These mountains are home to a namesake instrument that, despite being plucked, is usually termed a (*) “dulcimer.” Its basin is home to the largest bituminous and anthracite coal deposits in the world. Its Blue Ridge province is home to the Great Smoky Mountains. For 10 points, name this mountain chain of the eastern U.S., covered by an extremely long namesake “Trail.”
Appalachian Mountains [accept Appalachia; accept Appalachian dulcimer or Appalachian Trail] &lt;JR&gt;
4

159015-)
In 2007, residents of a city in this state came up with the idea of running naked every Halloween wearing only a pumpkin on their heads, after which a public nudity law was passed. It’s not Montana, but the Stanley Hotel in this state inspired Stephen King’s novel The Shining. After a surveyor claimed that a park in this state would make a good beer garden, his companion dubbed it the “Garden of the (*) Gods” instead. An airport in this state is the subject of conspiracy theories thanks to its strange murals and swastika-shaped runways. A Pueblo dwelling called the Cliff Palace can be found in this state’s Mesa Verde National Park. A city in this state named after its “Springs” is the location of the US Air Force Academy. For 10 points, name this state whose cities include Boulder and Denver.
Colorado &lt;AP, Other&gt;
7

160604-)
Two of the US's primary sources of this good are located beneath Detroit and Cleveland. Kanawha, West Virginia was founded where wild animals congregated around a large source of this good. It's not dirt, but Cobalt-60 nuclear weapons are nicknamed for this good. The founder of Arbor Day was the heir to a company that produced this good. Tabasco sauce originated at a center for producing this substance at Avery Island, Louisiana. The sculpture “Spiral Jetty” was built on one lake named for this substance. Several land speed records were set at a location named for this substance in Bonneville, Utah. For 10 points, name this good produced by Morton that is the namesake of a lake that lends its name to the capital of Utah.
salt &lt;Geography US - Myers&gt;
7

161476-)
18. A law named for this place was passed following a survey led by Pitt Langford that included artist Thomas Moran and photographer William Henry Jackson. The Northern Pacific railway opened a train station in Livingston to bring tourists to see sites like the West Thumb in this place. A Gilded Age inn at this tourist location designed by Robert C. Reamer is topped by a steep shingled roof; Reamer also designed the Canyon Hotel and (*) Roosevelt Arch here. In 1995, a pack of wolves was reintroduced to this site of a caldera that is North America's largest supervolcano. In 1872, President Grant signed an act named for this place which made it the country's first national park. For 10 points, name this home of the geyser Old Faithful.
Yellowstone National Park [prompt on Wyoming; prompt on Montana or Idaho before "Canyon," do not accept or prompt on those responses thereafter]  &lt;Bentley, Geography - United States&gt;
5

