59779-)
This play ends with a woman observing new crops and guessing "Maybe that's it. Maybe it's the sun." One of its characters brutally shaves his sleeping father in its first scene, and later aggressively sticks his fingers into the mouth of his nephew's girlfriend. The matriarch of this play carries on an affair with Father Dewis, and continually fantasizes about her grandson Ansel. In its second scene, Vince and Shelley arrive at its central locale, a decaying Midwestern corn farm, and are not recognized by Dodge, who spends this play sitting in a front of a television and drinking. In its final scene, Tilden digs up the title character, a result of his incestuous relationship with his mother Halie. Written in the same year as its author's other family tragedy Curse of the Starving Class, for 10 points, name this play by Sam Shepard about a dead infant.
Buried Child
8

59841-)
In the second of these works, the narrator kills a kingbird and extracts bees from its mouth, allowing the ones that remained alive to return to their hive. The eleventh is written in the persona of a "Russian gentleman," and describes a visit to the naturalist John Bartram. The ninth of them portrays the narrator's horror at a slave left in a cage to die, and criticizes the effects of slavery on Charleston, South Carolina, which contrasts with the narrator's praise for the industriousness of Nantucket and Martha's Vineyard in the fourth through eighth of them. The third one claims that in the United States, "individuals of all nations are melted into a new race of men," and is titled "What is an American?" They are framed as correspondences between the English minister Mr. F. B. and the title character, "James," who describes his cultivation of Pine Hill. For 10 points, name these twelve epistolary works by Hector St. John Crevecoeur.
Letters From an American Farmer
8

60264-)
One of the characters in this novella interviews Professor William Channing Webb and hears "old Castro" describe the city of Irem. In its first section, the narrator finds a sculpture created by Henry Anthony Wilcox, while it begins by telling of Francis Wayland Thurston's exploration of the papers of George Gammell Angell. After seeing an old newspaper clipping from the Sidney Bulletin entitled "Mystery Derelict Found at Sea," this work's narrator seeks out that sailor, Gustaf Johansen. That article contains a picture of an idol exactly like one found with violent cults in Greenland and the Louisiana Bayou, the latter found by Inspector Legrasse. Both cults worship a figure who sleeps in R'lyeh and who has wings and a tentacled head. For 10 points, name this short story about the surfacing of an ancient being, by H. P. Lovecraft.
"The Call of Cthulhu"
7

60654-)
This author writes about how "Koreans or Malaysians" were "gossiping over tea and noodles on their break" in his poem "Shirt." The speaker recounts how "In 1927 the Chief of Police / And Mrs W. killed themselves together" in his poem "At Pleasure Bay," which draws on his experience growing up in Long Branch, New Jersey. He presents Pentheus and Dionysus as psychologists in a poem dedicated to his Stanford professor Yvor Winters, whom he uses to defend the madness of poets. Players inhabit the minds of Dr. Eva Fein and the dead rock star Bobby Clemon in this man's foray into text adventure, Mindwheel. His better known collections include Sadness and Happiness and The Want Bone, and he notably created a verse translation of Dante's Inferno. FTP, name this man who succeeded Robert Hass as U.S. Poet Laureate in 1997, and is the poetry editor for Slate magazine.
Robert Pinsky
9

60875-)
The main character of this work touches a bell to summon a boy named Alaric, who takes notes, after which there's a comical exchange about the weight of an ordinary Octavo bible versus the weight of an illustrated family edition bible. That main character blames "Brick" Duffy and "Red" McFadden for a certain crime, only to learn that they're already dead. This work includes several telegraph dispatches from places like Flowers Corners New York - after each dispatch, Inspector Blunt reacts to the exploits of the title figure, who is called "Hassan." In the intro, the author says this story was left out of A Tramp Abroad, because of doubts about its truth. FTP, name this 1882 short story by Mark Twain about a British official who hunts down a title animal from Siam who was born with the name Jumbo.
"The Stolen White Elephant"
9

61776-)
This man claimed that Americans speak "incomparably better English than the people of the Mother country" in The American Democrat. In a novel by this author of The Spy, Major Duncan Heyward escorts the Munro girls from Fort Edward to Fort William Henry, and Chingachgook's son Uncas is the title character. For 10 points, name this author of The Last of the Mohicans.
James Fenimore Cooper
4

62246-)
This poet asked his wife for forgiveness in their old age in his three-volume work "Asphodel, That Greeny Flower." Another work of his personifies a city which "lives in the shadow of Passaic Falls." This author of Paterson claimed "no ideas but in things," a maxim borne out by poems which describe the title object "glazed with rainwater beside the white (*) chickens" and apologize for eating "the plums that were in the icebox." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Red Wheelbarrow" and "This Is Just To Say."
William Carlos Williams
3

62863-)
This novel's third chapter concerns a turtle which is flipped over while crossing a highway. In this novel, Rose of Sharon gives her milk to a starving man and the Christ figure Jim Casy is killed while agitating for better conditions for migrant workers. The central family of this novel includes the dimwitted Noah and the ex-convict Tom. For 10 points, name this Depression era novel about the Joad family's travels from Oklahoma to California, a work of John Steinbeck.
The Grapes of Wrath
3

62865-)
The main characters of this short story contemplate changing the card in the vestibule from reading "Dillingham" to simply "D." Madame Sofronie gives one of the main characters twenty dollars. That character then buys a chain for her husband's golden watch, and later receives a set of tortoise shell combs. Ironically, those items were purchased with the money obtained after Jim sold his watch and Della sold her long hair. For 10 points, name this short story by O. Henry.
"The Gift of the Magi"
3

62960-)
This author included a discussion of television and fiction, "E Unibus Pluram", in a collection of essays headlined by his account of a week-long Carribean cruise, A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again. Ennet House and the Enfield Tennis Academy are featured in a novel by this man which centers on the Incandenza family and contains over one hundred pages of footnotes. For 10 points, name this author of Infinite Jest, who hanged himself in 2008.
David Foster Wallace
3

63833-)
This author's 1996 essay from Harper's about the fate of the novel, "Why Bother?", was reprinted in his collection of essays How To Be Alone. This man's most recent novel was cited by Ruth Franklin as an example of sexism in book reviewing, and features the Minnesotan couple of Walter and Patty Berglund. His previous novel centered on the three children of elderly Alfred and Edith Lambert, and gained publicity due to its selection for and removal from Oprah's Book Club. For 10 points, name this author of Freedom and The Corrections.
Jonathan Franzen
3

64204-)
This writer began one poem describing the "various language" with which Nature speaks to those who hold "Communion with her visible forms." One of this author's poems asks the title creature why "dost thou pursue thy solitary way?" In another poem, this author instructed the reader "go not, like the quarry slave at night," instead urging the reader to "[lie] down to pleasant dreams." For 10 points, name this long-time New York Evening Post editor who wrote "To A Waterfowl" and "Thanatopsis," an early American poet.
William Cullen Bryant
3

65442-)
The protagonist of this novel loses $600 at the "Pot of Fire" to the glass-eyed Gus Sands, out of whose nose he starts pulling silver dollars. The protagonist of this novel dumps his 33-year-old girlfriend because she is already a grandmother. When Bump Bailey crashes into a wall and dies, the protagonist of this novel starts dating the seductive Memo Paris, although his true love is the wholesome (*) Iris Lemon. After being shot by Harriet Bird, the protagonist of this novel retires for fifteen years, when he joins the Knights along with his bat, Wonderboy. For 10 points, name this Bernard Malamud novel about baseball player Roy Hobbs.
The Natural
5

65950-)
In chapter 13 of this work, the main character is hailed as a “diplomat of business” much like Cecil Rountree after reading a paper to a convention, and in chapter 18 Howard Littlefield drags his daughter away from the protagonist’s son after seeing them dance at Ted’s party. One character accuses her husband of cheating on her, but after the protagonist argues that she is a nagging wife, Zilla agrees to allow her husband to go to Maine a week early. The main character of this novel has an affair with Tanis Judique after his best friend Paul Riesling is incarcerated for killing his wife. At the end of this novel, the title character realizes he loves his wife Myra and eventually returns to his traditional, conformist life. For 10 points, name this novel about a real estate agent in Zenith by Sinclair Lewis.
Babbitt
9

66487-)
This character removes the fading picture of his wife from his wall and keeps it in his shirt. Called salao by two enemies, this man later compares the incapacity of his hand to an athlete's bone spurs. Pedrico provides him with newspapers which report the daily (*) baseball scores. After sustaining an injury to his left hand, this character laments that that could have been avoided if his servant was with him to wet the coils, and the novel states that everything about this character is "old except his eyes...which remain cheerful and undefeated." In the final moments of the novel, he falls asleep dreaming of lions playing on the beach, as this DiMaggio-loving character is visited by his boy-servant Manolin in his Cuban home where he dies peacefully. FTP, name this fisherman who ends an 84-day dry spell by catching a huge marlin in Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea.
Santiago
7

66537-)
In this author’s first novel, the protagonist searches for her great-grandmother, one of Wittgenstein’s 
students. 
That book contains a character intending to grow to infinite size in Project Total Yang and is titled 
The Broom of the System. 
One scene written by him sees a jock strap full of tennis balls represent a MIRV 
ICBM uselessly attacking Israel. 
Another character in the same work by this author skydives while wearing 
a bird costume as a stunt for his team; he is named Orin. In that book by this author of (*) 
Consider the 
Lobster
, one character reads a proof of the Mean Value Theorem in one of the author's trademark footnotes, and 
Quebecois separatists in wheelchairs search out Hal Incandenza's father's masterwork, the titular Entertainment. For 
10 points, name this author of 
A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again
 and 
Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace
7

67212-)
In this novel a woman gives her life savings to men guarding a coffin meant to be buried in the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier after mistakenly believing the corpse is her son. A priest is sent to encourage the main character to escape from jail, but commits suicide after being shamed by the protagonist's humility. At the end of this novel, "The Runner" is attacked by a mob after he interrupts an official funeral by throwing the protagonist's medal at the caisson. The protagonist of this novel is betrayed by the soldier Polchek right before Pierre Bouc denies him three times. At the beginning of this novel both the German and French regiments miraculously refuse to attack, leading "The Marshall" to execute the main character for instigating peace. For 10 points, name this novel by William Faulkner that retells Christ's passion through the ordeals of a French corporal during World War One.
A Fable
8

67269-)
This author wrote a short story in which Little Jebb ends up going to prison for murder while his father lives to
be over a hundred. In that story, a nine year old boy named Seth reflects on a stranger who came to his parents'
house looking for work; it is revealed that Seth followed the stranger after that experience for many years. That
story, "Blackberry Winter," appears in a collection whose title story contains the emotional death of Mrs. Lockhart
and her perceived betrayal by her son Bolton. This author of "The Circus and the Attic" wrote one novel in which
Jerry Beaumont proclaims himself a knight and another in which Jerry Calhoun and Slim Sarrett are among the love
interests of Sue Murdock. For 10 points, name this author of World Enough and Time and At Heaven's Gate who
also created Jack Burden and Willie Stark in the novel All the King's Men.
Robert Penn Warren
8

67278-)
Jack Spicer wrote a 1968 poetry collection with this name, while a children's book by Frances Darling with this title details Reuben's fourth birthday and how he almost misses a family photograph.  Hal Blythe claims the most famous poem of this name is an exercise in perspective and should be read like a screenplay.  The central image of that poem is often interpreted as an intermediary between man and nature as well as being an archetype of purification, fertility, and growth.  This poem's central image may also signify female maturation contrasted with the innocent color of the nearby animals; it may have been inspired by gazing through the window of a dying girl's bedroom, which was “glazed with rain.” For 10 points name this poem about a titular conveyance adjacent to poultry by William Carlos Williams.
The Red Wheelbarrow
8

68005-)
One character in this work discusses devotion with Emily in telling how one of his ancestors is stitched in the Bayeux Tapestry. The imaginary Mr. Lies appears to one character in this work during a hallucination set in Antarctica, while the story of the 1906 San Francisco earthquake is retold to Belize in another part of it. The ghost of Ethel Rosenberg haunts the Mormon lawyer protagonist of this work, who had offered a post in the Justice Department to Joe Pitt, who turns it down but is left by his wife Harper. Louis leaves his AIDS-ridden partner Prior Walter at the end of the work, which stars Roy Cohn. "Millennium Approaches" and "Perestroika" are the two parts of, for 10 points, which play, subtitled "A Gay Fantasia on National Themes" and written by Tony Kushner?
Angels in America
7

68135-)
One scene in this work recounts the story of Shaughnessy's squabble with Harker, the Standard Oil millionaire. One character is accused of infecting a baby with measles in one scene of this work, while another scene sees Cathleen discusses one character's former dreams of becoming a professional pianist. One character in this play is an actor who resents being associated with the one role that made him famous, though he has just bought a new "vehicle" for himself. Throughout this play, Doc Hardy is called a "quack" for his treatment of James's wife, who declares that she will become a nun during a hallucination. For 10 points, Edmund's affliction of tuberculosis and Mary's addiction to morphine is revealed to the rest of the Tyrone family at the end of what play by Eugene O'Neill?
Long Day's Journey into Night
7

69277-)
Mailer's non-fiction novel The Armies of the Night is an example of this movement in writing of the late 1960s which broke the rules of standard journalism. Other exemplars of this movement include Tom Wolfe and Hunter Thompson.
New Journalism
6

69578-)
This work's third and final act begins with one character repeatedly toying with 
the ice in her glass and talking in a childish language. That third act sees one of 
its central characters chant the “dies irae” theme for his son, before it describes 
a boy from Western Union who had a learner's permit and died while swerving to 
avoid a porcupine. That act of this play is called “The
 Exorcism” and joins up with 
“Walpurgisnacht” and “Fun and Games.”
 According to its author, this play's title comes 
from a message he saw scrawled in soap on a bathroom mirror. For 10 points, identify 
this play about George's and Martha's games with Nick and Honey, a masterpiece of 
Edward Albee.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
6

69601-)
One part of this poem notes that the speaker witnesses  “suicide's” corpse with “dabbled hair,”  and he “note[s] where the pistol has fallen” Another section sees the speaker claim that “I am the teacher of athletes.” This poem repeats the words “Twenty-eight” for three straight lines as the narrator describes a group of bathers. It sees the speaker claim that “...every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you” and that the speaker “contains multitudes.” It begins with the statement “I celebrate” the titular figure and ends with the speaker claiming that he “stop[s] somewhere waiting for you.” Also describing a "barbaric yawp," for 10 points, name this often-revised poem from Leaves of Grass, by Walt Whitman.
"Song of Myself"
6

70249-)
One work by this author includes the political analyst Teddy Regler, who is loved by the dissatisfied Clara Veldt. In addition to A Theft, this author depicted Tommy Wilhelm's alienation from his father in Seize the Day. In another novel by this author, the title character recounts his marriage to [*] Madeline and writes a number of letters, while the protagonist of another novel is raised by Grandma Lausch. That novel opens with the line "I am an American, Chicago born." For 10 points, identify this author of Herzog and The Adventures of Augie March, a Jewish-American winner of the 1976 Nobel Prize in Literature.
Saul Bellow
3

70954-)
One part of this work contains an angel that forgets "the gold centre, the golden destiny," while another part describes "the President" who has apples on his table and who "ordains the bee to be immortal." Another part of this work describes a war between "the mind and the sky," and that third and final part describes a "mystic marriage in Catawba" between "a great captain and the maid Bawda." It compares a certain task with an Arabian astronomer saying "hoobla hoobla hoobla how." In another section, (*) Nanzia Nunzio confronts Ozymandias, while the final stanza describes how "gladly with proper words the soldier dies." It contains sections like "It must give pleasure" and "it must be abstract” and  attempts to elucidate a concept first established in the first line of its author’s “A High-Toned Old Christian Woman”. For 10 points, name this long poem that outlines Wallace Stevens’s theories on literature.
"Notes Toward a Supreme Fiction"
9

70998-)
In one of this author's final works, the titular piece of clothing creates a "world map" that calls to mind "Dead white males in malls. / Prayer breakfasts. Pay-phone sex"; that poem is called "Self Portrait in Tyvek Windbreaker". In another poem he describes putting together a jigsaw puzzle with his Alsatian governess, who he refers to as "Madamoiselle". In that poem, this author also describes how "the owlet umlaut peeps and hoots / Above the open vowel" while "ransacking Athens" and attempting to recall Rainer Maria Rilke's version of the Paul Valery poem "Palme". The first section of his best-known work begins with the pun, "Admittedly I err by undertaking / This in its present form", and that work goes on to envision W. H. Auden dictating his poems in the underworld and has a first part titled "The Book of (*) Ephraim". That most famous work was inspired by his partner, David Jackson, operating a Ouija board. For 10 points, name this author of “Lost in Translation” and “The Changing Light at Sandover”.
James Ingram Merrill
9

71342-)
The narrator tells the titular group that if their mother tells them to do something then it is wrong to say you won't in his "Advice to Little Girls". Other short stories deal with an item given to Mr. and Mrs. Richards that turns out to be lead while another work focuses on Jim Smiley and the titular creature named Dan'l Webster. Novels by this author include one co-written by Charles Warner that sees a family try to sell the land of Silas Hawkins and another where Hank Morgan wakes up to find himself in medieval England. In a more famous work, the Duke and the Dauphin parody Shakespeare, and the titular character says "All right, then I'll go to hell" when he decides to help the slave Jim. FTP identify this author of The Gilded Age and The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
Mark Twain (or Samuel Clemens, accept Advice to Little Girls until stated)
3

72480-)
In one work by this author, the Hersland family moves to Gossols after Alfred marries Julia Dehning. That novel is subtitled "Being a History of a Family's Progress" and is set in Bridgepoint, as is a work by this author whose sections about Anna Federner and Lena Mainz bracket a long novella about the depressed, consumptive mulatto Melanctha Herbert. This author of The Making of Americans and (*) Three Lives also penned the Cubist poetry collection Tender Buttons and the poem "Sacred Emily," which contains the line "Rose is a rose is a rose is a rose." For 10 points, name this author who coined the term "Lost Generation" and wrote of her time in France in an "autobiography" of her lover, Alice B. Toklas.
Gertrude Stein
5

72831-)
One character in this story is described as the sort of person who exchanges “market tips during dinner” and invites the “optometrist, the veterinarian, the real-estate dealer, and the dentist” to parties. That character, Grace Biswanger, calls the protagonist a “gate crasher.” The protagonist of this work has a beer can thrown at him while crossing Route 424, and is warmly greeted by the Grahams and the Bunkers. Near the end of this story, the protagonist is rebuffed by his former mistress, Shirley Adams, and then becomes anguished when he can no longer see the constellations of mid-summer. The protagonist of this story is returning from a party, but discovers an empty house without his wife or daughters. For 10 points, name this John Cheever short story about suburbanite Neddy Merrill, whose attempt to return home using his neighbors’ pools is a symbol of his mental breakdown.
“The Swimmer”
7

72935-)
One image in this poem describes men "who walked all night with their shoes full of blood" before finding a 
room full of "steamheat and opium."
 Another image contemplates men that "ate lamb stem of the imagination" and 
dreamed "of the pure vegetable kingdom."
 It compares sailors to "American seraphim" before describing a "blond 
and naked angel" in a Turkish bath.
 The second part of this poem recites names for one figure such as "the 
incomprehensible prison" and "whose fate is a cloud of sexless hydrogen" while the third part is a plea to another 
figure in Rockland--those figures are Moloch and Carl Solomon respectively.
 For 10 points, name this Ginsberg 
poem that begins "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness."
Howl
7

73001-)
A selection from this author's weekly letters to Betty Hester formed the bulk of this author's collection of letters The Habit of Being. She wrote about Sheppard's attempts to reform Rufus Johnson and contempt for his own son in "The Lame Shall Enter First". Another story details the friction between a grandmother and her son Bailey's family on the way from Tennessee to Florida for a vacation. A third story about parents and children depicts Julian's weekly trip on the bus taking his mother to a reducing class at the Y, and her casual racism and assumed superiority. For ten points, name this Southern author of "A Good Man is Hard to Find" and "Everything that Rises Must Converge".
Flannery O'Connor
7

73015-)
At one point in this work, one character fills a bathtub with water upon hearing a noise that is never fully explained. At the end, that protagonist dies and his child goes to live with another family, whose child was first encountered in a somewhat abandoned town. Earlier, those two protagonists went to the ocean, where a drifting boat was raided for supplies, where the protagonist leaves a revolver and is forced to go after it. This protagonist and his son find a home in which slaves are kept for sex, and in another episode the man and his son find an survival shelter and eat tomato sauce out of jars. The protagonist of this novel hears and speaks with the ghost of his wife, who had killed herself earlier rather than continue to live in the world. For ten points, name this work that focuses on the unnamed man and his son traveling along the titular highway in a post-apocalyptic world by Cormac McCarthy.
The Road
7

73071-)
This play opens with stage directions that the furniture, which was apparently once chosen with care, is now worn and faded. In one episode of this play, one of the characters threatens another with a spray gun which is filled with insecticide meant to kill cockroaches, while in another instance, a man named Joseph Asagai brings some clothing and music from his native Nigeria as gifts. One character doggedly pursues his dream of getting into the liquor business, but by the end of the play, he is told by Karl Lindner, a representative from the Clybourne Park Improvement Association, that it would be better if his family left the neighborhood because the rest of the community was made up of white working-class people. For 10 points, identify this play about the travails of Walter, Beneatha, and the rest of the Younger family, a work by Lorraine Hansberry.
A Raisin in the Sun
7

73298-)
This thinker focused on contemporary depictions of war in Regarding the Pain of Others; that work built upon an
earlier essay collection which compared the work of Diane Arbus to images documenting the Great Depression, On
Photography. This author wrote a short story about the responses of several New Yorkers when one of their friends
develops AIDS, entitled "The Way We Live Now." She is better known for an essay which states that "the whole
point of" the titular phenomenon "is to dethrone the serious," and declares its ultimate statement is "it's good because
it's awful." In addition to "Notes on 'Camp'," she wrote about the psychological damage caused by myths
surrounding tuberculosis and cancer. For 10 points, name this author of Illness as Metaphor and Against
Interpretation.
Susan Sontag
7

74130-)
Near the beginning of this work, the narrator looks down into a "black and lurid tarn" in an attempt to "annihilate [the] capacity for sorrowful impression" of the title object. This work's narrator remembers a "perversion" of "the wild air of the last waltz of von Weber" being played by a character who sings a song called "The Haunted Palace". Its narrator later reads a novel in which the knight Ethelred kills a dragon and receives a shield, Launcelot Canning's The Mad Trist. Late in this work, a pair of doors burst open to reveal Madeleine, after which Roderick dies of terror. For 10 points, name this story which ends with the collapse of the title structure, a work of Edgar Allan Poe.
"The Fall of the House of Usher"
7

75014-)
One poem by this author describes a collie supervising as "a lone traveller gives kisses and embraces to seven relatives" and ends with a description of "an acrid smell of gasoline." That poem spends six stanzas discussing the conversation of "grandparents' voices" during a "bus journey west." Another work by this poet discusses objects which "steer between the kite sticks of the Southern Cross," stating "it's hard to tell them from the stars." That poem describes "illegal fire balloons" which burn an "ancient owls' nest" and prompt "a weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky!" Another of her poems states that "everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow" and describes victory filling up the little rented boat after the "tremendous" title character is caught. For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Moose," "The Armadillo," and "The Fish."
Elizabeth Bishop
9

75594-)
One character in this work drops his towel to reveal boxer shorts covered in whales after brushing his teeth with 
soap. The protagonist of this novel plays a three day game of monopoly with Cheswick and Martini, before raising a
vote to allow watching the World Series, and organizing a fishing trip with the prostitutes Sandy and Candy. 
The 
narrator of this work is a Columbia Indian who smothers the protagonist with a pillow before escaping. For 10 
points, name this Chief Bromden narrated work in which Randle McMurphy is lobotomized after challenging the 
tyrannical Nurse Ratched at an Oregon psychiatric hospital, a novel by Ken Kesey.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
6

76374-)
Wallace Thurman satirized this author as Sweetie May Carr in Infants of the Spring. This author wrote a short story in which Joe Kanty's ghost pushes the title character into a circle-saw, as well as a novel about Reverend John Pearson, who survives a challenge from Felton Cozy before being forced out of the ministry for his affair with Hattie Tyson. In addition to “Spunk,” this author of Seraph on the Suwanee and Jonah's Gourd Vine created a character who runs away with Jody Starks before working in the Everglades with Tea Cake. For 10 points, name this Harlem Renaissance author who wrote about Janie Crawford in Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Zora Neale Hurston
7

76477-)
Works of literature mentioned in this novel include Out of Africa and Of Human Bondage, although the protagonist mentions that he wouldn’t want to call up Somerset Maugham. The protagonist is taken to Ernie’s nightclub by the taxi driver named Horwitz who refuses to have a drink with him. At one point the protagonist claims he had a clavichord operation after Maurice the elevator man gets him a prostitute and later, his sister repeatedly tells him that “Daddy’s gonna kill you”. A key symbol is the “partly frozen and partly not frozen” duck pond and the protagonist later heads to the apartment of his former teacher, Mr. Antolini. Towards the end of the novel, the Pency Prep protagonist goes to his sister Phoebe’s school and then goes to the Egyptian section of the Museum of Natural History. FTP, the phony hating Holden Caufield appears in what novel by J.D. Salinger?
The Catcher in the Rye
3

76496-)
An interpretation of this work notes that the sigh in the final stanza reveals a fraudulent position taken by the author. Other interpretations discuss the opening lines of Dante’s Inferno, “halfway through the journey of life”. Published in Mountain Interval, the author notes that he shall be telling his story “somewhere ages and ages hence” and ends the poem mentioning how his decision “has made all the difference.” “Leaves no step had trodden black” are contrasted to an area that “was grassy and wanted wear” and it starts by stating “two roads diverged in a yellow wood, and sorry I could not travel both”. FTP, the line “I took the one less traveled by” appears in what poem by Robert Frost?
The Road Not Taken
3

76538-)
The vice of the Mexican Cayetano in Montana leads to him being shot in this author’s The
Gambler, the Nun and the Radio while two waiters are at a café late at night in another work. In
addition to short story collections like In Our Time and Man Without Women, he wrote about
fishing boat captain Harry Morgan in one novel while Lady Brett Ashley falls in love with the
expatriate Jack Barnes in another work. Several of his stories feature the recurring character Nick
Adams and his last major work centers on the marlin pursuing fisherman Santiago. FTP, name
this American author of A Farewell to Arms and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest Miller Hemingway
3

76564-)
His experience in World War I was used in his works One Man's Initiation: 1917 and Three Soldiers. In another of his works, Ellen Thatcher has a pattern of marriage and divorce after her mother dies, titled Manhattan Transfer. He  describes the historical events surrounding the United States' entrance into World War I in Mr. Wilson’s War. In one of his series, he recounts twelve separate people's stories, with these characters occasionally meeting. Throughout the novels Woodrow Wilson is negatively depicted, while the characters are sympathetic towards the IWW. FTP, name this author of The 42nd Parallel, 1919, and The Big Money, his USA trilogy.
John Dos Passos
3

76584-)
In one scene, Cecil Jacobs ventures out and successfully scares two of the main characters. Later Cecil and one of the main characters visit a haunted house and miss a role in the pageant. During one scene, Mayella is asked how the right side of her face is bruised and it becomes clear she was beaten by her father. One recurring character runs away from his home in Meridan and earlier in the novel plays with the main characters every summer, named Dill Harris. At the end of the novel, Tom Ewell has been killed by a knife and Boo has revealed himself to be Arthur Radley. The main plot of the story, Tom Robinson’s rape trial, is shown through the perspective of Jem and his younger sister Scout.  FTP, Atticus Finch appears in what novel by Harper Lee?
To Kill a Mockingbird
3

76602-)
Mark Woolston is stranded on the ship The Rancocus in his novel The Crater. He wrote about a naval officer based on John Paul Jones who leads raids on the English coast in one work, while in another, he wrote about an American man accused of working for the British, Harry Birch. In other works, this author wrote about a foolish scientist named Dr. Bat and a group of squatters led by Ishmael and Esther Bush as well as a work in which Judge Temple is largely believed to have been based off of his father. In addition to writing novels like The Pilot and The Spy, he wrote a work taking place during the French and Indian war which sees chief Chingachgook and frontiersman Natty Bumppo. FTP, identify this author whose Leatherstocking Tales contains his The Last of the Mohicans.
James Fenimore Cooper
3

76654-)
He wrote an early work about a man named David Beeves who discovers he has great fortune
and can fix any problem. That work, The Man who Had All the Luck, was criticized for its
repetitious plot and was a complete failure. One work takes place inside the mind of a man
married to a woman named Maggie. That man, Quentin, is meant to be a reflection of the
author's failed marriage and appears in After the Fall. Another of his plays takes place in the
backyard of the Kellers’ and was inspired by a true story about a man who sold defective
airplane parts during World War Two. In addition to writing All My Sons, one of his works
concerns Biff, Happy and Willy Loman while another focuses on the Salem Witch Trials. FTP,
identify this American author who wrote The Death of a Salesman and The Crucible.
Arthur Miller
3

76692-)
A poem in this collection describes a figure who "promenades the dewy stones" whose dreams of the title plants are a "mighty thought" by a "mighty man". Another of this book's poems asks";Of the two dreams, night and day, / what lover, what dreamer, would choose the one obscured by sleep?"; and is addressed to a "dweller in the dark cabin". It contains a poem that begins a catalog of body parts with the line "here is an eye" and both begins and ends ";Out of the tomb we bring the body of Badroulbadour";. Its second poem brags that the soul "flies beyond the parks / and far beyond the discords of the wind" and mocks the "bland motions" bequeathed to the air by the title birds. ";Hymn from a Watermelon Pavilion"; and ";The Worms at Heaven'sGate"; are found in this collection, which opens with "Earthy Anecdote". For 10 points, name this collection that contains ";Invective Against Swans"; and ";Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird";, the first collection of Wallace Stevens.
Harmonium
8

76707-)
The central character of a poem by this man repeatedly imagines an object being shaken "for a flag on the bare hills" and murmurs"if I could bear you" to signify a sexual fantasy about the title character. This poet assured the reader "you are not Catullus, you know, / to lampoon these crude sketches of Caesar" in one poem, and asserted "meteors are not needed less than mountains" in another. He dubbed his personal philosophy "inhumanism," examples of which include the line "I'd sooner, except the penalties, kill a man than" the title figure of a poem that begins "The broken pillar of the wing jags from the clotted shoulder." This author of "Be Angry At the Sun" and "Shine, Perishing Republic" built a stone dwelling called Tor House in Carmel-by-the-Sea, and wrote a long narrative poem whose title character stomps Johnny to death before being shot by California. For 10 points, name this American poet of "Hurt Hawks" and "Roan Stallion." 
Robinson  Jeffers [or John Robinson  Jeffers]
8

76748-)
One character in this novel is aggrieved when his building's gimpy superintendent accuses him of having stolen two snow shovels, which he did in fact steal; later, those shovels are abandoned in a bar by Antoine because there is no room for them in his garbage-filled car. The protagonistof this novel rents a Lexus to visit an art installation in the desert that consists of 230 decommissioned Air Force planes. A video recording made by a child of a man driving a Dodge and being shot recurs in this novel; at one point, anchorwoman Sue Ann Corcoran receives a phone call on-air from the shooter, the "Texas Highway Killer". In the opening section of this novel, Jackie Gleason eats too many hot dogs and vomits on Frank Sinatra's shoes, while a reprint in Life magazine of Bruegel's Triumph of Death mesmerizes J. Edgar Hoover. Cotter Martin acquires the baseball from the "Shot Heard 'Round the World" in the first section of, for10 points, what 1997 novel about waste management executive Nick Shay by Don DeLillo? 
Underworld
8

76768-)
Lionel Trilling contrasted the liberal reception of this author with that of Henry James in his polemical essay "Reality in America." Stuart Sherman emphasized this writer's ethnic heritage in essays attacking his fiction as "barbaric" and exemplifying a kind of "animalism." This novelist is depicted as a boy "staring at the door of the crawfish's burrow" and as a man who "watched for men and women hiding in burrows of fate amid great cities" in a portrait of him as "the Poet" by his friend Edgar Lee Masters, who included it in the Spoon River Anthology. His early works were championed by his friend and sometimes editor H. L. Mencken, though they quarreled over his novel about the painter Eugene Witla, The "Genius". Sinclair Lewis said that "the first fresh air since Mark Twain and Whitman" was brought to America by this man's novel depicting the downfall of George Hurstwood. For 10 points, name this pioneer of American naturalism who wrote Sister Carrie.
Theodore Dreiser [or Theodore Herman Albert Dreiser]
8

76782-)
In this play, a man's sudden appearance in a doorway "as though from the air" interrupts an argument in which another man exclaims "The promise that a stallion gives a mare I gave that girl!" after grabbing his rifle. In this play's second act, a man observes "we are only what we always were, but naked now. Aye, naked! And the wind, God's icy wind, will blow!" as the curtain falls on a girl sobbing "I cannot, I cannot," over and over. In this play, a man is berated for suggesting other people "think to go like saints," after which he says, "I speak my own sins; I cannot judge another," then angrily cries out, "I have no tongue for it." That man in this play is hanged after insisting, "I have given you my soul; leave me my name!" The first act of this play ends with the gleeful cries of a fever-stricken Betty Parris, who rises from bed and joins Abigail in shouting accusations such as "I saw Goody Hawkins with the Devil!" For 10 points, name this play about John Proctor set during the Salem Witch Trials and written by Arthur Miller.
The Crucible
8

76835-)
This character conceives of conversation as a "served dessert" of ripe fruits to be piled atop a silver plate signifying his wife's mind. This man insults his daughter's suitor by offering him two fingers of his left hand in greeting as he stands warming his boot soles at the fireplace. While escorting his confidante to her carriage, this character observes that his love interest has "too many ideas," ominously adding, "Fortunately they're very bad ones." In an attempt to impress this character, a young man auctions off his valuable collection of bibelots (BIB-uh-"lows"), keeping only his prized enamels. This man warns of an irrevocable break that will occur if his wife returns to England to see her dying cousin who secretly secured her the fortune she inherited. This man tells Ned Rosier he is not rich enough to marry his illegitimate daughter Pansy. This character succeeds in marrying a woman who rejects both Lord Warburton and Caspar Goodwood. For 10 points, name this husband of Isabel Archer in The Portrait of a Lady.
Gilbert Osmond [or Gilbert Osmond]
8

76887-)
One character in this work claims to see the ghost of Miss Mabel and  earlier confesses to not living up to a promise he made to his best friend Eugene. That character, Reuben, kisses a character whom he starts calling "Spider." Early in this work, one character buries pigeons and pours their blood on top of the grave before he describes meeting a "shiny man" near Johnstown, learning that his nature is associated with "binding." In another scene from this play, one character relates a vision where bones walk across a sea and is forced to leave by (*) Seth Holly, the owner of the boarding house where this play is set. That character, Herald Loomis, travels along with his daughter Zonia in search of his wife Martha, finding his "song" with Bynum's aid in, for 10 points, which play of the Pittsburgh cycle wherein Bynum recites a song about a legendary character who enslaves people into his plantation, written by August Wilson?
Joe Turner's Come and Gone
9

77143-)
One character in this work reveals that he used to walk around with rubber balls in his hands and horse chestnuts and crab apples in his cheeks because he wanted apple cheeks, while another character in this work retorts, "I'd rather have peanut brittle crumbs on my face than flies in my eyes" after assuring another character that he didn't see flies in his eyes.  In addition to Orr, Havermeyer, and Appleby, one character in this work is informed of a promotion while playing basketball and later jumps out of his office window to avoid talking to a character who received a medal naked and who asks, "where are the Snowdens of yesteryear?"  For 10 points, name this work about Major Major Major, Doc Daneeka, Chief White Halfoat, and Yossarian, a novel by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22
7

78383-)
His characters include a man whose use of dynamite to fish goes unpunished until he runs afoul of a “fool dog” called Stormy Weather.  In addition to “The Passing of Cockeye Blacklock,” his creations include the bestial artist Vandover in Vandover and the Brute.  Other works include characters like Minna Hooven and Trina Sieppe, For ten points, name this American naturalist, whose Epic of the Wheat included The Pit and The Octopus, and who also wrote the tale of a San Francisco dentist, McTeague.
Benjamin Franklin Norris, Jr.
6

78415-)
This essay recalls the news item about six girls who attacked another girl on a subway because "she was stepping on their toes." Its author argues in one section that the only two choices that seem to be available are metaphorically equivalent to gangrene and amputation. The first section of this essay ends as the author recalls running away from the scene after being compelled by an unquenchable rage to throw a jug of water at a waitress in a fancy restaurant. Its third section takes place on its author's nineteenth birthday, after he has been called home for the birth of his baby sister. On that day, he attends the funeral of his (*) father, a minister whose bitterness and anger had distanced him from his children. After the funeral, the author relates how a policeman shooting a black soldier at the Hotel Braddock led to the 1943 Harlem race riot. This essay titles a collection that includes the essays "The Harlem Ghetto" and "Everybody's Protest Novel." For 10 points, name this essay by James Baldwin which draws its name from a Richard Wright novel.
"Notes of a Native Son"
9

78420-)
One subplot in this novel rests on the fact that Pepsi-Cola is a perfect anagram for Episcopal. One story told in this novel concerns a man who hired substitutes for both the Union Army and the Confederate Army during the Civil War, only to have those substitutes kill each other at Antietam. Â Its protagonist, who is obsessed with watching documentaries about fish on PBS, opens the novel hospitalized after being run over by his own car as he was attempting to hotwire it. Another of this novel's major plots concerns the elaborate modern sculpture Cyclone Seven, which sparks the "Save Spot!" movement when its sculptor secures its injunction preventing a trapped dog from being freed from it. Its protagonist thinks that the famous director Jonathan Livingston Siegal's blockbuster The Blood in the Red White and Blue ripped off his play Once at Antietam, which is heavily excerpted in this novel. This novels protagonist Oscar Crease is wrapped up in many of its dozens of (*) lawsuits, a fact presaged by the opening line "Justice? -- You get justice in the next world, in this world you have the law." For 10 points, name this fourth novel by William Gaddis.
A Frolic of His Own
9

78421-)
One speaker in this poem commands "O plunge your hands in water, plunge them in up to the wrist; stare, stare in the basin and wonder what you've missed." Its narrator describes the crowds he encounters as "fields of harvest wheat." The twelfth of this poem's fifteen quatrains invokes a nursery rhyme locale where "beggars raffle the banknotes and the Giant is enchanting to Jack." One speaker discusses a time when "the ocean is folded and hung up to dry and the seven stars go squawking like geese about the sky." This poem, which ends by noting that "the deep river ran on," takes the form of a dialogue between a man and the (*) "clock in the city," which begin to whirr and chime as he speaks. The narrator of this poem hears a lover declare "I'll love you, dear, I'll love you till China and Africa meet" after doing the title action "down Bristol Street." For 10 points, name this poem by W.H. Auden with an ambulatory narrator.
"As I Walked Out One Evening"
9

78424-)
The narrator of this poem has a dream or vision in which he sees "every fleck of russet showing clear." That narrator, who recognizes that "the essence of winter sleep is on the night," closes the poem by noting that "were he not gone, the woodchuck" could answer a question that he has. A chunk of this poem is devoted to a dream brought on after its narrator "cannot rub the strangeness from my sight" after looking at the world through the lens of a (*) pane of ice "skimmed this morning from the drinking trough and held against the world of hoary grass." Its narrator, who hears a rumbling sound from the cellar bin and has an ache in his "instep arch," announces that "I have had too much of [the title activity]: I am overtired." This poem opens with the image of a "barrel that I didn't fill" beside a "long two-pointed ladder sticking through a tree toward heaven still." For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem whose narrator describes his weariness after the "great harvest" of "ten thousand fruit to touch, cherish in hand, lift down, and not let fall."
"After Apple-picking"
9

78426-)
One character comforts a worried member of this family by telling her "The world owes all its onward impulses to men ill at ease. The happy man inevitably confines himself within ancient limits." Another woman in this family befriends a young Ned Higgins, the gingerbread addicted first customer at her store. This family's descent is tracked by a line of chickens that were once the size of turkeys but that have become scrawny and weak. One of this family's ancestors, Alice, was a talented harpsichordist whose notes are supposedly still heard after her death in a hypnosis accident. Another ancestor of the family was the subject of the invective (*) "God will give him blood to drink!" One member of this family spends thirty years in prison for killing his own uncle after being framed by another scion of this family named Judge Jaffrey. The young Phoebe's relationship with the daguerreotypist Holgrave continues this family's long connection to the Maule family, which began when Matthew Maule placed a curse on it after having the title real estate stolen by a Colonel's witchcraft allegation. For 10 points, name this family at the center of Nathaniel Hawthorne's The House of the Seven Gables.
Pyncheon family
9

78429-)
In a chapter from Understanding Fiction, Cleanth Brooks and Robert Penn Warren describe this figure as someone who refuses to yield to "spontaneous human emotion" as a defense against the "brute chaos of the world." Earl Rovit and Gerry Brenner divided this figure into a student and an instructor, labelling these people the "tyro" and the "tutor." This figure's existence was first posited in a critical book by Philip Young and was soon adapted in a biography by Carlos Baker. Traits associated with this figure include insomnia, an understanding that death is the end of existence which has been termed the (*) "nada" principle, and most importantly grace under pressure. Characters that have been associated with the exemplar aspect of this figure include Count Mippipopolous and Montoya, which characters that have been associated with the apprentice aspect include Manolin and Jake Barnes. For 10 points, name this figure, a seminal construct from Hemingway studies who lives his or her life according to a certain set of precepts.
Hemingway code hero [or Hemingway hero]
9

78433-)
In one story from this collection, the narrator abandons his girlfriend Michelle at an abortion clinic and becomes sexually attracted to a man he randomly follows to a laundromat. The line "And you, you ridiculous people, you expect me to help you?" ends its first story, in which the narrator wanders around a car accident scene with an unscathed baby after the family he is hitchhiking with gets into a serious accident. Â The protagonist of its most famous story wanders into a graveyard during a snowstorm and sees angels descending, only to realize that he is actually in a drive-in movie theater. That story opens with the protagonist and the orderly Georgie working at a hospital that admits a man with a knife stuck through his one good eye. This collection, which contains "Dirty Wedding," "Car Crash While Hitchhiking," and (*) "Emergency," takes its name from the Velvet Underground song "Heroin" and consists of eleven interrelated stories centering on an unnamed drug addict known as Fuckhead. For 10 points, name this short story collection by Tree of Smoke author Dennis Johnson.
Jesus' Son
9

78434-)
This poet wrote a single novel, a fictionalized account of a visit to the Puck Fair goat festival in Kerry, Ireland, titled The Orgy. This poet based one collection on an investigation conducted into incidents of silicosis among West Virginia miners. This poet declared "This is the cripple's hour on" the titular boulevard in the poem "Seventh Avenue," and described windows that "hold photography of the drowned faces the fat the unemployed" in a poem describing the reaction to the 1929 stock market crash, "Paper Anniversary." The Hawk's Nest disaster inspired this poet's collection The Book of the Dead, and broke through in 1935 with the publication of her first volume, Theory of Flight. This poet wrote that the title condition of one of her poems was equivalent to being "offered a gift," which was torment but whose refusal would result in "death of the spirit" in a poem that was adopted into the (*) Reconstructionist liturgy. For 10 points, identify this American poet of "To Be a Jew in the Twentieth Century."
Muriel Rukeyser
9

78436-)
The second part of this work uses the analogy of the formation of sulfrous acid in the presence of a platinum catalyst, and its final short section proposes to "halt at the frontier of metaphysics or mysticism." This work attacks what its author refers to as "the metaphysical theory of the substantial unity of the soul," arguing that the type of person about whom this work is written does not have a (*) "personality" but "a particular medium." According to this work, the possessor of the title quality must undergo "a continual self-sacrifice," and argues that "it is in this depersonalization that art may be said to approach the condition of science." This essay states that the first title concept "cannot be inherited, and if you want it, you must obtain it by great labour," and that its key component is "the historical sense." Arguing that the significance of a poet "is the appreciation of his relation to the dead poets and artists," for 10 points, identify this critical essay by T.S. Eliot. 
"Tradition and the Individual Talent"
9

78444-)
. The author of this work explained that in writing it, he hoped "to embody in modern termsÂ… a contemporary approximation of an ancient human culture," in his own critical work titled "General Aims and Theories." This work's third section opens with an address to the "capped arbiter of beauty" and the "religious gunman!" and consists of the first title character's reminiscences of having served as a pilot during a war. The second section of this poem imagines the title characters in a jazz hall where the narrator imagines that he has "known metallic paradises," and "seen the (*) incunabula of the divine grotesque." At the end of its first part, the first title character of this poem begs the second to "accept a lone eye riveted to your plane/ bent axle of devotion along companion ways." This poem is prefaced with a quote from The Alchemist and according to a letter sent by its author to Waldo Frank, its first part is intended as an "evocation of beauty," of its second title character. For 10 points, identify this epithalamic poem which transposes into modern times the love between two characters from a Christopher Marlowe play, written by Hart Crane. 
"For the Marriage of Faustus and Helen"
9

78445-)
This author combined two works Ravenswood and Dunelawn, into a single work titled Bad Habits, which contrasts two sanatoriums, one in which inmates are allowed to act out, and one in which they are kept in straightjackets. In one work by this author, Stephen comes over to Mendy's apartment but forgets to bring a prized recording of a Maria Callas performance of the title opera. In addition to writing The Lisbon Traviata, this author told the story of Maria Callas again in The (*) Master Class. Another of this author's plays is set on Fire Island on the Fourth of July, where the straight couple Sally and Sam entertain Sam's sister and her husband in a house that Sally inherited from her brother, who died of AIDS. This author of Lips Together, Teeth Apart, wrote about eight gay friends who spend holidays in the Hudson Valley house belonging to Gregory and his lover Bobby in another play, and also transposed the story of Jesus as a gay man in the titular 1950s Texas Town. For 10 points, identify this American playwright of Love! Valour! Compassion! and Corpus Christi.
Terrence McNally
9

78449-)
At one point in this novel, the narrator befriends a woman named Leto on whose urging the narrator briefly serves as a snake hunter. In this novel, the narrator and her lover occasionally play a game called "Filling in the White Spaces in the Dictionary," and this novel's narrator continuously invents titles for her major work such as "A Fete Worse Than Death," and "I Love a Demystified Thing Inordinately." This novel is set in the village of Tsau, which is organized as an experimental matriarchal society, and at its end, the narrator manipulates a girl named Bronwen into sleeping with her former lover after that lover is injured during a trip across the desert. Like the author's first work, a short story collection titled (*) Whites, this novel is set in Botswana, where the author served as a Peace Corps administrator. For 10 points, identify this novel which focuses on the unnamed narrator's affair with Nelson Denoon, which won the 1991 National Book Award for Norman Rush.
Mating
9

78453-)
The fifth scene of this play was originally excised from the published version and was first performed 33 years after this play's publication; that scene depicts this play's main character sitting in a cage labeled "the North American murderer," and eating eight courses of ham and eggs. The entire first scene of this play is a monologue by the wife of the main character, and in its last scene that main character is sent back by Lieutenant Charles, who tells the main character that he's a "slave to a contraption of steel and iron." The prostitute (*) Judy O'Grady attempts to have sex on the main character's grave in this play's sixth scene, while in its seventh scene the main character encounters Daisy, who had killed herself out of love for him. After being executed for the murder of his boss, this play's main character ends up in the Elyssian fields, which he is told are full of degenerates by a man named Shrdlu who had killed his own mother. For 10 points, identify this play about Mr. Zero, who is replaced by the title calculating apparatus, written by Elmer Rice.
The Adding Machine
9

78454-)
One poem in this collection shares a fireman's advice not to book a room above the fifth floor in any New York hotel, but then later imagines ascending past the five-hundredth floor while performing the title action. In addition to "Riding the Elevator Into the Sky," this collection contains a poem that begins "I am torn in two but I will conquer myself," titled "The Civil War," as well as a poem that describes death looking on "with a casual eye," as Nazis eat babies for breakfast, "After Auschwitz." The poet imagines eating herself "bite by bite" and sees herself as a "defaced altar" in a poem in this collection titled "The Sickness Unto Death," while in another poem she imagines being (*) "stamped out like a Plymouth fender into this world." The last poem of this collection has a title that claims that this collection's title action "endeth," and imagines the narrator docking at an island and playing poker with this collection's title figure, who wins despite the poet's royal flush because he holds five aces. This collection was preceded in publication by The Death Notebooks and followed by 45 Mercy Street, and was proofread by its author shortly before she committed suicide in 1974. For 10 points, identify this last poetry collection of Anne Sexton.
The Awful Rowing Toward God 
9

78657-)
One of this author’s poems opens with the line, “A Rock, A River, A Tree,” and urges the reader to say “very simply, with hope, Good morning.” In addition to “On the Pulse of Morning,” this author wrote a work in which the protagonist becomes pregnant after moving to San Francisco, having left her brother Bailey, Uncle Willie, and Momma in the town of Stamps, Arkansas. For 10 points, identify this author of the work Gather Together in My Name who wrote the autobiographical I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Maya Angelou
4

78676-)
In this play, Ezekiel Cheever reveals that one character often tends his farm on Sundays, and another is crushed by
rocks after asking for “more weight.” Giles Corey appears in this play, whose first act sees the slave Tituba reciting
spells over a fire in a forest with a group of girls including Mercy Lewis. Reverend John Hale advises Danforth and
Hathorne not to sentence one man after he confesses his affair with Abigail Williams. In this play's final act Rebecca
Nurse and John Proctor are carted away to be hanged. For 10 points, name this play about the Salem Witch Trials
written as a response to McCarthyism by Arthur Miller.
The Crucible
4

78694-)
This author wrote about a genocide in Nordhausen in the play Dance to Death,which was later published in the poetry collection Songs of a Semite. This poet of “By the Waters of Babylon” asserts, “We stand and gaze around with tearful awe” at the titular “consecrated spot” in a poem written in response to Longfellow called “In the Jewish Synagogue at Newport.” For 10 points, name this Jewish poet who wrote about a figure who was “not like the brazen giant of Greek fame” in her poem asking Europe for its "huddled masses," “The New Colossus.”
Emma Lazarus
4

80282-)
In one of this man's poems, the speaker asks Garcia Lorca what he is "doing down by the watermelons" and observes Walt Whitman "poking among the meats in the refrigerator." This poet of "A Supermarket in California" and "Sunflower Sutra" wrote a work that begins "Strange now to think of you, gone without corsets and eyes" called (*) Kaddish. His most famous poem represents industrialized America with the god Moloch and describes "angel headed hipsters." For 10 points, name this American beat poet most famous for Howl.
Irving Allen Ginsberg
3

82414-)
One poem by this man asks "When did you look at your skin and decide you were an impotent dirty old locomotive?" In another work, this poet questions a figure who watched "the boat disappear on the black waters of / Lethe?" before asking Garcia Lorca what he is doing down by the watermelons and noticing Walt Whitman eying the grocery boys. This poet of "Sunflower Sutra" and "A Supermarket in California" described his grief at the death of his mother Naomi in a poem titled after a Jewish prayer. For 10 points, identify this American poet of "Kaddish," who said he saw "the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness" in "Howl."
Irwin Allen Ginsberg
5

82482-)
In one section of this work, “Icicles filled the long window with barbaric glass.” In another 
section of this poem, the narrator is torn between the “beauty of inflections” and the “beauty of 
innuendoes” represented by a whistle and the time just after. This poem asks “the thin men of 
Haddam,” “Why do you imagine golden birds?” when the title creature “walks around the feet 
Of the women about you.” It opens by saying that the title animal is the “only moving thing” 
among “twenty snowy mountains.” For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poem which gives 
a certain number of viewpoints for examining the title bird.
"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"
5

82653-)
This author collected various ghost stories in his work Present at a Hanging. This author wrote about Burt Lassister finding out his house has been burned down a year ago despite having visited it the day before in one story, while another story details a robot killing its owner after being defeated at chess. In addition to "Three and One are One" and "Moxon's Master," he also wrote a story in which an Alabaman planter rushes home before the reader is informed that "Peyton Farquhar was dead." For 10 points, name this American author of "An Occurrence of Owl Creek Bridge" and The Devil's Dictionary.
Ambrose Bierce
5

82766-)
This novel opens with the arrival of a boarder named Henry Washington. One character writes a letter to God explaining why he gave the protagonist poisoned meat to feed to a dog. That character is a former Anglican priest and pedophile named Soaphead Church. The 10 year-old Freida is sister to one narrator, Claudia MacTeer, whose family takes in the protagonist after she is raped by her father Cholly. For 10 points, name this novel in which the chapter titles come from a Dick and Jane book, who have the title ocular feature that Pecola Breedlove seeks, a work of Toni Morrison.
The Bluest Eye
5

83138-)
Mr. Head disowns his grandson Nelson when he runs into a black woman's grocery bag in one short story by this author. In another work, the Bible salesman Manley Pointer steals the prosthetic leg of Hulga Hopewell. In addition to "Good Country People," this writer described the return to Taulkinham and the eventual death in a ditch of Hazel Motes in Wise Blood. A road sign provides the title in "The Life You Save May Be Your Own." John Wesley and June Star are killed by the Misfit in a short story by, for 10 points, what Southern Gothic author of "A Good Man is Hard to Find"?
Flannery O'Connor
4

83416-)
Miles, Dean, Serge and Leonard are four people in this novel who comprise a band called theParanoids. One character in this novel is a former Buchenwald doctor and take joy in prescribingLSD to housewives to solve their problems. In addition, another character in this novel is a Yoyodyne employee who tells the central character about the Peter Penguid society. The central character of this novel is seduced by a man in a hotel room with whom she watches old movies, but he gets tired of trying to remove her multiple layers of clothes. That character, Metzger, is in conflict with a guilt-wracked used car salesman who's married to the central character, Mucho. The title of this novel refers to the auctioning off of a horn stamp used by the Tristero organization to send mail. For 10 points, identify this novel about the quest to execute the estate of Pierce Inverarity by Oedipa Maas, a shorter novel by Thomas Pynchon.
The Crying of Lot 49
7

84419-)
His "caustic tales about American life" including The Willow Walk are collected in the posthumous collection Go East, Young Man. After using the pseudonym Tom Graham and publishing Hike and the Aeroplane, this author wrote a man who needed the warm nod of a ticket taker at a Nickelodeon in Our Mr. Wrenn. A better known novel sees Fran caught up in a vastly different lifestyle than her husband Samuel Dodsworth and another tells of Carol Milford and the town of Gopher Prairie. One of his best known works is a 1922 novel set in Zenith which concerns a titular real estate agent. For 10 points, identify this American Nobel Laureate, author of Main Street and Babbit.
Sinclair Lewis
3

85036-)
In one of his poems, the persona mentions a woman who "sang beyond the genius of the sea," and asks 
Ramon Fernandez about the lights on fishing boats.
 He begins another poem, one in which he observes the 
burning of "a furious star" in the west, a star "for fiery boys... and for sweet-smelling virgins close to them. 
by addressing the "regina of the clouds."
 FTP, identify this author of "The Idea of Order at Key West," "Le
Monocle de Mon Oncle," and "The Emperor of Ice Cream."
Wallace Stevens
4

87073-)
This man wrote "A Discourse on the Life and Genius of James Fenimore Cooper." His poems include one written upon the death of his wife, "October, 1866,"  and a poem that includes the lines "Thou comest not when violets lean/O’er wandering brooks and springs unseen," "To the Fringed Gentian." He is best-known, however, for a poem that asks "Far, through their rosy depths, dost thou pursue/Thy solitary way?" and a meditation on death written at the age of seventeen. For 10 points, name this author of "To a Waterfowl" and "Thanatopsis."
William Cullen Bryant
3

87758-)
One character attempts to sell chocolate-coated cotton, after buying an entire year’s worth of Egyptian cotton on impulse.The protagonist is part of the “two to the fighting eighth power” squadron stationed on an Italian island. Snowden’s death affects the protagonist greatly, leading him to ask, “Where are the Snowdens of yesteryear?” Aarfy rapes and murders Michaela, who represents pure innocence. M&M enterprises, run by Milo (*)Minderbinder, is really a black market racket. Its title refers to the illogical military rule that prevents Doc Daneeka from grounding the protagonist. In the final chapter, it is discovered that Orr has deserted to Sweden, which leads Yossarian to escape to Sweden himself. FTP, name this novel set in World War II by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22
4

87832-)
This poem’s last section begins, “Passing the visions, passing the night,” and the penultimate one mentions “battle­corpses, 
myriads of them” and “debris of all the slain soldiers of the war”. The 14th section proclaims, “praise! praise! praise!”, 
continuing the pattern of repetition established earlier in the poem by the eighth section, which begins nearly every line with 
“As”; the sixth, which begins nearly every line with “With”; and the second, which begins nearly every line with “O”. In 1946, 
this poem was set to music by Paul Hindemith. Its first line is the title of the poem, which is followed by “And the great star 
early droop’d in the western sky in the night”. Followed in the collection in which it appears by O (*) 
Captain! My Captain!, 
FTP, name this elegy for Abraham Lincoln written by Walt Whitman.
When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd
4

89025-)
This work ends after the narrator cuts off a man who starts talking about a "yeller one-eyed cow that didn't have no tail". The protagonist of this story is described as the type of person who "would bet you how long it would take" a straddle-bug "to get wherever he was going". One character in this story judged Parson Walker to be "the best exhorter" and owned a dog known for its vise-grip tactics named (*) Andrew Jackson. The narrator of this work seeks information on a man named Leonidas at Angel's Camp, where Simon Wheeler tells him a story in which quail shot is used to frustrate the efforts of a creature owned by Jim Smiley. For 10 points, name this Mark Twain short story about a bet involving Dan'l Webster, the title amphibian.
"The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County" [or "The Notorious Jumping Frog ofCalaveras County"; or "Jim Smiley and his Jumping Frog"; or "The Jumping Frog"]
5

89090-)
One of this author's poems dubs the title city a "morgue between Paris and Rome" and claims"Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children". Another of this author's poems declares "Thirtyyears now I have labored to dredge the silt from your throat" and describes how "a blue sky out ofthe Oresteia arches above us". The speaker is "at one with the drive into the red eye, the cauldron ofmorning" in the title poem of her second collection, which also contains "The (*) MunichMannequins". This author of "The Colossus" claimed that "every woman adores a Fascist" in a poemwhose title character is told "You do not do, you do not do". For 10 points, name this Confessional poetwho wrote Ariel, "Daddy", and The Bell Jar before her 1963 suicide.
Sylvia Plath
5

89110-)
In one work by this author, the producer Sturdyvant refuses to let Levee record his own songs, and Levee stabs a piano player. In another work by this author, Avery is unable to exorcise a ghost who is finally driven away by the use of an object that has the Charles family's history carved into it. This author of Ma Rainey's Black Bottom also wrote a play in which a man who is to be the first black garbage truck driver prevents his son Cory from being recruited to play college football and Rose learns that the title objects will not keep Troy faithful. For 10 points, name this playwright whose Pittsburgh Cycle includes The Piano Lesson and Fences.
August Wilson
6

89138-)
This author wrote "soul more white never through martyrdom of fire was led to its repose" in a poem about the death of his wife. A character described by this author of "Cross of Snow" ignores "the secret dread of the lonely belfry and the dead." In that work by this author, he promises "you shall hear" about a figure who instructs his friend to light "one if by land, and two if by sea." This author also wrote of a man who created the red-headed woodpecker before marrying Minnehaha in a work that opens "by the shores of Gitcheegoomee." For 10 points, name this poet of "Paul Revere's Ride" and "The Song of Hiawatha."
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
6

89156-)
While explaining the title of one poem by this man, the speaker says, "I have outwalked the furthest city light." This author of "Acquainted with the Night" also described a "dimpled spider, fat and white" in the poem "Design." The speaker of one of this man's poems complains about the damage done by hunting dogs and meets a man who repeats the line "Good fences make good neighbors." One of this man's speakers states "But I have promises to keep and miles to go before I sleep," and another notes that "two roads diverged in a yellow wood." For 10 points, name this poet of "Mending Wall," "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening," and "The Road Not Taken."
Robert Lee Frost
6

89170-)
In this novel, the protagonist finds one of his companions attempting to teach psalms to a pond full of beavers. Another character in this novel convinces the sage Tamenund to release all but one of his companions. The protagonist of this novel foils an ambush on a column of British soldiers because of his prejudice toward Hurons. This work contains a fictionalized account of a massacre at Fort William Henry, during which the daughters of Colonel Munro are abducted by Magua. For 10 points, name this historical novel by James Fenimore Cooper about the adventures of Natty Bumppo during the French and Indian War, whose title character is Chingachgook.
The Last of the Mohicans
6

89175-)
Throughout this play, its characters reference a biology professor who is working on genetic modification in the hopes of creating a race of people who look like him. A history professor in this play wrote a failed novel about a boy who kills both of his parents. During the second act, titled "Walpurgisnacht," one character announces a game of "Get the Guests," and Honey gets so drunk that she sleeps on a bathroom floor, allowing her husband Nick to seduce George's wife. For 10 points, name this Edward Albee play in which Martha responds "I am!" to the title bastardization of a nursery rhyme.
Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolf?
6

89195-)
In this work, a doctor with a mysterious past thinks that he will be lynched after he refuses to go to the scene of a fatal accident. One character takes his grandson out into the woods to sacrifice a lamb in a four-part section of this work. The life of Wing Biddlebaum, who moved and changed his name after being accused of molesting his students, is the subject of this work's section "Hands." In this work, the schoolteacher Kate Swift is seen praying naked through a hole in a stained glass window by Reverend Curtis Hartman. For 10 points, name this set of stories connected by the reporter George Willard, a book about small town life by Sherwood Anderson.
Winesburg, Ohio: A Group of Tales of Ohio Small-Town Life
6

89221-)
In one work by this author, Brenda breaks up with Neil after her parents find her diaphragm. This author also described a character who plants a bomb in a post office and then runs away from her father Swede Levov. This author of "Goodbye, Columbus" and American Pastoral wrote a novel about Athena College professor Coleman Silk, who is forced to quit his job after being accused of racism. The title character of another novel by this man narrates his story to Dr. Spielvogel. For 10 points, name this creator of the recurring character Nathan Zuckerman and author of The Human Stain and Portnoy's Complaint.
Philip Milton Roth
6

89229-)
A poet with this surname described how the sons of "Polacks nursing long beers in Titonsville" and "Negroes in the blast furnace at Benwood" become "suicidally beautiful" and "gallop terribly against each other's bodies" in a poem set "in the Shreve High football stadium." Another poem by an author with this surname describes a speaker who notices a "bronze butterfly" and a chicken hawk "looking for home" before candidly admitting "I have wasted my life." That author with this surname wrote "A Blessing" and "Lying in a Hammock at William Duffy's Farm in Pine Island, Minnesota," as well as The Branch Will Not Break. In addition to the poet James, another author with this last name wrote the short story "Big Boy Leaves Home," as well as a novel whose protagonist kills Bessie Mears and is represented by Boris Max after smothering Mary Dalton. For 10 points, identify this surname of the author of Native Son, Richard.
Wright
8

89263-)
A member of this family buys a little Italian girl some bread and is briefly arrested for kidnapping her. One member of this family is often referred to by another as smelling of trees after a scene in which she climbs a tree to look in on a funeral, revealing her "muddy drawers". That one later marries Herbert Head. Another member of this family, which employs (*) Dilsey Gibson, enjoys watching golfers at a nearby golf course because it reminds him of his sister, Caddy. Members of this family include alcoholic patriarch Jason, the mentally disabled Benjy, and the suicidal Quentin, who narrates most of Absalom, Absalom!. For 10 points, name this family created by William Faulkner, who also appear in The Sound and the Fury.
the Compson family
5

89266-)
One character in this novel repeats phrases like "the flag is America" and "Mexico is the walnut" while reading off his own hand. Another of its characters has hallucinations in which he imagines his companions being placed on meat hooks. That character offers this novel's protagonist some Juicy Fruit, revealing that he can speak. After being found in bed with the prostitute Candy following a fishing trip in this novel, (*) Billy Bibbit commits suicide. Its narrator refers to forces of authority as "the Combine" and, at its end, throws a control panel through a window in order to escape the control of Nurse Ratched, who had lobotomized Randle McMurphy. For 10 points, name this 1962 novel set in a mental hospital and written by Ken Kesey.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
5

89288-)
One character's inability to "make [him]self understood" in the chronologically last scene of this novel may be due to the effects of the drug DMZ. On Interdependence Day, that character watches a game of Eschaton degenerate into chaos after a heated argument over the map-territory relation. Another character develops an attraction to the P.G.O.A.T while serving as an on-site Staffer at Ennet House. Don Gately appears in this novel, in which Hugh Steeply is a cross-dressing agent who meets with a member of the Wheelchair Assassins and attempts to locate the titular "Entertainment." This work largely occurs during the Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment, and it is partially set at the Enfield Tennis Academy, where Hal Incandenza is a student. For 10 points, name this footnote-heavy magnum opus of David Foster Wallace.
Infinite Jest
7

89298-)
In one of this author's novels Hoyt Thorpe sees the Governor of California receive a blowjob from a college student, and that novel's title character has relationships with Adam Gellin and basketball star Jojo Johanssen at Dupont University. In another work, this writer analyzed a group looking for "inter-subjectivity" who painted the word "FURTHER" on the destination placard of their vehicle. This author of I Am Charlotte Simmons wrote a book in which the journalist Peter Fallow publicizes the hit-and-run victim Henry Lamb to pin the crime on Wall Street banker Sherman McCoy, and he wrote about Ken Kesey leading the "Merry Pranksters" in The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test. For 10 points, name this champion of "New Journalism" who wrote The Bonfire of the Vanities.
Tom Wolfe [do not accept Thomas Wolfe]
7

89317-)
This poet described muscles as "living marbles", the heart as a "throbbing slave", and the lungs as "hidden caves" in his poem "The Living Temple." This poet also wrote about a "sad and wan" old man who wore "the old three-cornered hat, and the breeches, and all that." Major Thomas Melville is the subject of this poet's "The Last Leaf". One of his poems contrasts "the harpies of the short" with "the god of storms, the lightning and the gale" and begins "ay, tear her tattered ensign down!" The titular creature of another of his poems is a "ship of pearl" that conveys the "heavenly message" of "build thee more stately mansions." For 10 points, identify this author of The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table as well as the poems "Old Ironsides" and "The Chambered Nautilus."
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
7

89318-)
This thinker proposed self-purgation, return from the dead, and completion as three ways to complete a certain task; he called them askesis, apophrades, and tessera. This man suggested that the earliest books of the Bible were written as literary texts by a woman in The Book of J. Clinamen was among the six revisionary ratios through which he claims writers perform creative misprision. He applied Isaac Luria's theory of creation to expand upon an earlier work in his A Map of Misreading. This thinker described the "agon" by which a writer overcomes the title phenomenon in a work that uses Milton and the Romantics to explain the poet's attempt to escape a literary shadow. For 10 points, name this Yale literary critic who wrote Kabbalah and Criticism and The Anxiety of Influence.
Harold Bloom
7

89335-)
One of this author's novels is interspersed with entries from a coroner's notebook, and in that novel the protagonist uses a Trav-L-Aire to search for Sutter Vaught. Another of this author's novels features a protagonist who escapes Paradise Heights before a Bantu revolt and invents a "caliper of the human soul," the Ontological Lapsometer. In addition to that novel about Dr. Thomas More, this man wrote about Will Barret in The Last Gentleman.  This author of Love in the Ruins also wrote about a man who has an affair with his secretary Sharon Kincaid and takes his cousin Kate Cutrer with him on a trip to Chicago from their home in New Orleans. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Binx Bolling's love of the cinema in The Moviegoer.
Walker Percy
7

89353-)
One poem by this author describes a "magical sad sound / Transforming all," that changes a "fair isle" with "flower-enameled shore" into "accursed ground."  Another poem by this author explains the "double life" of the title entity, describing its corporeal form that is named "No More," as well as a form that should cause the addressee to "commend thyself to God!" This author wrote a poem "to Zante" and one titled "Silence," as well as a poem that describes its title concept as a "Vulture, whose wings are dull realities" and asks whether it has not "driven the Hamadryad from the wood" after calling it a "true daughter of Old Time."  In addition to writing a "Sonnet to Science," this poet evoked "Night's Plutonian shore" and lamented his lost love Lenore in a poem about a creature that cries "Nevermore."  For 10 points, name this author of "The Raven."
Edgar Allen Poe
7

89387-)
In one of this author's works, two men threaten the protagonist for not buying Liberty Bonds, and she works at a newspaper with Mary "Towney" Townsend.  In a story by this author, the protagonist dreams that she is called a cannibal and accused of eating the "body and blood" of a man she had given a lethal dose of sleeping pills to, the prison inmate Eugenio.  In that story, Laura is courted by the disgusting Braggioni, a Mexican revolutionary.  Adam Barclay dies during the 1919 influenza epidemic in this author's novella about Miranda Gay.  In another of her works, the title vessel sails from Mexico to Germany and allegorically represents the moral decay on the eve of Nazi Germany's rise.  For 10 points, name this author of "Flowering Judas"; Pale Horse, Pale Rider; and Ship of Fools.
Katherine Anne Porter
7

89417-)
In one poem, this author wrote that "there are a hundred places where I fear to go" due to memories of a departed lover. In another poem, this author declared fortunate those who "have heard [beauty's] massive sandal set on stone." This author of "Time Does Not Bring Relief: You All Have Lied" and "Euclid Alone Has Looked On Beauty Bare" wrote in another poem that "into the earth I sank" until she "six feet under ground did lie."  In that poem, she wrote that "infinity pressed down upon the finite Me" and began by saying that "all I could see from where I stood was three long mountains and a wood." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" and "Renascence" who wrote, "My candle burns at both ends" in A Few Figs From Thistles.
Edna St. Vincent Millay
7

89454-)
One character in this story says "I'm Popeye the Sailor Man" to prove that she can talk.  Another character in this story takes prescription medicine that makes him want to sleep in a hammock, and that character wears a flesh-colored kimono that belongs to his niece. One place in this story is described as "next to smallest" in Mississippi, and the protagonist's grandfather is insulted when he is told she wants him to cut his beard.  A two-year-old girl in this story is claimed to be adopted, but the protagonist believes that Shirley T. is the daughter of her sister and Mr. Whitaker.  Mama and Papa-Daddy turn against the protagonist due to perceived slights.  For 10 points, name this short story in which Stella-Rondo's mischief convinces Sister to move to the title location, written by Eudora Welty.
"Why I Live at the P.O."
7

89463-)
One character in this novel has a rubber reproduction of a dead horse in his swimming pool. The protagonist of this novel sees a pornographic film at Mrs. Jenning's brothel, where he hears Mary Dove singing, and he divides people into two classes, one of which is people who have come to this novel's setting to die. A cock fight in this novel is run by Miguel, and a central scene is the funeral of the failed vaudeville clown Harry. A former bookkeeper from Iowa attacks Adore Loomis at the end of this novel, sparking a riot outside Kahn's Persian Palace Theater. The protagonist of this work pursues Faye Greener and is trying to paint The Burning of Los Angeles. For 10 points, name this novel about Homer Simpson and Tod Hackett, set in Hollywood and written by Nathanael West.
Day of the Locust
7

89482-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

89495-)
In one scene of this play, a girl says she can't study because the moonlight is "terrible," though later in that scene she tells another character that the moonlight is "won-derful."  In this play, a letter address includes "Earth", "the Universe", and "the Mind of God."  The hymn "Blessed Be the Tie that Binds" is sung in each act of this play. A church organist in this play hangs himself after repeatedly showing up drunk to choir practice.  Simon Stimson appears in this play, in which one character takes over his Uncle Luke's farm after being married in act two.  In act three of this play, another character attempts to relive her twelfth birthday, and that act centers on a funeral as the dead watch.  This play has notably spartan set decoration and is narrated by the Stage Manager.  For 10 points, name this play about George Gibbs and Emily Webb, set in Grover's Corners and written by Thornton Wilder.
Our Town
7

89521-)
In one of this author's stories Lionel throws a pair of expensive goggles into a lake before revealing that the maid Sandra called his father a kike. In another of this author's stories a young boy asks the riddle "what did one wall say to the other wall?", and that story ends with the protagonist returning to sanity after opening a package containing a broken wristwatch. This author of "Down at the Dinghy" wrote about the friendship between an American soldier and a British girl in "For EsmÃ©-with Love and Squalor."  He also wrote about a man who goes into the ocean with young Sybil Carpenter before returning to his wife's hotel room and shooting himself.  That story about Seymour Glass is "A Perfect Day for Bananafish."  In his only novel, the protagonist goes on a date with Sally Hayes and visits his sister Phoebe.  For 10 points, name this man who created Holden Caulfield in Catcher in the Rye.
J. D. Salinger
7

89540-)
In one poem by this author, some figures are described as possessing "thin blood" that "pulse pizzicati of Hosanna," while another figure is accompanied by "attendant Byzantines" who cause a "noise like tambourines." That poem by this author argues that "beauty is momentary in the mind," but "in the flesh it is immortal," and claims "music is feeling, then, not sound" before comparing it to "the strain waked in the elders by Susanna."  Another poem by this author asks "let the lamp affix its beam" and "let the boys bring flowers in last month's newspapers."  This poet of "Peter Quince at the Clavier" wrote about "the roller of big cigars," who is bid to "whip in kitchen cups concupiscent curds" in his poem "The Emperor of Ice-Cream."  For 10 points, name this American modernist poet of "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird."
Wallace Stevens
7

89568-)
In a short story by this author, the narrator kicks a dead baby and, after opening a safe, witnesses a night watchman being beaten by police and committing suicide. That character digs into rooms from the sewers as he hides from the police. This author of "The Man who Lived Underground" was criticized by a contemporary in the essay "Everybody's Protest Novel." He wrote a novel that opens with a four year old setting a house on fire, and that character joins the Communists in the section "The Horror and the Glory." Another novel of his sees a body hidden in a furnace after the accidental smothering of Mary Dalton by black chauffeur Bigger Thomas. For 10 points, name this author of Black Boy and Native Son.
Richard Wright
7

89593-)
In one of this man's novels, a character is afraid of the "Under Toad," and that novel contains a short story largely concerning a bear on a unicycle. In that novel by this man, former football player Roberta Muldoon gets a sex change and defends the Ellen Jamesians' decision to bar one character from attending his mother's funeral. In another of his novels, Wally Worthington returns paralyzed from Burma and Rose Rose is raped by her migrant worker father, after which she receives an abortion from Homer Wells. This author wrote a novel in which the title character marries Helen Holm and writes "The Pension Grillparzer." For 10 points, name this American author of The Cider House Rules and The World According to Garp.
John Irving
7

89602-)
One character in this novel sparks conflict with her family when she uses her role as Olivia in a university production of Twelfth Night to meet a love interest who is playing Malvolio. Another character in this novel aborts her second baby because she isn't sure if its father is her husband or her lover Billy Irani. This book depicts the real-life passage of the Zamindari Abolition Act and the election of 1952, whose winner rallies the Muslim electorate by announcing that Maan has murdered Firoz. A dog with the cute name Cuddles is owned by Mr. and Mrs. Justice Chatterji in this novel. Much to the dismay of readers everywhere, Kabir does not turn out to be the title character of this nearly 1500-page novel. For 10 points, name this novel in which Rupa Mehra tries to arrange Lata's marriage, written by Vikram Seth.
A Suitable Boy
7

89621-)
This author wrote about a teenage evangelist who has an incestuous relationship with her father in a novel focusing on soul singer Hall Montana.   In another novel by this author the Rivers family struggles to free a man falsely accused of rape, and Tish is pregnant with Fonny's baby.  In addition to Just Above My Head and If Beale Street Could Talk, this author wrote a novel in which the title character is guillotined for murdering the Parisian bar owner Guillaume.  In another novel by this author, one character abandons his illegitimate son Royal, and the second part of that novel is composed of three prayers given in the Temple of the Fire Baptized church.  That novel is set on the fourteenth birthday of the protagonist, John Grimes.  For 10 points, name this African American author of Giovanni's Room and Go Tell It on the Mountain.
James Baldwin
7

89644-)
This man is abandoned in a restaurant when Letta and Miss Forsythe distract his two companions. During World War II, this man gave a pair of nylon stockings to his mistress. The words of this man's older brother, "When I walked into the jungle, I was seventeenÂ…when I walked outÂ…by God, was I rich!" haunt this husband of the devoted Linda during his series of flashbacks, which also include his refusal to make his son study math in order to win a football scholarship. This man decides to commit suicide to leave a $20,000 life insurance policy to his sons Biff and Happy. For 10 points, name this title character of Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman.
Willy Loman [prompt on Loman]
6

89664-)
In this novel, one character sends his illegitimate son Chicken George to England to settle a cockfighting debt. The central family of this work moves to Henning, Tennessee, the final setting of this novel in which one character has a foot amputated after attempting to flee Spotsylvania. Tom Lea's son tells the story of the first major character of this novel after the birth of each of his children and later has to leave North Carolina because of a law about the re-enslavement of free blacks. In this novel, Dr. Waller sells off Kizzy, the daughter of the Gambian Muslim Kunta Kinte. For 10 points, name this fictionalized account of the heritage of Alex Haley.
Roots: The Saga of an American Family
6

89678-)
In this novel, the janitor Burma Jones writes the name of his cruel employer's nightclub on the back of the pornographic photos she sells, leading to her arrest. The protagonist of this novel works with the elderly Miss Trixie before he is fired for attempting to lead a factory strike. This work's protagonist also fails in his work as a hotdog salesman because he eats more than he sells. When his mother wishes to commit him to an asylum, the Dr. Nut soda and Boethius-loving protagonist of this novel is rescued by his girlfriend Myrna Minkoff. For 10 points, name this novel by John Kennedy Toole about Ignatius J. Reilly.
A Confederacy of Dunces
6

89701-)
This character is described as having "a crucifixion in his face." This man is told that before he dies he will see two hearses and that only hemp can kill him. This man who threw away his pipe because of its inability to soothe him hires the sinister Fedallah and his men to supplement his crew. After Stubbs leaves a little boy out in the sea, this character begins to look after the crazed Pip. During a fight about leaking oil casks, this man points a musket at his first-mate, Starbuck. This man offers a gold coin as a reward before making Daggoo, Tashtego, and Queequeg drink from their harpoon tips. For 10 points, name this peg-legged captain of the Pequod who tirelessly hunts Moby Dick.
Captain Ahab
6

89730-)
In this novel, the only survivor of a fire that destroys a house designed by a French architect is Jim Bond. Henry unknowingly meets his half-brother, the son of Eulalia, while attending college in this work. Wash Jones murders the husband of Ellen Coldfield in this novel, in which Charles Bon becomes engaged to Judith before the revelation of both his relation to her and his black ancestry. This novel is narrated to Shreve, the Canadian Harvard roommate of Quentin Compson. For 10 points, name this novel by William Faulkner about Thomas Sutpen.
Absalom, Absalom!
6

89748-)
This poem's twenty-fourth section describes how "seas of bright juice suffuse heaven" anddeclares "Unscrew the locks from the doors! / Unscrew the doors themselves from their jambs!" Itstwenty-first section begins with its speaker declaring that he is "the poet of the Body" and the "poetof the Soul." A child asks "What is the (*) grass?" in the sixth section of this poem, whose fifty-secondand final section ends with the line "I stop somewhere waiting for you" after the speaker sounds his"barbaric yawp" over the "roofs of the world." When it was published in 1855, it took up over half of thepages of its author's collection Leaves of Grass. For 10 points, name this long poem by Walt Whitmanwhich begins "I celebrate myself and sing myself."
"Song of Myself"
5

89767-)
One character in this work receives a scar on his forehead while moving a boulder; that characterlater gives his father a knife, which is rejected in favor of another character's gift of a stray puppy. Inthis book, the Chinese servant Lee opines that the "most important word in the world" might be theHebrew word "timshel", meaning "thou mayest." This work opens with a long description of the (*)Salinas Valley. Another character in this work drops out of Stanford after his twin brother shows him theirmother, Cathy Ames, working in a brothel. Those brothers, Aron and Caleb, like their father Adam and hisbrother Charles, represent the Biblical Abel and Cain. For 10 points, name this John Steinbeck novel aboutthe tragic history of the Trask family
East of Eden
5

89792-)
In this novel, the protagonist's love interest first appears as an anonymous girl in a red scarf at a church dance. That girl rejects an advance by Denis Eady before the protagonist escorts her home. While the wife of this novel's title character is away seeing a doctor, her favorite pickle dish is broken. This story is told as a flashback, as the narrator tries to uncover details about a man injured in a "smash up" in Starkfield. That man is the husband of the invalid Zeena, but he falls in love with her cousin, Mattie Silver. For 10 points, name this novel by Edith Wharton in which the title character and his lover attempt to commit suicide by crashing a sled.
Ethan Frome
6

89802-)
In one work by this man, Tobin, Toadvine, and a runaway called "the kid" join the Glanton gang. This man described the experiences of the young Lacey Rawlins, Jimmy Blevins, and John Grady as they travel south to seek work in a novel that is part of his Border Trilogy. Another work by this man follows an unnamed father and son on a journey in a post-apocalyptic world. In a novel by this author of The Road, Llewelyn Moss is pursued by the sociopathic hitman Anton Chigurh after he recovers money from a drug deal along the border in Mexico. For 10 points, name this American author of Westerns such as All the Pretty Horses and No Country for Old Men.
Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy, Jr.]
6

89817-)
In this work, Braxton Bragg Underwood protects another character by aiming a shotgun from the window of his office. That character in this novel is revealed to have once been nicknamed "one-shot" when he is asked to kill a rabid dog. Two characters in this work attend church with Calpurnia and befriend a summertime visitor to Maycomb named Dill. In this work, Bob Ewell accuses Tom Robinson of raping his dauther Mayella, and he attacks two children who are rescued by "Boo" Radley. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Scout about her father Atticus Finch, which was written by Harper Lee.
To Kill a Mockingbird
6

89841-)
One character in this work makes up for fainting by insisting that a dentist remove a perfectly good tooth. Another character in this work wears his girlfriend's pantyhose around his neck for luck. The religious Kiowa attempts to stop the narrator of this collection from obsessing over the possible love of mathematics of a boy a butterfly lands on in "The Man I Killed." In this collection's title story, Jimmy Cross blames himself for the death of a man who was shot while Cross, the commanding officer, could think only of his unrequited love. For 10 points, name this Tim O'Brien short story collection set during the Vietnam War whose title objects include morphine, M&amp;Ms, and fear.
The Things They Carried
6

89867-)
In one of this man's stories, subtitled "A Chapter from an Abortive Romance," the title character searches for the "unpardonable sin" and transforms into a lime skeleton. This author of "Ethan Brand" also wrote a story in which Baglioni provides Giovanni with an antidote that kills Beatrice, whose breath makes flowers wither. In a novel by this author of "Rappaccini's Daughter," Arthur Dimmesdale climbs onto a scaffold to admit that he is Pearl's father and thus the cause of Hester Prynne's cloth "A." For 10 points, name this American author of The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
6

89870-)
Ordinary people in one of this man's works "went without the meat and cursed the bread." The title character of another of this man's poems "mourned Romance, now on the town and Art, a vagrant." One of his poems describes a "child of scorn" who "dreamed of Thebes and Camelot, and Priam's neighbors" but "called it fate and kept on drinking." Another work by this man describes a "gentleman from sole to crown" who "one calm summer night went home and put a bullet through his head." For 10 points, name this American "poet laureate of unhappiness" and author of "Miniver Cheevy" and "Richard Cory."
Edwin Arlington Robinson
6

89910-)
This author wrote "To live in mankind is far more than to live in a name" in his elegy upon thedeath of John Altgeld, "The Eagle That is Forgotten." This author helped Langston Hughes becomefamous by trumpeting his discovery of Hughes in a Washington D.C. restaurant. However, this poetwas accused of racism for writing a poem which repeats the refrain "Mumbo-jumbo will (*) hoo-dooyou" and describes the title river "creeping through the black / cutting through the jungle with a goldentrack." Another of this author's poems repeatedly asks "Are you washed in the blood of the lamb?" anddescribes the founder of the Salvation Army arriving in Paradise. For 10 points, name this American poetwho wrote "The Congo" and "General William Booth Enters Into Heaven."
Vachel Lindsay [or Nicholas Vachel Lindsay]
5

89934-)
The title of one of this author's stories references an elderly rabbit created by Howard R. Garis.He also created a character who brings the Russian religious text The Way of a Pilgrim to a date withher college boyfriend Lane Coutell and faints after explaining the Jesus Prayer. He wrote of a manwho wears a bathrobe so no one will stare at a tattoo he doesn't have; that man shoots himself whilesitting next to his wife Muriel in "A (*) Perfect Day for Bananafish." His most famous creation, who usedto date Sally Hayes, cares deeply for his little sister Phoebe but not at all for the phonys at Pencey Prep. For10 points, name this author who created the Glass family and penned Franny and Zooey and The Catcher inthe Rye.
Jerome David Salinger
5

89935-)
This poet de-romanticized Arthurian legend in his narrative poem Merlin. The speaker of one ofthis man's poems proclaims "Out of a grave I come to tell you this" and asserts "if you listen she willcall" after describing how "the vines cling crimson on the wall". Another of his poems describes"Romance, now on the town, and Art, a vagrant" and tells of a character who "loved the (*) Medici,albeit he had never seen one". In addition to writing a poem whose title character is told "Go to the westerngate" and a poem about a "child of scorn", this man penned a poem about a man who, despite being "richerthan a king", went home one summer night and shot himself. For 10 points, name this poet of "LukeHavergal", "Miniver Cheevy", and "Richard Cory".
Edwin Arlington Robinson
5

89948-)
This author wrote a story that climaxes with Sheldon offering Chinese egg rolls to his outraged superior officer. This author of "Defender of the Faith" wrote a novel whose protagonist is the son of a glove manufacturer and the husband of Dawn, a former Miss New Jersey. In one of his novels, the teenager Merry plants a bomb and becomes a fugitive, devastating her father, Seymour "The Swede" Levov. This man created the recurring character Nathan Zuckerman, and he also wrote about a "mother-addicted" bachelor delivering a massive monologue to his psychoanalyst. For 10 points, name this author of American Pastoral and Portnoy's Complaint.
Philip Milton Roth
7

89955-)
One of this man's novels contains the quote, "The past is never dead. It's not even past." He ended one story with a doe being illegally killed by Carothers at a hunting party intended to unite the two branches of his family. Lucas Beauchamp stops searching for his ancestor's family fortune in this author's story "The Fire in the Hearth." Lion and Boon Hogganbeck work together to bring down the title figure in another story by this author. Several alderman decide to sprinkle lime on the property belonging to Homer Barron's lover in another story by this author, whose "Delta Autumn" is a sequel to his story about the hunt for Old Ben, which includes Ike McCaslin. For 10 points, name this author who wrote "The Bear" and "A Rose for Emily" along with novels like The Sound and the Fury.
William Cuthbert Faulkner
7

89979-)
Prep school students submit poems to a contest for a private audience with this author at the beginning of Tobias Wolff's Old School. This poet described how an "interrupted cry came over houses from another street, but not to call me back or say goodbye" in a poem in which the speaker says, "I have outwalked the furthest city light." In another poem, the speaker claims that "one could do worse than be a swinger of" the title trees. This poet of "Acquainted with the Night" and "Birches" contrasted two ways that the world might end in "Fire and Ice." For 10 points, name this American poet who concluded, "And that has made all the difference," in "The Road Not Taken."
Robert Lee Frost
7

89992-)
This poet repeated the line "Weave, weave the sunlight in your hair" in "La Figlia che Piange." One of this author's poems ends with the speaker wondering, "And should I have the right to smile?" after the title character declares, "I will sit here, serving tea to friends." The speaker of another of his poems hears "the mermaids singing, each to each," and says "I do not think that they will sing to me." In that poem, this author of "Portrait of a Lady" compares the evening to "a patient etherized upon a table" and describes a room "where women come and go, talking of Michelangelo." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock."
Thomas Stearns Eliot
7

90006-)
This character never tells the narrator whether he winked or not when they first met at Slade's. He claims that man "passeth from the stink of the dydie to the stench of the shroud" when he is told there may not be something to find out about another character. This character never drinks until he learns he is a pawn of Harrison. After that revelation, this man goes on a drinking spree and delivers a speech accusing Tiny Duffy of being "Judas Iscariot" and throwing his support behind MacMurfee, who wins the election. He is shot by the man he hired to direct his new hospital after that man learns this character had an affair with his sister Anne. For 10 points, name this boss of Jack Burden and Southern governor depicted in All the King's Men.
Willie Stark [or Willie Stark]
7

90023-)
In one of this author's works, a character declares his sympathy with those "who like to stay late atthe cafe" and "do not want to go to bed" and explains that in the darkness, all is "nada". Onecharacter asks "Will you please please please stop talking?" while drinking Anis del Toro in a storyby this man in which the American tries to convince Jig to have an abortion. The title character'swife (*) Margot falls for the hunter Robert Wilson in a short story by this author about a coward on alion-hunt. This creator of Nick Adams wrote such stories as "A Clean Well-Lighted Place", "Hills LikeWhite Elephants", and "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber". For 10 points, name this author of AFarewell to Arms and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest Miller Hemingway
5

90036-)
After pushing the protagonist of this work's car into a ravine, a policeman tells him, "Them that don't have cars don't need licenses." Another character in this work spends his afternoons unsuccessfully flirting with the waitress of the Frosty Bottle before visiting the "muvseevum" that contains a shrunken artifact. The protagonist's second encounter with the police comes when they beat him to death after he has blinded himself and is found lying in a ditch. Enoch steals a mummy and tries to make it the "new jesus" of the protagonist's new religion. For 10 points, Hazel Motes tries to start the Church Without Christ in what novel, the first by Flannery O'Connor?
Wise Blood
7

90047-)
This poet wrote, "ask for no Orphean lute to pluck life back" in a poem concluding, "The Lord survives the rainbow of his will." That poem describes "the end of the whaleroad and the whale." In another poem, the speaker states, "I hear my ill-spirit sob in each blood cell," before observing a creature that "drops her ostrich tail, and will not scare." This man, who dedicated that poem to Elizabeth Bishop, also described how "giant finned cars nose forward like fish" in a poem noting, "Colonel Shaw is riding on his bubble." For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket," "Skunk Hour," and"For the Union Dead."
Robert Lowell
7

90065-)
This poet wrote  "their buried bodies / Be an unlikely treasure hoard" in an interpretive translation of the Old English poem "The Seafarer." In another poem, he parodied the PRB in the section "Yeux Glaques," attacked Henry James as "Mr. Nixon," and described a previous version of himself whose "true Penelope was Flaubert." This man heavily edited "The Waste Land," which is dedicated to him. This author of "Hugh Selwyn Mauberley" described "The apparition of these faces in the crowd" in the short poem "In a Station of the Metro." For 10 points, name this modernist poet, an American expatriate who supported fascism and wrote The Cantos.
Ezra Weston Loomis Pound
6

90075-)
In one episode in this novel, a character leaves the protagonist's organization to sell Sambo dolls in the streets and is later shot by a police officer. Characters in this novel include the aforementioned Tod Clifton, as well as a character who deliberately gives the protagonist bad letters of recommendation, Dr. Bledsoe. This novel's opening chapter was originally published as the short story "Battle Royale." The protagonist of this novel briefly works for Liberty Paints before joining the Brotherhood, an organization opposed by nationalist Ras the Exhorter. For 10 points, identify this novel by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man
6

90084-)
This poem alludes to "To His Coy Mistress" with lines like "and indeed there will be time" and "to have squeezed the universe into a ball," and refers to the story of John the Baptist when its speaker claims to have seen his head "brought in upon a platter." The speaker of this poem states, "I should have been a pair of ragged claws / Scuttling across the floors of silent seas." This poem's hesitant speaker says that he is "not Prince Hamlet" and asks questions such as "Do I dare to eat a peach?" and "Do I dare disturb the universe?" For 10 points, "women come and go, talking of Michelangelo" in what poem by T.S. Eliot?
The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" [or "Prufrock"]
6

90106-)
In one of this author's stories, a reading of H.G. Wells' The Outline of History shakes the faith of David Kern, who becomes comforted when he shoots the title birds. One of this author's protagonists has sexual relations with ex-prostitute Ruth Leonard while his wife is giving birth to their daughter Rebecca June. This author of "Pigeon Feathers" created a salesman for MagiPeeler who becomes "Rich" after his wife Janice inherits a Toyota dealership and who concludes a tetralogy "at Rest." For 10 points, name author whose creation, former high school basketball star Harry Angstrom, appears in novels like Rabbit, Run.
John Updike
6

90125-)
In this novel, the protagonist's mother idolized her father Doctor Foster to the point of sucking the fingers of his ether-bloated corpse. Another character in this novel was thought to be a witch due to her lack of a navel and carries around the bones of her father. In one episode from this novel, the protagonist meets Circe, an old ex-slave who leads him to his ancestral home of Shalimar, where he learns about his ancestors' supposed ability to fly. The protagonist of this novel is guided by his mother Pilate, rejects his father Macon, and has a showdown with his former friend Guitar. For 10 points, name this novel by Toni Morrison titled after a book of the Bible.
Song of Solomon
6

90154-)
One of this poet's collections is divided into poems in standard English called "majors" and poems in dialect called "minors." He claimed that "labor's painful sweat-beads made a consecrating chrism" upon his race, whose name is "writ in Glory's scroll," in his "Ode to Ethiopia." In one poem, he says that the world "may dream otherwise," but "oh great Christ, our cries to thee from tortured souls arise." His most noted poem describes a song that is "not a carol of joy or glee, but a prayer that he sends from his heart's deep core." For 10 points, name this African American poet of "We Wear the Mask," whose poem "Sympathy" contains the line, "I know why the caged bird sings."
Paul Laurence Dunbar
7

90176-)
This author wrote a short story in which Mr. Frazer contemplates how bread is the opium of the people, and in which the Notre Dame fan Sister Cecilia tends to the wounded gambler Cayetano. Another of his short stories ends with Wilson asking Margot, "Why didn't you just poison him?" after she shoots her husband, the title character. This author also wrote a novel in which Dr. Valentini operates on the protagonist's knee; that novel by this author ends with Catherine Barkley's death after she delivers a stillborn son. For 10 points, name this American author of "The Short, Happy Life of Francis Macomber" who created ambulance driver Fredric Henry in A Farewell to Arms.
Ernest Hemingway
6

90183-)
In this novel, the concept of a granfalloon is defined as a false karass, or linked group of people. Characters in this novel are threatened with "the Hook" if they engage in such practices as touching the soles of their feet against each other. At the beginning of this novel, Dr. Asa Breed meets with the narrator John in Ilium, New York. The second half of this book is set on San Lorenzo, where Papa Monzano commits suicide using a substance created by Felix Hoenikker. The irreverent faith Bokononism appears in this book. For 10 points, name this novel in which ice-nine destroys the world, written by Kurt Vonnegut.
Cat's Cradle
6

90205-)
This poet contrasted the cycle of the seasons with how man "grows old, lies down, remains once where he's laid" in "Contemplations," and also dealt with the seasons in one of a set of 4 poems about sets of 4, her "quaternions." In another of this writer's poems, the speaker "waken'd was with thund'ring noise", but is reassured, noting that "my hope and Treasure lie above."  This poet wrote that "if ever two were one, then surely we" in her poem "To My Dear and Loving Husband." For 10 points, name this early female colonial poet of "Verses Upon the Burning of Our House" and the collection The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet
6

90223-)
This poet admitted that "it was the first ride" and that he "was happy to see how nice she acted" before describing how he turned "the corner of Divinity avenue" in a "Brand-new" car. In one poem, he swears "by all flowers" that "kisses are a better fate than wisdom" before concluding "life's not a paragraph and death i think is no parenthesis". This poet of "since (*) feeling is first" claimed that "only the snow can begin to explain how children are apt to forget to remember" in a poem about "noone" and her husband, set in a place with "up so floating many bells down." He also fictionalized his experiences in World War I in The Enormous Room. For 10 points, name this poet of "anyone lived in a pretty how town", known for his unusual orthography.
Edward Estlin Cummings
5

90242-)
One character in this novel has the philosophy that "sin and love and fear" are just soundsmisunderstood by those who have never experienced them. In it, the preacher Whitfield decides thehardships of his journey have made his planned public confession unnecessary. One of its charactersoffers a numbered list of thirteen carpentry tips after noting "I made it on the Bevel." Anothercharacter in this novel is seduced by a clerk claiming to be a doctor after twice trying to secure drugsfor an abortion. It concludes with (*) Darl institutionalized after burning down a barn and Anse gettingfalse teeth and a new wife. Its other characters include the carpenter Cash and the impaired Vardaman. For10 points, name this William Faulkner novel about the quest to bury Addie Bundren in Jefferson.
As I Lay Dying
8

90260-)
This character discusses a completely invented, Freudian "fish dream" with the psychiatrist Sanderson. This character shares a tent with Orr and "the dead man" at the beginning of the novel in which he appears. This protagonist attempts to warn Dunbar that he will be "disappeared," and earlier attempted to comfort the dying Snowden by saying "there, there."  Resolving to "live forever or die in the attempt," he ultimately deserts the Air Force. For 10 points, identify this bombardier stationed on the island of Pianosa during World War II, the protagonist of the Joseph Heller novel Catch-22.
Captain John Yossarian
6

90268-)
In one of this poet's poems, the speaker bemoans "my stolen daughters" and repeats "Gone, gone, -- sold and gone, / To the rice-swamp dank and lone." This poet penned the line "Behold! the drink of the gods," in his poem "The Brewing of Soma," and he wrote of the bravest of "all in Frederick town" who took the "flag the men hauled down" in a poem about an old lady who expels Confederates. This poet described how "The sun that brief December day / Rose cheerless over hills of gray" in a poem about a family telling stories in a winter storm. For 10 points, name this American poet of "Barbara Frietchie" and "Snow-Bound."
John Greenleaf Whittier
6

90273-)
The protagonist of one story by this author looks up the word "soul" in Webster's Dictionary afterbeing shocked by H.G. Wells's description of Jesus in The Outline of History. This author wrote ofone character who leaves a note next to a dying cat while waiting for his wife to give birth. That isone of the four vignettes in his story "Packed Dirt, Churchgoing, A Dying Cat, A Traded Car," whichis narrated by his recurring character (*) David Kern. As a fourteen year old, David Kern resolves hiscrisis of faith by going into a barn and shooting the title birds of another story. The protagonist of anotherof his stories watches three girls shopping for "Fancy Herring Snacks in Pure Sour Cream," and is fired byLengel in a pointless gesture. For 10 points, name this author of "Pigeon Feathers" who wrote aboutSammy in "A &amp; P" and also wrote a series of novels about "Rabbit."
John Updike
8

90282-)
One character with this name is deposed for trying to usurp Dr. Francia. That character has theepithet "the Black" and is the servant of the title dictator of I, the Supreme. This was the name ofErnest Hemingway's yacht, which he temporarily outfitted with machine guns for a never realizedU-boat hunting excursion. One character with this given name is sought out for her skill at Tarotcards and gives birth to the children of two Buendia brothers in One Hundred Years of Solitude.Another character with this name describes how her village was ravished twice in three days, by theFascists and by her husband (*) Pablo. That character leads the guerilla group which helps Robert Jordanblow up a bridge in For Whom the Bell Tolls. For 10 points, give this shared name.
Pilar
8

90293-)
In one of this man's poem, a squirrel tells a mountain "If I cannot carry forests on my back,neither can you crack a nut." He wrote "the lost, the lost, he cannot restore" after claiming "thesouth-wind brings life, sunshine, and desire" in his poem "Threnody." This man wrote that "eyeswere made for seeing" and "beauty is its own excuse for being" in a poem addressed to a flower. Thenarrator of another of his poems commands "Find me, and turn thy back on heaven" after claiming"I am the doubter and the doubt." This author of (*) "Rhodora" and "Brahma" set another poem "bythe rude bridge that arched the flood" where embattled farmers "fired the shot heard round the world." For10 points, name this author of "Concord Hymn" who wrote "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of littleminds" in the essay "Self-Reliance."
Ralph Waldo Emerson
8

90311-)
Towards the end of this story, the narrator decides that "once you begin a gesture it's fatal not to go through with it." One of its characters has friends who are nicknamed Plaid and Big Tall Goony-Goony by the protagonist. At the end of this story, the narrator's stomach sinks as he realizes "how hard the world was going to be to me hereafter." Its narrator contrasts his life with that of the married Stokesie and ends this story by telling Lengel that he wants to quit his job. This story's protagonist compares his parents' parties to those run by the parents of Queenie, who distracts Sammy and his coworkers by walking into the title establishment while wearing a bikini. For 10 points, name this short story narrated by a checkout operator at the title convenience store, by John Updike.
"A&amp;P"
7

90322-)
One character in this work tells a story from his schoolboy days about a classmate who orders "bergin and water" at a bar. Another character from this play is described as a "mousy" girl who screams "violence, violence!" One character in this play kills off his son by pretending to receive a telegram about his death in a porcupine-induced car accident. Games suggested by characters in this play include "Hump the Hostess" and "Get the Guests," and this play centers on a dysfunctional couple who invite the younger Nick and Honey to their house after a faculty party. For 10 points, identify this play about an evening at George and Martha's household by Edward Albee.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
6

90354-)
One of this man's poems states that "The houses are haunted by white night-gowns" and ends by describing a sailor who imagines catching tigers "in red weather." This poet, who penned "Disillusionment at Ten O'Clock," wrote of a "dresser of deal lacking the three glass knobs" in a poem containing the line "let be be finale of seem." He wrote, "A man and a woman are one. A man and a woman and" the title creature "are one" in one of the poems in his first collection, Harmonium. For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote of the "roller of big cigars" in "The Emperor of Ice Cream" and who wrote "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird."
Wallace Stevens
6

90377-)
This author created the character Tchitcherine, who is involved in a blood feud with his half-brother Enzian, in one of his novels. Another of this author's works contains John Nefastis, who invents a machine that can be used to attempt to "connect" with Maxwell's Demon. One of this author's protagonists sees mailboxes with "W.A.S.T.E." written on them around the Bay Area and believes she finds evidence of Trystero's conspiracy. The creator of characters like Oedipa Maas and Tyrone Slothrop, for 10 points, name this postmodern American author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow.
Thomas Pynchon
6

90394-)
One story by this author begins with an algebra teacher reading in the paper about his brother being caught in a heroin bust, and ends with the narrator's brother playing jazz piano in a Greenwich Village club. This author of the story "Sonny's Blues" included "Down at the Cross" and a letter to his nephew, "My Dungeon Shook," in his essay collection The Fire Next Time. In one of this author's novels, the born-again preacher Gabriel denies that he fathered Royal in an affair, and fourteen-year-old John Grimes has a vision on the threshing-floor of a Harlem church. For 10 points, identify this African-American author of Go Tell It on the Mountain.
James Baldwin
6

90400-)
One character in this novel gives a request to "tell Jan hello" and admits that early on he knew that someday "hewould either kill himself or somebody else." The protagonist of this novel beats up Gus when they meet up to rob Blum's Delicatessen. In this novel, Bessie is murdered with a brick in an attempt to cover up the death of a woman who was beheaded and shoved into a furnace. Despite Boris Max's defense, the protagonist of this novel is sentenced to electrocution for his accidental suffocation of Mary Dalton. For 10 points, name this novel about Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright.
Native Son
6

90421-)
One of this writer's poems describes the title women as unbeautiful and having "comfortable minds," and ends by comparing the moon to "a fragment of angry candy." Another poem by this writer describes a man "who used to ride a watersmooth-silver stallion" and begins by saying that "Buffalo Bill's defunct." This poet of "the Cambridge ladies who live in furnished souls" wrote a poem in which a balloonman "whistles far and wee" in "Just-spring," while another of his poems contains the repeated line "sun moon stars rain." For 10 points, name this poet of  "anyone lived in a pretty how town," who notably used lowercase letters as well as unusual punctuation and syntax.
edward estlin cummings
6

90455-)
A story by this author subtitled "a study in temperament" follows an usher at Carnegie Hall who goes off to New York with his father's money and then jumps in front of a train. This author also wrote a novel in which an angry husband shoots Emil and Marie to death beneath a white mulberry tree. This author of "Paul's Case" created characters like Alexandra Bergson and Jim Burden, a lawyer who grows up in Black Hawk, Nebraska with a Bohemian girl. For 10 points, name this woman whose O, Pioneers! and My Antonia are set on the western frontier.
Willa Sibert Cather
6

90462-)
Living in this city is compared to "loving a woman with a broken nose" in an essay calling it a"city on the make". That essay was written by a man who wrote about Frankie Machine in a novelset here called The Man with the Golden Arm. One novel set in this home of Nelson Algren ends withthree cries that this city "will be ours!" and depicts it as being home to a Durham fertilizer plant andBrown's (*) slaughterhouse, where Jurgis Rudkus works. Another work describes this city as a "tall boldslugger" that is "flinging magnetic curses" and calls it the "Player with Railroads" and "Hog Butcher for theWorld". For 10 points, name this "City of the Big Shoulders", the setting of The Jungle and the subject of aCarl Sandburg poem.
Chicago, Illinois
5

90488-)
In one of this poet's works, the speaker demands "How shall the ritual, then, be read? . . . by yours, the slanderous tongue" after confronting a man for refusing to mourn his beloved, asking, "And, Guy DeVere, hast thou no tear?" This poet declared, "Ah broken is the golden bowl" in a poem originally published under the title "A Paean." The speaker of another poem laments the absence of motion in the landscape noting "no ripples curl" along "that wilderness of glass" after repeating the statement "resignedly beneath the sky / the melancholy waters lie." This author wrote a poem about an "angel throng" who "sit in a theatre, to see / a play of hopes and fears" but are horrified when "vast formless things" attack the stage and agree "that the play is the tragedy, — Man'." This poet of "A Dream Within a Dream" stated "Death has reared himself a throne" in the title location of one poem, and compared the subject of another poem to "those Nicean barks of yore" that have "brought me home / to the glory that was Greece / and the grandeur that was Rome." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "The City in the Sea," "To Helen," and "Annabel Lee."
Edgar Allan Poe
8

90538-)
One character in this work learns to fly so she can take veterinary classes at Cornell. Another ofits characters leaves a diaphragm under a bench in Washington Square after losing her virginity toDick Brown. One character returns from Europe in the company of her lesbian lover Baronessd'Estienne. One character in this novel breaks down after her husband Harald Petersen cheats onher, and falls or jumps out of a twenty story tower while watching for airplanes. It begins and ends atthe same Episcopal Church, where the central characters attend both the wedding and funeral ofKay Strong. The title of this novel refers to Dottie Renfrew, Helena Davidson, and six other womenwho graduate from (*) Vassar College in 1933. For 10 points, name this novel by Mary McCarthy.
The Group
8

90547-)
One character in this poem absentmindedly picks up a stick, breaks it, and throws it aside.Another character says she will "sit and see if that small sailing cloud will hit or miss the moon." Itstitle character has "nothing to look backward to with pride" and "nothing to look forward to withhope." The speakers of this poem remember Harold Wilson, who "studied Latin like the violin" andwhose devotion to books the title character disapproved of. That character has a rich brother who is"a somebody; director in the bank." One character claims (*) "home is the place where, when you haveto go there, they have to take you in." For 10 points, name this poem in which the farmer Warren converseswith his wife Mary over the return of their former employee Silas, a work of Robert Frost.
The Death of the Hired Man
8

90567-)
The phrase "men without skin" appears in this novel's three chapters of first-person"unspeakable thoughts." One character in this novel mutters "that ain't her mouth" to an image of awoman in a newspaper. Its characters include a man whose heart is like a rusted "tobacco tin" afterhe escapes a chain gang in Alfred, Georgia and the ferryman Stamp (*) Paid. This novel contains apassage set before Schoolteacher's arrival in which Baby Suggs' son Halle engages in bestiality like theother men of Sweet Home, Kentucky. Paul D and Denver both try to resist the effects of this novel's titlecharacter. For 10 points, identify this 1987 novel whose title ghost haunts its fugitive slave mother Sethe[SETH-uh], a work of Toni Morrison.
Beloved
5

90587-)
One character in this story attempts to relate the plot of Pope's translation of The Iliad, but mispronounces "Achilles" as "Ash-heels." One character in this story starves herself to death to save rations for Piney Woods, who ran away to marry "The Innocent." Another character in this story writes a suicide note on a two of clubs and pins it to a tree with a bowie knife. To the accompaniment of an accordion, characters in this story sing the refrain "I'm proud to live in the service of the Lord, and I'm bound to die in His army." The main characters of this story are stranded together with Mother Shipton and "The Duchess" in a snow-storm after Uncle Billy makes off with all of their mules and horses. The gambler John Oakhurst commits suicide in, for 10 points, what Bret Harte story?
"The Outcasts of Poker Flat"
7

90597-)
This character argues that, because he had many bickering wives and proposed to cut a baby in half, Solomon was not wise. This character wears a five-cent piece around his neck, which he claims was given to him by the Devil. He also claims to own a magical hairball from the stomach of an ox. A quote from this character titles an essay about homoeroticism in American literature by Leslie Fiedler. Another character proclaims "All right then, I'll go to hell!" when he decides to protect this character, and tears up a handbill for this character's capture. He is imprisoned on the Phelps farm, but Miss Watson's will reveals that he is now a free man. For 10 points, name this slave who journeys down the Mississippi with Huck Finn.
Jim
7

90623-)
One character in this work is saved by Hans and Pete when, after being told to jump off a cliff, heactually tries to do so. In another scene of this work, Matthewson loses sixteen hundred dollars by bettingagainst the protagonist's strength. After departing from Seattle, one character steals the protagonist's foodaboard the (*) Narwhal; that character, Dave, as well as a one-eyed character named Solleks, were positioned toinstruct the protagonist when he began working for Francois and Perrault. The protagonist of this novel later killsseveral Yeehat Indians when he sees that his master, Thornton, is dead. For 10 points, name this novel about the sleddog Buck written by Jack London.
The Call of the Wild
7

90632-)
In one poem, this author wrote of "A million eyes, a million boots in line" as part of "An unintelligiblemultitude" among which there was "Nothing to eat and nowhere to sit down." That poem includes severalstanzas beginning, "She looked over his shoulder" and ends as "Thetis of the shining breasts Cried out indismay." In another poem by this author, the title figure "had everything necessary for the Modern Man"and "held the proper opinions for the time of year." This author of "The (*) Shield of Achilles" asks, "Was hefree? Was he happy?" in a poem about a man who "was found by the Bureau of Statistics to be One against whomthere was no official complaint." Another poem by this author declares, "About suffering they were never wrong,The old Masters." For 10 points, name this author of "The Unknown Citizen" and "Musee des Beaux Arts."
Wystan Hugh Auden
7

90645-)
One character in this novel sees himself being licked by a Saint Bernard in the movie Cashiered. In one scene in this novel, the protagonist visits Mr. Thoth to investigate the story behind a bronze memorial to 12 massacred Wells Fargo men at Fangoso Lagoons. One character in this novel claims to have made a face horrifying enough to drive a man insane while working at Buchenwald; that man is Dr. Hilarius. This novel's protagonist is directed to Zapf's Used Books by Randolph Driblette after the lawyer (*) Metzger takes her to a production of Richard Wharfinger's The Courier's Tragedy, Its plot is set into motion by the death of Pierce Inverarity, and its protagonist investigates a long-running conflict between the mail delivery companies Thurn und Taxis and Trystero. For 10 points, identify this 1966 novel which stars Oedipa Maas and was written by Thomas Pynchon.
The Crying of Lot 49
6

90664-)
One character in this work gets a letter from her son relating the finding of ten white piglets. Another character in this novel improvises a story about a spirit who appears only during moonlit midnights on August 28th. It opens with a parrot repeating a phrase meaning "go away, go away, for God's sake!" After an argument sparked by a tray full of visiting cards, this novel's protagonist smashes a glass vase and stomps ineffectually on her (*) wedding ring. Its protagonist visits Dr. Mandelet and strikes up a friendship with Mademoiselle Reisz. LÃ©once's trip to New York allows its protagonist to strike up a brief affair with Alcee Arobin and continue obsessing over Robert Lebrun. It ends with the protagonist drowning herself in the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, identify this 1899 novel about Edna Pontellier, the most famous work of Kate Chopin.
The Awakening
6

90679-)
One character in this play worries that "the moon's getting nearer and nearer and there'll be a big 'splosion". In one scene in this play, three uniformed baseball players suddenly appear to mock one of the main characters before being kicked off the stage. In three different scenes in this play, a choir sings the hymn "Blessed Be the Tie that Binds". It ends with a scene in which a character revisits her twelfth birthday and wonders if "any human beings ever (*) realize life while they live it", and it also features the suicide of the alcoholic choirmaster Simon Stimson. Divided into three acts titled "Daily Life", "Love and Marriage", and "Death and Eternity", it follows the developing love between George Gibbs and Emily Webb. For 10 points, identify this play set in Grover's Corners and narrated by the Stage Manager, a work of Thornton Wilder.
Our Town
6

90705-)
In the seventh chapter of this novel, one character is revealed to have been romantically linked with both Lord Hubert and Prince Varigliano. In one scene in this novel, Carry Fisher organises a tableaux vivante at a party in the Brys's conservatory. A social-climbing Jewish banker offers money to this novel's progatonist when she loses her job in a millinery. During a cruise on the yacht Sabrina, one character in this novel covers up an affair with Ned (*) Silverton by accusing the bridge-addicted protagonist of sleeping with her husband George Dorset. At the end of this novel, both a large check written to Gus Trenor and the protagonist's death by sleeping draught overdose are discovered by Lawrence Selden. For 10 points, identify this 1905 novel of manners about Lily Bart, the first major success for Edith Wharton.
The House of Mirth
6

90708-)
G.K. Chesterton claimed that this author's second-greatest character was the lawyer Colonel Starbottle. Thompson's head is caved in with a mammoth skull during a fossil-throwing fight described in a poem by this author which is narrated by the same character as a parody of Swinburne's "Atalanta in Calydon" in which this man satirized anti-Chinese racism. This author of "Society on the Stanislaus" created the gambler Ah (*) Sin in his "Plain Language from Truthful James". In one story by this man, Kentuck drowns in a mining camp flood while attempting to save the titular son of Cherokee Sal, while in another of his stories, Tom Simson and Piney Woods encounter a group of "immoral" people led by the gambler John Oakhurst. For 10 points, name this author of "The Luck of Roaring Camp" and "The Outcasts of Poker Flat".
Bret Harte [or Francis Bret Harte]
6

90727-)
This conflict is the setting of a recently-released book about Waino Mellas, Karl Malantes's debut novel Matterhorn. In another novel set during this conflict, Father Malignan is assassinated by Dietrich Fest; that novel centers on the exploits of the retired Francis X. Sands. This conflict, the setting of Denis Johnson's Tree of Smoke, is also the setting of a book which depicts the relationship between Lee Strunk and Dave Jensen in the sections "Enemies" and "Friends". In that book, (*) Rat Kiley shoots himself in the foot and Kiowa drowns in a sewage field, while in the title story, Ted Lavender dies despite the efforts of Lt. Jimmy Cross. For 10 points, identify this war, the setting of most of Tim O'Brien's works, including The Things They Carried.
the Vietnam War
6

90742-)
In one scene in this work, a man begins throwing snapdragons around after asserting that the moon rose again after setting. One character in this work relates an anecdote about punching another character into a huckleberry bush, after which the other character appears carrying a shotgun that shoots a Chinese parasol. After the revelation that one character's novel was suppressed by his father in-law, that character describes his "second novel", which is actually a disguised revelation of another character's (*) hysterical pregnancy. Set at New Carthage College, it is divided into sections titled "The Exorcism", "Walpurgisnacht", and "Fun and Games". This play ends with one character "killing off" a fictional child in the game "Bringing Up Baby". For 10 points, name this play in which Nick and Honey experience George and Martha's weird marital strife, a work of Edward Albee.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
6

90749-)
One character in this novel attempts to collect a thousand-dollar reward from the New Hampshire relatives of a slain woman by accusing his former bootlegging partner of the murder. This novel's protagonist shacks up with waitress Bobbie Allen after beating his foster father, Mr. McEachern, with a chair. This novel ends with Byron Bunch and Lena Grove searching for Joe Brown, whose real name is (*) Lucas Burch. Another character in this novel, who was given up for adoption on the holiday that was made his last name, slits Joanna Burden's throat in Jefferson, Mississippi. For 10 points, name this William Faulkner novel in which Joe Christmas appears.
Light in August
6

90757-)
This state was where Marshall Twitchell was slain in the Coushatta massacre. A governor from this state ran his political machine from a mental hospital and was nicknamed "Uncle Earl." Another politician from here opposed Judge Benjamin Pavy and was killed by Pavy's son-in-law, Dr. Carl Weiss. The case which established the "separate but equal" principle, (*) Plessy v. Ferguson, originated from this state. One of its governors created the 1934 "Share Our Wealth" program and proclaimed "Every Man a King." A mayor from this state, Ray Nagin, was criticized for referring to his city as a "Chocolate City." For 10 points, name this state once governed by Huey Long which was especially devastated when Hurricane Katrina hit New Orleans.
Louisiana
6

90789-)
This author used the name "Virgil" to refer to Henry Wadsworth Longfellow Dana, his guide to Moscow, in his travelogue EIMI. He called Death "rich beyond wishing / if this thou catch" in a poem that opens "Thy fingers make early flowers of all things". Another of his poems ends by noting "it's always ourselves we find in the sea" after describing the title girls' trip to the beach. This author of "Maggie and Milly and Molly and May" revealed "the deepest secret nobody knows" in his poem "I (*) carry your heart with me". He also wrote a poem which repeats lines like "sun moon stars rain" and "with up so floating many bells down" and penned a novel describing the four months he spent in a French prison during World War I. For 10 points, identify this author of "anyone lived in a pretty how town" and The Enormous Room, an American poet noted for his unusual orthography.
edward estlin cummings
6

90804-)
This work's first chapter frames it as the story of an unnamed woman whom his sister knew, which is told at a country-house Christmas party. In this work, which is in the same genre as its author's "The Jolly Corner," the protagonist's attempts to write a letter to an uncle are nearly thwarted when a mysterious draft blows out a candle. The housekeeper Mrs. Grose appears in this work, which ends with a little boy (*) dying in the arms of the narrator. In this work, narrated by the unnamed governess at Bly, the children Miles and Flora are visited by Peter Quint and Miss Jessel. For 10 points, name this ghost story by Henry James.
The Turn of the Screw
6

90812-)
This poem implies that conversing about "America and Eternity" is a "hopeless task" and, in its first section, tells its addressee "while you are not safe I am not safe". Its final section, labeled a "Footnote", includes "the lone juggernaut", "the solitudes of skyscrapers and pavements", and "the vast lamb of the middleclass" among an extensive list of things the poet deems (*) "holy". The third section of this highly paratactic poem describes a place "where the faculties of the skull no longer admit the worms of the senses" and contains the repeated refrain "I'm with you in Rockland", while its second section repeatedly invokes the name of Moloch. Dedicated to Carl Solomon, it opens with the line "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness". For 10 points, name this Allen Ginsberg poem.
"Howl"
6

90849-)
In one scene, this character sings Harold Arlen's song "It's Only a Paper Moon". This character is reminded of witnessing a traumatic event at Moon Lake by a recurring polka tune called the "Varsouviana" polka. This character disdains Steve Hubbell, Pablo Gonzales, and their "ape" friend, and asserts that the "epic fornications" of her ancestors were responsible for the loss of Belle Reve. This character comes to believe that Shep Huntleigh will take her away. She recounts the discovery of a homosexual affair which led to her husband (*) Allan Grey's suicide while on a date with Harold "Mitch" Mitchell. At the end of the play in which she appears, she is raped by Stanley Kowalski. For 10 points, name this character who claims to have "always depended on the kindness of strangers", an aging Southern belle from A Streetcar Named Desire.
Blanche DuBois [prompt on DuBois or Grey]
6

90852-)
The protagonist of one novel by this author falls in love with the Catholic priest Father Ignatius and drowns while attempting to escape from her bigamous ex-husband, the curiously Mephistophelean Philip Tempest. Nat Blake, Tommy Bangs, and "Demi" Brooke are among the students at the Plumfield school in another novel by this author. This author, who wrote about Rosamond Vivian in A Long Fatal Love Chase and about Civil War nurse Tribulation Periwinkle in Hospital Sketches, satirized her family's time in (*) Fruitlands in Transcendental Wild Oats. Her best-known novel opens with its protagonists giving their Christmas breakfast to the poor Hummel family and sees one character fall through thin ice, only to be rescued by her future husband Laurie. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Beth, Meg, Jo, and Amy March in Little Women.
Louisa May Alcott
6

90854-)
One poem in this collection laments how "the manuscripts of a lifetime of sermons" were burned as waste-paper by a "grog-keeper". The speaker of another poem in this collection cries "Look at my moulds! My architectonics!" The speaker describes wounding, then caging, a hawk for whose soul he now searches in its poem "The Unknown". It ends with an "Epilogue" in which Loki and Yogarindra watch Beelzebub create men out of clay, while its penultimate poem is a fragmentary epic supposedly written by Jonathan (*) Swift Somers. Another of its poems quotes Lincoln's second inaugural address and is attributed to Anne Rutledge. It opens with a poem that asks "Where are Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom, and Charley?" and responds "All, all are sleeping on the hill". For 10 points, name this collection of epitaphs for and delivered by the dead of an Illinois town, written by Edgar Lee Masters.
Spoon River Anthology
6

90893-)
One of this author's novels contains a cover letter apologizing for not delivering The Seeker and an extended parody of Oedpius Rex called Taliped Decanus, as well as a character who coins phrases like "proctoscopy repeats hagiography". The title character of that novel by this author is raised by Max Spielman after being rescued from WESCAC and eventually rises to become the Grand Tutor of New Tammany College. Another of his protagonists marries the prostitute Joan Toast and is tutored by Henry (*) Burlingame III. This author's novellas Dunyazadiad, Perseid, and Bellerophoniad can be found in his 1973 collection Chimera. In one of his novels, Ebenezer Cooke is given the title of "Poet Laureate of Maryland" and composes the titular poem about a tobacco merchant. For 10 points, name this postmodernist American author of Giles Goat-Boy and The Sot-Weed Factor.
John Simmons Barth 
6

90913-)
One character in this novel is a Francophile painter who sees, or hallucinates, a man slitting a baby's throat on a park bench. The sequel to this novel depicts Hazel receiving a fateful astrological reading from Fauna and is called Sweet Thursday. In one episode in this novel, the dog Darling eats most of a cake while a group of character are busy trading frogs for party supplies. The most respected character in this novel is based on the author's friend Ed Ricketts, who wrote Between (*) Pacific Tides. Important locations in this novel include The Palace Flophouse, which is home to Mack and his boys, and the Bear Flag Restaurant, a brothel owned by Dora Flood. The grocer Lee Chong and the marine biologist Doc appear in, for 10 points, which novel set on a Monterey street lined with sardine fisheries, a work of John Steinbeck?
Cannery Row
6

90934-)
A poet who worked primarily in this modern-day country asked "Who in this Bowling Alley bowld the sun?" in his "The Preface" and asked God to "make me...thy spinning wheel complete" in the poem "Huswifery". Another poet from this country asserted that poetry should be an "open field" and wrote a series of poems narrated by a philosopher from Tyre. That author of the "Maximus" poems, a member of this country's Black (*) Mountain school, was heavily inspired by an epic poem by a native of this country that opens with the line "And then went down to the ship" and features sections labeled "Rock-Drill", "John Adams", and "Pisan". That poet from this country was imprisoned for treason after supporting fascism in Italy. For 10 points, name this country, home to Edward Taylor, Charles Olson, and the author of the Cantos, Ezra Pound.
The United States of America [accept either underlined portion, accept "the USA"; accept "this one" or equivalents if the question is in fact being played in the United States]
6

90939-)
This author's first novel centers on Clement Musgrove, whose daughter is kidnapped by the title figure, Jamie Lockheart. The protagonist of one of this author's short stories mistakes a scarecrow for a ghost and later pockets a nickel dropped by a hunter while she is one her way to the town to pick up medicine for her grandson. This author of the story "A Worn Path" and the novel The Robber Bridegroom wrote about a man who never fully recovers from an eye surgery after hearing his wife tell him of her desire for his money. The rest of that novel by this woman is set in Mount Salus, Mississippi, where the judge is buried by Fay McKelva and Laurel Hand. For 10 points, name this female American author of The Optimist's Daughter.
Eudora Alice Welty
6

90954-)
Late in life, this author wrote a book after taking an Outward Bound course for those 55 and older. This writer of The Fountain of Age wrote the memoir Life So Far and drafted the mission statement for one group with black Episcopal priest Pauli Murray. This writer's most famous book muses on "The Sexual Solipsism of Sigmund Freud" in one chapter. This author of The Second Stage was inspired to write one book by an upcoming reunion of Smith College graduates. That book begins with an analysis of "the problem that has no name," and includes an explanation of her own decision to give up a career in psychology. This activist was the first president of the National Organization for Women. For 10 points, name this author of The Feminine Mystique.
Betty Friedan [accept Bettye Naomi Goldstein]
6

90958-)
This author wrote about a character who waits for a woman to turn around at the shore while visiting Newport for an archery competition. In that novel by this author, Julius Beaufort throws lavish parties and the van der Luydens are the social leaders. The son of an Irish grocer courts Mattie, the cousin of the title character's wife, who tries to take out an advance on lumber from Andrew Hale in a work by this author. One of this author's protagonists lives with Gerty Farish and overdoses on sleeping pills before Selden can propose to her. Medora Manson is the aunt of Ellen Olenska who is loved by the wife of May Welland, Newland Archer, in one novel by this author, who created Lily Bart in The House of Mirth. For 10 points, name this author of The Age of Innocence and Ethan Frome.
Edith Wharton
6

90962-)
This author wrote one short story in which Reuben marries Durcas and later accidentally shoots their son at the same spot that he had seen the title character die. The protagonist of another short story by this man keeps encountering a man with a face painted red and black, and is told that he can succeed in life without the help of the title relation. This author of  "My Kinsman, Major Molineaux" wrote a story which ends with Giorgiana dying with the disappearance of the title imperfection. That story is titled "The Birthmark" and is part of the collection Mosses From an Old Manse. The protagonist of another of his short stories imagines witnessing his wife Faith participate in a satanic ritual. For 10 points, name this American author of "Young Goodman Brown."
Nathaniel Hawthorne
6

91013-)
The newest arrival to the setting of this work first tells another character nicknamed Old Cemetery that it was for the money that he sold out the Movement and his mother, but he later confesses that he hated her and kills himself by jumping off of the roof. Two former combatants in the Boer War constantly spar in this work, which also features a drunkard who constantly repeats "The days grow hot in Babylon!" but notes that it is "cool beneath the willow trees." Hickey confesses to killing his wife before asking Larry Slade and others to forgive him for going bughouse and ruining the hotel proprietor's birthday in this play. For 10 points, identify this play by Eugene O'Neill set in Harry Hope's bar, whose patrons all nurture "pipe dreams."
The Iceman Cometh
6

91041-)
One work by this author invokes William Blake with visions of "Harlem and Hells of eastern rivers" and "bridges clanking Joes Greasy Sandwiches." This poet repeatedly claims that the title flower is not a locomotive in that poem, "Sunflower Sutra." Another poem by this man asks "What were you doing down by the watermelons?" and "Where are we going, Walt Whitman?" He described a place "where you're madder than I am," in a poem that repeatedly invokes the name of the demon Moloch. This poet dedicated that poem to Carl Solomon, and he began it with the line "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness."  For 10 points, name this author of "A Supermarket in California" and "Howl," a member of the Beat generation.
(Irwin) Allen Ginsberg
6

91057-)
In this work, the paranoid Andre Mary orders the arrest of Andres, who is freed thanks to the Russian journalist Karkov. The protagonist attempts to send a letter to General Golz, requesting that the central action be called off. This novel ends with the protagonist feeling "integrated" as he lies with a broken leg, preparing to shoot an enemy. In one scene, enemy aircraft bomb a group led by El Sordo. In this novel, the protagonist joins a group led by the traitorous Pablo, although Pablo's woman, Pilar, effectively leads the group. The protagonist falls in love with Maria, who was raped by fascist troops. For 10 points, name this Ernest Hemingway novel about Robert Jordan's attempt to blow up a bridge during the Spanish Civil War. 
For Whom the Bell Tolls 
6

91094-)
In one work by this author, Mr. Sanderson gives a list of errands that a character must accomplish to earn new shoes. In that work by this author, Leo Auffman tries to invent a Happiness Machine and Douglas Spaulding makes the title substance with Tom and his grandpa. The central family adopts a surrogate grandmother in this author's story "I Sing the Body Electric." The Bitterings move to a colony with purple grass after a nuclear war breaks out in his story "Dark They Were, and Golden Eyed." This author of Dandelion Wine wrote about a man who reads "Dover Beach" and meets a group of people led by Granger when he flees the city after killing Beatty and the Mechanical Hound. For 10 points, name this author who created the book-burning firefighter Guy Montag in Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Bradbury
6

91119-)
One character in this work complains enough about an ancient sheep dog "stinking up the place" that is eventually shot. Another character in this novel uses Vaseline in his glove to keep his hand soft. The main characters of this work have a dream of owning "a little house and a couple of acres," which they talk about with the African-American Crooks. In its climatic section, Carlson discovers that one of this novel's protagonist's has taken his Luger, and that character hallucinates that he was talking with a giant bunny before he is shot by the other main character. That man had previously pet a puppy to death shortly before he killed Curley's wife. For 10 points, identify this novel by John Steinbeck about George and Lennie.
Of Mice and Men
6

91126-)
A blind Mexican woman tries to sell funeral flowers in this play, whose protagonist kisses a newspaper boy that she calls an "Arabian Prince." The protagonist used to live at the Flamingo Hotel and sings "It's Only A Paper Moon" in the bath. This play's protagonist was once married to Alan Grey, who killed himself after having a homosexual affair. It begins with the protagonist arriving at the Elysian Fields to see her sister. At the end of this play, the protagonist's relationship with Mitch is ruined and she is taken to the sanitarium after being raped by her brutish brother-in-law.  For 10 points, name this work in which the protagonist has "always depended on the kindness of strangers," a Tennessee Williams play about Stanley Kowalski and Blanche DuBois.
A Streetcar Named Desire
6

91145-)
In this work, Phebe is sold to cover up the affair between Cass Mastern and Annabelle Trice. One character in this novel got drunk at his own barbecue and decided to support MacMurfee. The protagonist of this novel picks up a hitchhiker in New Mexico who helps him formulate his idea of the Great Twitch. Sibyl Frey is impregnated by Tommy, who becomes paralyzed after a football accident in this novel. This novel's protagonist refers to Theodore Murrell as the Young Executive and to his father as the Scholarly Attorney before learning that Judge Irwin was his father. Adam Stanton learns of his sister Anne's affair from Tiny Duffy who heard it from Sadie Burke. For 10 points, name this novel about Jack Burden who works for Willie Stark, written by Robert Penn Warren.
All the King's Men
6

91147-)
This author fictionalized a love affair in a novel about Mardou Fox and Leo Percepied. In another of his novels, Jackie Duluoz has visions of the "Great World Snake" which lives undereath a castle at Lowell, Massachusetts. This author of The Subterraneans and Doctor Sax wrote about Ray and Japhy, who is based on Gary Snyder, climbing California's Matterhorn Peak and participating in various Buddhist rituals. In his best known work, this man featured such characters as the poet Carlo Marx and the morphine-adicted "Old Bull" Lee, who was based on William S. Burroughs. In that work, this man wrote about Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty traveling the coutnry in a bus. For 10 points, name this "Beat" author of The Dharma Bums and On the Road.
Jean-Louis "Jack" Kerouac
6

91152-)
This author wrote a short story about George Withermore, who is tasked with writing about Mrs. Doyne and Ashton Doyne's life, in his "The Real Right Thing." Another story by this author sees its John Marcher reunite with May Bertram, only to be consumed by thinking about his future "spectacular fate." In addition to "The Beast in the Jungle," another of this author's characters pretends to be engaged to Giovanelli, which annoys Winterbourne who had earlier taken her to Chillon Castle in Geneva. This author also wrote a novel in which Gilbert Osmond and Ralph Touchet vie for the hand of a woman that eventually chooses Caspar Goodwood, Isabel Archer. For 10 points, name this author of Daisy Miller and The Portrait of a Lady.
Henry James
6

91176-)
This author wrote about the "mystic play of shadows, twining and twisting as if they were alive" in a poem which sees its narrator receive "that strong and delicious word which, creeping to my feet, the sea whisper'd to me." In another poem this author wrote about "the mystical moist night-air, and from time to time," how he "look'd up in perfect silence at the stars." This author of "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking" and "When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer" meditated "It is some dream that on the deck, You've fallen cold and dead" in a poem about the death of Lincoln. For 10 points, name this American poet and author of Leaves of Grass, which includes his "O Captain, My Captain."
Walter Whitman
6

91204-)
This poet mused "If there's no heav'n, ah! whither wilt thou go, make they Ilysium in the shades below?" in "An Address to the Atheist." This poet of "An Address to the Atheist" also honored the death of a chaplain with the lines "Hail, happy saint, on thy immortal throne! To thee complaints of grievance are unknown." She also honored a figure whose "ev'ry action let the goddess guide, a crown, a mansion, and a throne that shine, with gold unfading" in a poem that begins "Celestial choir! enthron'd in realms of light." That poem describes "Columbia's fury found" and "the land of freedom's heaven-defended race" that defeats Britannia. For 10 points, name this early African-American poet that wrote "To His Excellency, General Washington."
Phillis Wheatley
6

91210-)
In one novel by this author, Rayber's son Bishop is drowned when Young Tarwater tries to baptize him. In another novel, Onnie Jay Holly begins to preach and Enoch searches for a friend while the protagonist tries to seduce Sabbath Lily Hawks. This author wrote about Hazel Motes starting his own Church Without Jesus. Julian borrows matches from a well-dressed black man on the bus and his mother tries to give Carver a penny in one story by this author. A monkey lives in a tree outside The Tower where Red Sammy says the title phrase of another work by this author in which the cat Pitty Sing frightens Bailey and he rolls the car. Hiram and Bobby Lee shoot the family and the Misfit kills the grandmother on their way to Florida in one storyl by this author of Everything That Rises Must Converge. For 10 points, name this author of A Good Man is Hard to Find.
Mary Flannery O'Connor
6

91239-)
This author wrote a series of short stories set in the fictionalized Midwest for his daughters. In that collection, this author included character named after his daughters' nicknames, "Spink," "Skabootch," and "Swipes," as well as the Potato Face Blind Man. One poem by this author urges "Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo / Shovel them under and let me work." Another of his poems challenges the reader to "Come and show me another city with lifted head singing / so proud to be alive and coarse and strong and cunning." This author of "Grass" called the title place "hog butcher for the world" and the "city of the big shoulders" in his poem "Chicago." For 10 points, name this American poet. 
Carl Sandburg 
6

91264-)
While relating a story, one character in this work says two people "imperceptibly slumped." At one point, a character uses the cue word "Kenilworth" during a phony conversation involving a trip to the airport. In one scene in this work, a character poses as American Express vice-president Ray Morton after earlier meeting with Bruce and Harriet Nyborg. In this play, various characters desire to work for rival Jerry Graff. In another scene, John Williamson's attempt at lying only frightens James Lingk. At the end of this play, it is revealed that Moss and the "Machine" are responsible for breaking into the office. Characters like Shelly Levene and Ricky Roma are obsessed with obtaining "the leads." For 10 points, name this David Mamet play about desperate real estate salesmen.
Glengarry Glen Ross
6

91288-)
The speaker of this poem complains about hunters who strive "to please the yelping dogs." This poem notes that "we have to use a spell to make them balance" and that "we wear our fingers rough with handling them" every spring. It states that the title object is only good where there are cows, "but here there are no cows" and there are no elves that want the title structure to be there. This poem's speaker is "apple orchard" and his "apple trees will never get across" to eat pine cones. The speaker of this poem meets his neighbor "to walk the line" and set the title structure between them once again. For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem that contains the line "Good fences make good neighbors."
"Mending Wall"
6

91298-)
One book by this author features an adolescent girl with a Christian mother and a Jewish father who attempts a year-long independent study of people's beliefs while trying to deal with going through puberty. Another of her books features a five-year-old boy who names his myna bird Uncle Feather and constantly annoys his brother Peter. For 10 points, name this author of Are You There God, It's Me, Margaret and Superfudge.
Judy Blume
1

91303-)
The protagonist of this novel suffers a head wound when asking for news from a retreating column. His friend Wilson cares for that head wound after his return to camp, a kindness the protagonist had not shown for the "Tattered Man" and Jim Conklin after they earned the titular mark. For 10 points, identify this novel that follows Henry Fleming as he participates in the Civil War, a work by Stephen Crane.
The Red Badge of Courage
1

91327-)
In one work by this author, Georgiana dies after Aylmer manages to remove the title blemish. In another work, the title character witnesses his wife Faith and other townspeople dancing. In his most famous novel, the titular object is worn by Hester Prynne as punishment for committing adultery. For 10 points, name this author of "The Birthmark," "Young Goodman Brown," and The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
1

91334-)
In this book, Vic Morgeroff mocks the word "enjoyable," and one character carries around a fireengine red bucket. The two primary adults in this book are rival twin brothers who suffer from narcolepsy. One of them, Ledroptha Curtain, controls a Whisperer at the Learning Institute for the Very Enlightened. For 10 points, name this work about Reynie Muldoon, written by Trenton Lee Stewart.
The Mysterious Benedict Society
1

91345-)
At one point in this book, two characters recite nursery rhymes and the Gettysburg Address to avoid being hypnotized by a man with red eyes. The main character of this book meets several tentacled creatures, including one called Aunt Beast, while rescuing her father from Camazotz. Its title concept is a tesseract through which Meg Murry visits the fifth dimension. For 10 points, name this novel by Madeleine L'Engle.
A Wrinkle in Time
1

91348-)
One character in this book deliberately pours syrup all over his lunch. At one point, the main characters are taken to a church by their cook, Calpurnia. Mayella Ewell accuses Tom Robinson of assaulting her; Tom is defended by the protagonist's father, the best lawyer in Maycomb, Alabama. For 10 points, name this book narrated by Scout, the daughter of Atticus Finch, and written by Harper Lee.
To Kill a Mockingbird
1

91378-)
Sally Poker hopes to see her grandfather attend her college graduation in this author's "A Late Encounter with the Enemy." Another work by this author sees Glynese balk at being married in an office instead of by a preacher and ends with Hulga's wooden leg being taken by the Bible salesman Manley Pointer. In another work by this author, a character sits next to a (*) black man on the bus to teach his mother a lesson; the mother ends up collapsing from a stroke after trying to give a black child a penny. In her best-known short story, a grandmother tries to avoid being shot by invoking Jesus' sacrifice, but The Misfit kills her anyway. For 10 points, name this author of "Good Country People" and "A Good Man is Hard to Find."
Flannery O'Connor [accept "A Late Encounter with the Enemy" before "this author]
7

91387-)
At a funeral a grieving father cries out that he is being punished by God for not helping this character when three students die in the collapse of a poorly-constructed fire escape. This character is mocked for ordering orange soda rather than beer at a meeting in Slade's pool hall. After the narrator discovers this character's affair, he takes a road-trip where he creates his theory of the (*)"Great Twitch." He pressures a historian writing a dissertation on Cass Mastern to investigate the finances of Judge Irwin. When Tiny Duffy reveals this character's affair with Anne, her brother Dr. Adam Stanton kills him at the State Capitol. For 10 points, name this boss of reporter Jack Burden, a fictionalization of Huey Long from Robert Penn Warren's All the King's Men.
Willie Stark [accept either]
7

91416-)
In this story, the title character's voice makes the protagonist think of "deep hues of purple or crimson." One character in this story tells the protagonist about an Indian doctor who presented Alexander the Great with a beautiful woman in a plot to kill him; that character gives the protagonist a vase by Cellini. Dr. (*) Baglioni frequently tries to advise this story's protagonist against visiting a woman who was born at the same moment as a large purple flower and was seen killing a spider with her breath. It ends with the death of the title character after drinking an antidote given to her by Giovanni. For 10 points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne story about Beatrice, who has become poisonous due to being raised among her father's plants.
"Rappaccini's Daughter"
7

91444-)
In a story by Barry Hannah, Quadberry conducts a brilliant performance of Bolero while playing saxophone, but later ends up dying on the operating table after suffering back injuries while fighting in this conflict. In a novel about this conflict, Richard Perry leaves Harvard for this conflict and witnesses the heads of decapitated babies. In addition to that novel by Walter Dean Myers, a collection of stories dealing with this conflict includes (*) "On the Rainy River," and the title story, in which the narrator describes the death of Lavender, after which Lieutenant Cross burns his pictures of Martha. For 10 points, name this conflict described in Fallen Angels and Tim O'Brien's "The Things They Carried".
The Vietnam War [or Second Indo-China War; accept silly answers like 'Nam]
7

91450-)
In one poem, this author wrote "My secrets cry aloud. I have no need for tongue," comparing his heart to title structure. In another poem, this author spoke of "virtues only gods could speak/Or English poets who grew up on Greek" possessed by the title character, who "was the sickle" and "I, the rake," lewdly noting "what prodigious mowing we did make."  This poet of "Open House" and "I (*) Knew a Woman" remembered that "every step you missed/my right ear scraped a buckle" and observed that "the whiskey on your breath/Could make a small boy dizzy" in another poem. His villanelle ends "I wake to sleep, and take my waking slow. I learn by going where I have to go." For 10 points, name this Michigan poet of "My Papa's Waltz" and "The Waking."
Theodore Roethke
7

91482-)
This author mused "suppose all the lions get up and go, And all the brooks and soldiers run away?" asking "will time say nothing but I told you so?" in his villanelle. In one poem by this author, the speaker laments that "The stars are not wanted now; put out every one, Pack up the moon and dismantle the sun." Yet another poem by this author reminds the reader that "even the dreadful martyrdom must run its course." This author mourned a lover who was "my North, my South, my East and West" in a poem beginning (*) "stop all the clocks." He wrote that "dogs go on with their doggy life" and that "about suffering ," the "Old Masters" were "never wrong" in a poem about "Breughel's Icarus."  For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "Funeral Blues" and "Musee des Beaux Arts." 
Wystan Hugh Auden
7

91491-)
One member of this family neglected to pay this family's electric bill in a mad dash to join the Merchant Marine. Another member of this family married a man who worked for a telephone company and sent this family a postcard reading "Hello-Goodbye!" The youngest member of this family skips typing classes at the Rubicam Business School in order to wander around St. Louis, to the horror of her mother. That youngest member is called (*) "Blue Roses" by a man who later kisses her before admitting that he is engaged and owns a unicorn with a broken horn. For 10 points, name this family including Tom and Amanda, who is obsessed with finding a "gentleman caller" for her daughter Laura in Tennessee Williams's The Glass Menagerie.
Wingfield family [accept at any point Tom Wingfield, Amanda Wingfield, or Laura Wingfield]
7

91505-)
In one story by this author, a man describes the amount of work units needed to repair a church in order for Res Grier to return to the parish. Another of this author's stories is about the unseen lynching of Will Mayes after he was accused of assaulting Minnie Copper. This author of "Shingles for the Lord" penned a 1,600 word sentence called "The Land" that is sometimes added as the fourth section of a short story in which (*) Ike McCaslin kills the title creature. In the most famous story by this author of "Dry September," the horrible smell coming from title character's home is discovered to be the corpse of Homer Barron, a Northerner whom she had killed and slept with until her death. For 10 points, name this author of "The Bear" and "A Rose for Emily."
William Faulkner
7

91515-)
One character with this profession allegedly married his sister and tried to fight a man who refused to lend him a knife before getting knocked out with a blackjack blow from a character named Bugs. Besides the ear-bereft Ad Francis, another man who participated in this activity at Princeton abandons Frances Clyne and absconds with his lover to Spain, where he brutally beats (*) Pedro Romero. Jerry Doyle narrates another story about them, which ends with Jack Brennan winning a bet after Brennan hits Jimmy Walcott below the belt; that story is "The Battler." For 10 points, name this profession practiced by Robert Cohn in The Sun Also Rises and the central character in "Fifty Grand," a gloved sport taught to Ezra Pound by Ernest Hemingway.
boxing [or boxers, people who box, etc.]
7

91546-)
One character in this work claims that he once witnessed the title character talking to a jay-bird that sat in his lap. Another character in this work is an English sailor named "Man o' War Jack" who sings this story's central character a 90-stanza lullaby about a ship called the Arethusa. At a christening ceremony in this story, the bigamist Stumpy decides on naming the title character (*) Tommy. In this story, Kentuck starts bathing regularly because of the title character, who he calls a "damned little cuss" after he "rassled with" his finger after his birth. For 10 points, name this story about a baby who is killed in a flood after being born to Cherokee Sal and raised by a California mining camp, written by Bret Harte.
"The Luck of Roaring Camp"
7

91577-)
In a novel by this author, the protagonist becomes so bored with life that he creates advertisements that read "Don't kill yourself, call" the title character, whose fortune is coveted  by the lawyer Norman Mushari. Another novel by him follows a character who becomes a teacher at a prison run by the Japanese warden Hiroshi Matsumoto, and then becomes warden himself. Besides writing about Eugene in (*) Hocus Pocus and Eliot in God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater, this man wrote a novel which combines the narrator's description of a Bokononism with the narrative of Felix Honikker, inventor of ice-9. For 10 points, name this author of Cat's Cradle, who created the "unstuck in time" Billy Pilgram for his novel Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
7

91592-)
In one work, this author argues that a poem must be short enough to be read in one sitting, and that beauty is more important than truth or passion in poetry. In a poem by this author of "The Philosophy of Composition," the speaker wonders "can I not grasp [sand] with a tighter grasp?" In another poem, the speaker compares the title figure to a ship bringing home a "weary, way-worn wanderer." This author of (*) "A Dream within a Dream" and "To Helen" described the "moaning and the groaning" and the "rhyming and chiming" of the title objects of another poem. "A wind blew out of a cloud, chilling" the title maiden, who lived "in a kingdom by the sea" in another of his poems. For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Bells" and "Annabel Lee."
Edgar Allan Poe
7

91620-)
This author closed by entreating "Learn to labor and to wait" in a poem that notes "For the soul is dead that slumbers/And things are not what they seem," spoken from "the Heart of the Young Man." A youth is found frozen to death after charging up a snowy peak with a banner proclaiming the title Latin command to go "ever higher" in his poem "Excelsior." This author of "A (*) Psalm of Life" wrote a poem in which Father Felician buries a man whose daughter is loved by Gabriel Lajeunesse; that poem begins "this is the forest primeval." This author used Kalevala meter for a poem based on Ojibwe legends, whose title character marries Minehaha. For 10 points, identify this American poet of Evangeline, The Song of Hiawatha, and "Paul Revere's Ride."
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
7

91625-)
One character in this novel dies of a heart attack while masturbating at home the very same day that Fat Stew, a man who taught a course on "My Time in the Pacific," dies. Early on in this novel, the protagonist has part of his ear bitten off by the dog Bonkers, who belongs to the family that runs the Steering School. Duncan is forced to wear an (*) eye-patch after a car accident in this novel that also involves the title character's wife, who bites off part of Michael Milton's penis. The protagonist marries Helen Holm in this novel shortly after publishing his first story while in Vienna, before breaking out with The Pension Grillparzer. For 10 points, name this novel about a man conceived when his mother takes advantage of a dying turret gunner, written by John Irving.
The World According to Garp
7

91632-)
In one story by this man, James Rimington recalls his time as the "quiet earthquake" of the New York City business world. This author of "An End to Dreams" won a posthumous Pulitzer for his unfinished poem about the American frontier, "Western Star." This author described "falling in love" with the title objects in his poem "American Names," which ends with the line (*) "Bury my heart at Wounded Knee." Another poem by this author is narrated by Connecticut abolitionist Jack Ellyat and takes its title from a song whose title object "lies a-mouldering in the grave" while "His soul's marching on." For 10 points, name this author of "John Brown's Body" who wrote about Jabez Stone's deal with Mr. Scratch in "The Devil and Daniel Webster."
Stephen Vincent Benet
7

91644-)
This is the surname of a character who is accompanied on a walk through the city of Edina by her poodle Diana and her three-foot-tall servant Pompey. That character with this surname is eventually decapitated by a clock tower's minute hand at the end of Poe's "A Predicament". A character with this name in a novel narrates a tale called "The Silvery Vale" and commits suicide after learning that Hollingsworth has chosen her half-sister (*) Priscilla. A different character with this given name takes a two-day trip to Bettsbridge to seek treatment for her illness, during which time her absence unnerves Mattie Silver and her cat breaks her favorite pickle dish. For 10 points, give the name shared by a character from The Blithedale Romance and the wife of Ethan Frome.
Zenobia [prompt on "Zeena"; accept Signora Psyche Zenobia or Zenobia Moodie or Zenobia Faunteleroy or Zenobia Frome]
7

91650-)
One of this author's characters repeatedly calls his son a bum after asking if he's married yet. In one of this author's plays, one character refers to another character's statement of "let it be on your head" as "The Curse of the Cat People". In one of his plays, a poker game breaks up after the players realize that another character has disinfected the playing cards. In that play by this author the title characters try double dating with the (*) British Pigeon sisters. This author of Come Blow Your Horn wrote a play in which Corie Bratter tries to get her uptight husband Paul to unwind and a play in which neat-freak Felix Unger moves in with slob Oscar Madison. For 10 points, name this playwright of Barefoot in the Park and The Odd Couple.
(Marvin) Neil Simon
7

91691-)
This character keeps a seahorse pin in a heart-shaped box and tells a story about a parrot who swears in front of a preacher.  This character's husband shot himself as polka music played in the background sometime after she found him in bed with (*) another man.  This character claims to have stayed at the Tarantula Arms in Laurel, Mississippi, where she was fired from her job as a schoolteacher for sleeping with a student. This character believes she will be saved by an imaginary millionaire named Shep Huntleigh and goes mad after being raped by her brother-in-law, whereupon she professes that she has "always depended on the kindness of strangers."  For 10 points, name this sister of Stella Kowalski, the protagonist of A Streetcar Named Desire.
Blanche DuBois [either name fine]
7

91704-)
This author's most recent drama centers on the retired longshoreman Gus Marcantonio. Another play by this author is set in the apartment of middle-aged actress Agnes Eggling during the waning days of the Weimar Republic and is frequently interrupted by scenes featuring Zilla, an American living in 1990 who fears Ronald Reagan has become too much like Hitler. In this author's most famous play, Louis (*) Ironson discovers that his lover Prior Walter has AIDS, and closeted homosexual Joe Pitt is offered a promotion from Roy Cohn, who also has AIDS. For 10 points, name this Jewish-American playwright of A Bright Room Called Day and Angels in America.
Anthony Robert "Tony" Kushner
7

91721-)
One character in this play stores a piece of a violin, his daughter's baby shoe, a "piece of cameo on a string," and a poem signed by his mother in his safe-deposit box. In this play, a black servant says that her masters "eat the earth and eat all the people on it like in the Bible with the locusts." A married woman in this play flirts with a visiting Chicago businessman named William Marshall, who plans to build a cotton mill. In it, Leo and Oscar try to steal (*) $88,000 in Union Pacific Bonds from an invalid confined to a wheelchair, who dies trying to climb up the stairs to get his medication. That invalid, Horace, is effectively murdered by his wife Regina Giddens. For 10 points, name this play about the money-obsessed Hubbard family by Lillian Hellman.
The Little Foxes
7

91750-)
A character in this work, who owes another twelve dollars, gives him thirty-two instead but isaghast to return the next day to find the money untaken. The narrator of this work loves to repeatthe name of the late John Jacob Astor and pays off the grub-man at the Tombs to procure his frienddinner. The subject of this story supposedly once worked in the (*) Dead Letter Office, and this storyends with a lawyer exclaiming "Ah, humanity!" The narrator of this story employs Turkey and Nippers inaddition to the title character, who repeats that he "would prefer not to" do anything. For 10 points, identifythis short story about a lazy copyist by Herman Melville.
"Bartleby, the Scrivener: A Story of Wall Street"
5

91758-)
In one poem, this author imagines an activity that is "good both going and coming back" andenvisions a boy "too far from town to learn baseball" who "one by one" "subdued his father's trees."Trees that "bend to left and right" cause this author to imagine that "some boy's been swingingthem." This poet offered a definition of home as "the place where, when you have to go there, Theyhave to take you in" in a poem in which (*) Mary and Warren discuss the return and demise of the farmhand Silas. This author described holding a pane of ice "against the world of hoary grass" in "AfterApple-Picking." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Death of the Hired Man" and "Birches" who claimed"Good fences make good neighbors" in "Mending Wall."
Robert Lee Frost
5

91760-)
As part of this work's namesake "mania," over 500,000 British women signed the Stafford Houseaddress to its author. Caroline Lee Hentz wrote about a "bride" in response to this work, which alsoinspired The Sword and the Distaff by William Gilmore Simms. This work was spurred by legislationchallenged in Ableman v. Booth, the so-called "Bloodhound law", and drew on its author's experienceteaching in Cincinnati. It probably inspired Stephen (*) Foster's "My Old Kentucky Home," whichaccompanied hugely popular minstrel shows adapting this work. When visiting the White House, its authorwas apocryphally called "the little lady who made this big war." For 10 points, name this 1852 novelfeaturing Topsy and other slaves, by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Uncle Tom's Cabin, or Life Among the Lowly
5

91762-)
In his childhood, a phantom hand gripped this character after he was sent to bed early on thesummer solstice for climbing up a chimney. This character likens his activity to a brief interludebetween a presidential election and a battle in Afghanistan. At the beginning of the novel in which heappears, this character is spurred to leave Manhattan by "a (*) damp, drizzly November" in his soul.This character gets the 300th lay from Peleg and Bildad, two Nantucket Quakers, by changing his customof enlisting as a merchant sailor. In New Bedford, this character hears Father Mapple's sermon on Jonah.This character survives the aftermath of a three-day chase by floating on the coffin of his friend Queequeg.For 10 points, name this narrator of Moby-Dick.
Ishmael
5

91802-)
This novel's narrator lends a good horse-collar to another character and grows angry when Ambrosch returns a worn-out one. In this novel, a former worker at the Gardener Hotel makes a fortune in the Yukon, making possible a life in San Francisco for that woman, Tiny Soderball. The protagonist of this novel is moved by Marguerite and Armand's drama in the play Camille, which he sees with longtime acquaintance (*) Lena Lingard, who urges him to visit a woman abandoned by Larry Donovan. After twenty years, this novel's narrator returns to Black Hawk to visit the eldest Shimerda daughter, who is now married to Anton Cuzak. For 10 points, identify this novel about Jim Burden's friendship with a Bohemian woman in Nebraska, by Willa Cather.
My Antonia
5

91806-)
This object appears in the title of an essay by Leslie Fiedler about homoeroticism in Americanliterature. During the day, part of this object is inhabited by a man painted blue to look like a "SickArab". A character who lives on this object writes a letter to Miss Watson, which he later tears up,exclaiming "All right, then, (*) I'll go to hell!" Actors who put on the "Royal Nonesuch" use this vesselto escape from Bricksville, and after it crashes, one passenger observes the feud of the Grangerfords andthe Shepherdsons. The Duke and the Dauphin board this vessel in Arkansas, long after it sets out fromJackson's Island with the intended destination of Cairo, Illinois. For 10 points, name this vessel on whichJim and Huck float down the Mississippi.
the raft in Huck Finn
5

91817-)
A member of this family gets engaged to Agnes Wainwright and admires his brother who did timefor manslaughter in McAlester State Penitentiary. At a gas station with yellow pumps, this family'sdog is run over by a fancy car. Vignettes interspersed among the story of this family include oneabout a diner run by Mae and Al, and one in which a (*) turtle gets caromed off a highway. This familytravels with Ivy and Sairy Wilson. One member of this family has a stillborn baby fathered by ConnieRivers, and her brother attacks the orchard guard who kills Jim Casy. This family's matriarch dies duringtheir trip across Arizona to farms in California. For 10 points, name this family that flees the Dust Bowl inThe Grapes of Wrath.
Joad family
5

91832-)
This character has to explain that rhinestone is "next door to glass" after she is confronted aboutthe marital provisions of the Napoleonic Code. After catching a butcher's package that is thrown toher, this character goes to watch the bowling game between two friends from the 241st Engineers. Onher wedding night, this woman is "sort of thrilled" when her husband uses a slipper to (*) smash allthe light bulbs in her house. This character gives birth to a son on the night her husband rapes her sister,who loses the Belle Reve plantation. This character runs away to her neighbor Eunice to escape her violenthusband Stanley, who stands in the street bellowing her name. For 10 points, name this sister of BlancheDubois in A Streetcar Named Desire.
Stella Dubois Kowalski [prompt on Dubois or Kowalski]
5

91840-)
These objects are supposedly threatened by the development of a 344-millimeter Lepage glue gun.A character who decides to die of pneumonia moves into a hospital that often treats men who work inthese objects, and Chief White Halfoat had earlier threatened to slit the throat of one of the officersin charge of them. A man who continually crashes these (*) vehicles escapes to Sweden in a rowboat.These vehicles are the principle means by which the Allies conduct the "Great Big Siege of Bologna".McWatt bisects Kid Sampson with the propeller of one of these vehicles before crashing it into a mountain,and Snowden is killed by the flak that hits one of them. For 10 points, name these vehicles flown by thebombardier Yossarian in Catch-22.
airplanes [or bombers]
5

91877-)
This man's son Owen narrates Russell Banks' novel Cloudsplitter. A poem about this man notesthat "sometimes there comes a crack in time itself" and begins with an invocation of an "Americanmuse" with a "strong and diverse heart." Another poem about this man claims his "knapsack isstrapped upon his back" and that "his pet lambs will meet him on the way." In a poem by JohnGreenleaf Whittier, this man kisses a (*) baby shortly before his death. This subject of a poem whoserefrain is "glory, glory, Hallelujah" lends his name to an epic by Stephen Vincent Benet. For 10 points,name this abolitionist whose "soul's marching on" and whose body "lies a-mouldering in the grave" in afolk song Julia Ward Howe adapted into "The Battle Hymn of the Republic."
John Brown
5

91905-)
The state is the site of Shellmound, where Troy Flavin joins the Fairchild family in a novelnarrated by Laura McRaven. In another novel set in this state, the young Texan Fay helps bring thebody of her husband, who dies after surgery to repair a detached retina, back here from NewOrleans. Judge Clinton McKelva is buried by his daughter Laura Hand in Mount Salus in this state,which is the setting of (*) Eudora Welty's Delta Wedding and The Optimist's Daughter. Plantations hereincluded Sutpen's Hundred, whose story is told to Shreve McCannon by a resident of this state. QuentinCompson leaves this state's town of Jefferson to attend Harvard. For 10 points, name this state whereWilliam Faulkner created the fictional Yoknapatawpha County.
Mississippi
5

91912-)
One character in this novel wants to create an exotic dance act in which her pet cockatoo helps herundress. A policeman in this novel is forced by his sergeant to sit in a stall in the bus station everyday, wearing a different ridiculous costume, while searching for suspicious characters. In this novel,the pornography ring run out of the Night of Joy nightclub by Lana Lee is busted by OfficerMancuso. A character in this novel corresponds regularly with (*) Myrna Minkoff, and after beingfired for starting a strike at the Levy Pants factory, the obese, green hunting, cap-wearing protagonistbecomes a hot dog vendor. For 10 points, name this novel about the comic misadventures in New Orleansof Ignatius J. Reilly, by John Kennedy Toole.
A Confederacy of Dunces
5

91952-)
In one short story by this author, the fraud-obsessed Neal takes a bunch of Benadryl and runs hiscar into a bridge abutment. This author included "Good Old Neon" in his collection Oblivion. Afamily created by this man includes a woman who has an affair with John "No Relation" Wayne anda womanizing punter for the Arizona Cardinals. In an effort to get Canada to secede from ONAN,the (*) Wheelchair Assassins seek the last work of a filmmaker who puts his head in a microwave in anovel by this man. For that novel, set in the Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment, this man createdMichael Pemulis, who masters Eschaton, a game played by Hal Incandenza at the Enfield Tennis Academy.For 10 points, name this author of Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace
5

91972-)
One character in this story wears a yellow shirt with parrots on it, and another owns a graymonkey tied to a chinaberry tree. A character in this story suddenly remembers the location of ahouse with a secret panel as being in Tennessee, not Georgia. Some characters in this story eat lunchat "The Tower", a (*) barbecue joint owned by Red Sammy, before getting in an accident when the catPitty Sing jumps on Bailey's face. A character in this story proclaims that Jesus disrupted the balance of theuniverse by raising the dead after Hiram and Bobby Lee kill John Wesley and June Star. This story endswith the Misfit shooting the grandmother. For 10 points, name this short story by Flannery O'Connor.
A Good Man is Hard to Find"
5

91989-)
This poet concluded "alas, we all are babes" after declaring "tradition, thou art for sucklingchildren" in one poem. In another poem, this man's "pen could mash" the "many red devils" thatrun from his heart. Those poems appear in a collection titled for a group who, with "clang of spearand shield," "came from the sea." This author set several stories in Whilomville, New York. In anovel by this author of the collection The (*) Black Riders, a "tattered solider" begs for companionshipfrom "the youth," who is moved by the death of Jim Conklin; in that novel, the solider who leads the 304thNew York to victory is wounded by a rifle blow to the head. For 10 points, name this author who createdHenry Fleming in The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane
5

91998-)
This poet described "casual flocks of pigeons" that "sink, downward to darkness" in a poem thatdescribes "silent Palestine" as "Dominion of the blood and sepulchre" and begins with a womanenjoying "complacencies of the peignoir." An object envisioned by this man "did not give of bird orbush, like nothing else in Tennessee" after it was placed upon a (*) hill. This author of "SundayMorning" and "Anecdote of the Jar" wrote a poem whose narrator knows "noble accents and lucid,inescapable rhythms" and notes that "Among twenty snowy mountains, the only moving thing was the eyeof" the title creature. For 10 points, name this poet who called for "the roller of big cigars" in "The Emperorof Ice-Cream" and wrote "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird".
Wallace Stevens
5

92014-)
In a play by this author, the inventor of the alphabet has a son named Cain, whose name ischanged to Henry after he kills his brother. This author wrote the screenplay for Alfred Hitchcock'sShadow of a Doubt. In the third act of a play by this man, a character decides to re-live her twelfthbirthday, on which she sees the reliable milkman Howie Newsome. This man wrote a play in whichGeorge and (*) Maggie Antrobus survive a New Jersey flood, war, and ice age. In another play by thisauthor of The Skin of Our Teeth, Simon Stimson hangs himself and the lives of George Gibbs and EmilyWebb are explained by the Stage Manager. For 10 points, name this American playwright who usedGrover's Corners as the setting of of Our Town.
Thornton Niven Wilder
5

92037-)
A character created by this author runs off to New York with Bradd Criley, a friend of herhusband, a small-town judge, but at that novel's end, Jinny Marshland ends up reuniting with thetitle character. Another of this man's characters creates the Minute Men after defeating WaltTrowbridge and FDR to win the presidency. Doremus (*) Jessup opposes the fascist takeover ofAmerica led by Buzz Windrip in this man's novel It Can't Happen Here. One of this man's charactersmoves with her son Hugh to Washington and leaves her husband Will after failing to put on "Androcles andthe Lion" with the Thanatopsis Club. For 10 points, name this author of Cass Timberlane who describedCarol Kennicott's life in Gopher Prairie in his novel Main Street.
Sinclair Lewis [or Harry Sinclair Lewis]
5

92046-)
This poet modified the motto of the Society of the Cincinnati for the epigraph of one of his poems.This poet described his boyhood in "91 Revere Street," a prose section of a larger work that includesa poem about his loss of faith and a train ride from Rome to Paris. This poet of "Beyond the Alps"mentioned a "summer millionaire, who seemed to leap from an (*) L. L. Bean catalogue" in a poemthat describes "Nautilus Island's hermit heiress;" that poem ends with an animal jabbing its head into a cupof sour cream. Another poem by this man describes a monument across from the South Boston Aquariumthat "sticks like a fishbone in the city's throat." This man's Life Studies includes "Skunk Hour." For 10points, name this poet of "For the Union Dead."
Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence "Cal" Lowell IV]
5

92066-)
This poet wrote of a man who is asked, "Why don't you speak for yourself, John?" when he deliversanother man's marriage proposal in "The Courtship of Miles Standish." This poet of "The Children'sHour" also wrote of a man who saw two lamps in the belfry of the Old North Church, indicating that theBritish were arriving by sea. For 10 points, name this poet of "Paul Revere's Ride," who also wrote "TheSong of Hiawatha."
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
1

92074-)
This novel's main character expresses lament that his dad says everything is "fine." It depicts a ritual inwhich a boy must draw from a box containing five white marbles and one black one. Emile Janza callsthis book's main character "a fairy" and "a queer" in response to that character's attempted defiance ofthe Vigils. For 10 points, name this Robert Cormier book about Jerry Renault's refusal to sell the titlesweet.
The Chocolate War
1

92076-)
In one of this author's stories, Harry fights with his wife Helen over a gangrene infection on his leg;that story takes place on a safari. He also wrote a novella about a friend of Manolin and admirer of JoeDiMaggio who fights with sharks on his way back to Havana. For 10 points, name this author of "TheSnows of Kilimanjaro," who also wrote about Santiago catching an enormous fish in The Old Man andthe Sea.
Ernest Miller Hemingway
1

92082-)
The main characters of this book are allowed passage into Fort William Henry after Duncan Heywardtricks a sentinel by speaking French. This book's hero tries to rescue the two "females,"Alice and CoraMunro, after they are kidnapped by Magua (MAH-gwa). For 10 points, name this novel set during theFrench and Indian War in which Natty Bumppo befriends Chingachgook (CHIN-gach-gook) and Uncas,and written by James Fenimore Cooper.
The Last of the Mohicans
1

92094-)
One of this man's works claims that "for destruction", the two title elements "would suffice." Inaddition to "Fire and Ice", he wrote a poem where the narrator has "miles to go before" he sleeps. In hismost famous poem, the speaker leaves the title entity "for another day", and takes "the one less traveledby." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" and "The RoadNot Taken."
Robert Lee Frost
1

92100-)
In this work, Fedallah's three prophecies come true, including the main character's death by hemp rope.The protagonist uses a gold doubloon to gain his men's support, but in the end, the coffee-addictedStarbuck dies, as do Tashtego and Queequeg. The Rachel rescues the only survivor of the Pequod,Ishmael, who narrates this novel. For 10 points, name this novel featuring Captain Ahab, written byHerman Melville.
Moby Dick, or The Whale
1

92110-)
This novel's main character is falsely accused of stealing a baseball player's shoes from a charityauction. That character's ancestor Elya tried to marry Myra Menke, but in doing so wronged MadameZeroni. Camp Green Lake is infested with yellow-spotted lizards and has employees including TheWarden, Mr. Pendanski, and Mr. Sir in, for 10 points, what novel about Stanley Yelnats IV, written byLouis Sachar?
Holes
1

92127-)
In a novel by this man, Mr. Sanderson gives the narrator new shoes in exchange for work in hisstore; that novel includes a subplot about Leo's happiness machine but focuses on the reminiscencesof Douglas Spaulding. A story by this man describes an automated house that plays a recording of aSara Teasdale poem after a nuclear winter; that story is part of a collection that opens by describing(*) interplanetary launches warming an Ohio winter. Those stories by this author of Dandelion Wine are"There Will Come Soft Rains" and "Rocket Summer." In a novel by him, the Mechanical Hound attacksfirefighter Guy Montag, who says that "it was a pleasure to burn." For 10 points, name this author of TheMartian Chronicles and Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Douglas Bradbury
5

92147-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems wonders what would happen if the title figure "hadanswered No, When forth the tremulous question came that cost the maiden her Norman name" in apoem addressed to a portrait of his great-grandmother and entitled "Dorothy Q." Another poem bythis man describes an object that "No more shall feel the victor's tread, Or know the conqueredknee," and opens with the exhortation "tear her (*) tattered ensign down!" This man's best known poemdescribes an animal that continually "left the past year's dwelling for the new" "as the spiral grew," and inthat poem, he asks his soul to "Build thee more stately mansions." For 10 points, name this author of "OldIronsides" and "The Chambered Nautilus."
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
5

92167-)
This novel begins as the main character and his mother Ellen plant potatoes. In this novel, the main character's family's farm is vandalized due to neighborhood outrage over his brother Bill's decision to fight against his brothers Tom and John. Jenny and Shadrach marry after Shadrach is wounded at Gettysburg in, for 10 points, what novel depicting the maturation of Jethro Creighton during the Civil War, by Irene Hunt?
Across Five Aprils
1

92177-)
In one story by this author, General Lasalle's army saves the narrator from the Inquisition. Another narrator describes a sound like "a watch makes when enveloped in cotton." In a poem by this author, the title creature is perched on a "pallid bust of Pallas." For 10 points, name this author of "The Pit and the Pendulum" and "The Tell-Tale Heart" who told of a bird crying "Nevermore" in "The Raven."
Edgar Allen Poe
1

92189-)
This work opens with stories of a pilot who misread his directions and a friend who was distracted by asalmon hatchery. This book's protagonist runs off with his baby brother Gabe to avoid punishment by"Release." The title character is able to turn off the speaker, see colors, and transfer memories from thepast world. For 10 points, what novel about a "Receiver of Memories" named Jonas was written by LoisLowry?
The Giver
1

92192-)
Reverend Shannon works as a tour guide in this author's Night of the Iguana. In another play, afterJim O'Connor reveals he is engaged to Laura, Tom Wingfield leaves his family. One of his characters has"always depended on the kindness of strangers;" that character is institutionalized by Stanley Kowalski.For 10 points, name this author of The Glass Menagerie who created Blanche DuBois (doo-BWAH) in AStreetcar Named Desire.
(Thomas Lanier) "Tennessee" Williams [accept Night of the Iguana before it is read]
1

92214-)
Among those killed in this work is Giles Corey. Reverend Hale arrives to examine the unconsciousBetty. This play sees Rebecca Nurse accused of killing seven of Goody Putnam's children, whileReverend Parris worries that his niece Abigail Williams will ruin his name. In the end, John Proctorrefuses to make a false confession and is executed. For 10 points, name this play by Arthur Miller aboutthe Salem witch trials.
The Crucible
1

92225-)
A character in this play tells a story about an eighty-four-year-old colleague who wears green velvet slippers and dies peacefully on a train. That character "hears but is not aware of" a recurring flute melody during this play. Dave Singleman represents the good old days in a conversation the main character of this play has with Howard Wagner. Another character in this play gives up on going to (*) UVA and quits summer school after he discovers his father having an affair in Boston, and Biff also fails to form a sporting goods business with his brother Happy. The title character of this play intentionally crashes his car in order to give his family the life insurance money. For 10 points, name this play by Arthur Miller about the suicide of Willy Loman.
Death of a Salesman
5

92244-)
Rather than make her first sale, a nearsighted character in this novel gives a free gingerbreadJim Crow to an urchin, who immediately demands her other cookie. Like his ancestor, a character inthis novel dies of apoplexy while seated in an oak chair due to a curse placed on his family. At the endof this novel, a secret Indian deed to the eastern lands of Maine is found behind a portrait. Thecentral family of this novel was cursed by Holgrave's ancestor (*) Matthew Maule, whose property wasseized after he was executed for being a witch. In its second chapter, Hepzibah opens a shop in preparationfor her brother, Clifford Pyncheon's, imminent release from prison. For 10 points, name this NathanielHawthorne novel about a dwelling with an unusual roof.
The House of the Seven Gables
5

92254-)
This man's adaptation of an earlier poem asks "Why should I climb the lookout?" before notingthat "The monkeys make sorrowful noise overhead"; that poem is a series of reminiscencesbeginning "while my hair was still cut straight across my forehead." This man's work as a translatorappears in Ripostes and Cathay, which includes an adaptation of Li Po entitled "The (*)River-Merchant's Wife: A Letter." This poet, whose slogan was "make it new!" described "apparitions ofthese faces in a crowd" as "petals on a wet black bough" in his two-line poem "In a Station of the Metro."For 10 points, name this American poet who, while incarcerated in St. Elizabeth's Hospital, wrote the"Rock-Drill" section of his 120-section epic The Cantos.
Ezra Loomis Pound
5

92270-)
A character created by this author has an affair with Thelma Harrison, the wife of his old rivalRonnie, and later suffers a heart attack while out fishing with his granddaughter, whom he managesto save from drowning. Years earlier, that character created by this author is unable to save hisnewborn daughter from drowning in a bathtub due to Janice's negligence. In a novel by this man, a(*) MagiPeel salesman from Brewer, Pennsylvania, has an affair with Ruth Leonard, whom he meetsthrough Marty Tothero, an old coach. This man's most famous character, a former high school basketballstar, appears in novels in which he "is Rich" and "at Rest." For 10 points, name this American author whodescribed the life of Harry Angstrom in his "Rabbit" series.
John Hoyer Updike
5

92278-)
In this novel, a man who calls himself the "good guy" punishes a knife-wielding thief by forcing him to strip all his clothes off and leaving him to die in the wild. The protagonists of this novel are briefly joined by a sick old man named Ely who proclaims that there is no God, but all humans are his prophets. The protagonists of this novel own binoculars, a pistol with two bullets, a blanket, and some tools that they carry in a grocery cart. This novel follows an unnamed father and his son on a quest to reach the sea who pass through a hellscape destroyed by an unspecified disaster. For 10 points, name this post-apocalyptic novel by Cormac McCarthy.
The Road
7

92289-)
This character leaves a DJ's fur-decorated apartment after her friend's breasts slip out of her dress while she hangs by her teeth from his ear. After returning home, she is horrified to see her neighbor Dodo Conway pregnant with a seventh child. This character is taken to the emergency room for the immense bleeding she experiences after her first sexual experience with the Harvard professor, Irwin. She takes on the name "Elly Higginbottom" while going out with her sexy friend Doreen, with whom she works at Ladies' Day. While interning at a magazine over the summer, she suffers a breakdown and undergoes electroshock therapy. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Sylvia Plath's The Bell Jar.
Esther Greenwood
7

92313-)
The 2010 Tony Award for Best Play went to an author from this country who depicted Kenhelping Mark Rothko paint the Four Seasons murals in Red. One author from this country collectedsuch plays as Sure Thing and Words, Words, Words in his series All in the Timing, which also containshis Variations on the Death of Trotsky. This is the home country of John (*) Logan and David Ives. Inone play by an author from this country, Don, Teach, and Bobby plan to steal a coin with a buffalo on it,and in another play, that author described the attempts of Ricky Roma and Shelley "The Machine" Leveneto acquire real estate leads. For 10 points, name this home country of the author of Glengarry Glen Ross,David Mamet.
United States of America [accept either underlined portion; accept USA]
5

92332-)
In a short story by this author, Alida Slade reveals that she had written a fake letter from Delphin to Grace Ansley inviting the latter to a rendezvous at the Colosseum in an attempt to get her sick with malaria. In a novel by this author, Fanny Beaufort's fiance Dallas visits Paris to meet with his father's former lover. In another novel by this author of (*) "Roman Fever", a debt to Gus Trenor and the schemes of Bertha Dorset ruin the social standing of the object of Lawrence Selden's love, Lily Bart. In another novel by this woman, May Welland reveals her pregnancy in order to prevent Newland Archer from running away to Europe with Ellen Olenska. For 10 points, name this author of The House of Mirth and The Age of Innocence.
Edith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones]
5

92339-)
This author's friendship with Katherine Anne Porter led to his acquisition of material fromwhich he, like Edgar Allan Poe, adapted the story of the Kentucky Tragedy. In a novel by this man,he tells of Jeremiah Beauchamp's love for Rachel Jordan and subsequent murder of Cassius Fort.With Cleanth Brooks, this author of World Enough and Time wrote the textbook (*) UnderstandingPoetry and founded The Southern Review. At the end of a novel in which this man describes "the GreatTwitch", Adam shoots "the Boss" after Anne Stanton's affair is revealed. For 10 points, name this authorwho used reporter Jack Burden to narrate the story of Louisiana governor Willie Stark in All the King'sMen.
Robert Penn Warren
5

92343-)
This poet wrote about a maiden who was killed by jealous angels and who lived "in a kingdom by the sea." He wrote about a creature that sits "On the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door." That poem of his begins, "Once upon a midnight dreary, while I pondered, weak and weary." For 10 points, name this poet of "Annabel Lee" who wrote about the title creature repeating the word "nevermore" in "The Raven."
Edgar Allen Poe
1

92361-)
This character feels nauseous at the sight of blue oatmeal and befriends Yard Ape. She ends a book report with the line, "I can't believe I ate the whole thing." In one appearance, she makes a gravestone for the cat Picky-Picky and recovers Aunt Bea's wedding ring. For 10 points, name this pest of Klickitat Street and friend of Howie Kemp, the younger sister of Beezus Quimby in a series of books by Beverly Cleary.
Ramona Quimby [or Ramona Quimby; prompt on Quimby] 
1

92363-)
This city is where Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man works at the Liberty Paint Company. George Selden wrote about a cricket in one of this city's major public spaces. The Great Gatsby takes place in this city where Percy Jackson visits the Metropolitan Museum of Art. This city is where Stuart Little races boats in Central Park. For 10 points, name this city in which the Harlem Renaissance took place.
New York City 
1

92376-)
In one scene, this character causes a cat to run chaotically through the house by giving it "pain-killer." He plays Robin Hood with Joe Harper. He gets trapped in McDougal's Cave with Becky Thatcher, where he sees Injun Joe hiding. Earlier, he had persuaded his friends to whitewash a fence for him. For 10 points, name this companion of Huck Finn in several novels by Mark Twain. 
Tom Sawyer [accept either or both underlined parts] 
1

92389-)
This frequent collaborator of Dave McKean won both the Carnegie and Newbery Medals for a bookabout a crypt full of Sleer being explored by Nobody Owens. In another book, he wrote about the retiredactresses Miss Forcible and Miss Spink; Mr. Bobo, the owner of a disappointing mouse circus; and a girl's"other mother" who has black buttons for eyes. For 10 points, name this author of The Graveyard Bookand Coraline.
Neil Gaiman
1

92394-)
Mack, Dora, and Lee Chong try to throw a party for Doc in this author's novel Cannery Row. Thisauthor wrote about Kino's encounter with the title object in The Pearl. Two migrant workers, George andLennie, are the main characters in his Of Mice and Men; another work features the Joad family and other"Okies." For 10 points, name this American author of The Grapes of Wrath.
John Steinbeck [accept Cannery Row before it is read]
1

92404-)
In this novel the narrator's father shoots Tim Johnson, a rabid dog. The narrator and her brother are attacked on the way home from a Halloween pageant, but are saved by Boo Radley. In this book, Tom Robinson is falsely accused of raping Mayella Ewell; he is defended by attorney Atticus Finch, but is convicted. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Scout Finch, written by Harper Lee.
To Kill a Mockingbird
1

92416-)
One gullible character in this novel born in Tisbury goes by the nickname of "King-Post." The narrator claims that he finds himself "growing grim about the mouth" and with a "damp, drizzly November in my soul" at the beginning of this novel, which describes a man with a turban made out of his own beard named Fedallah. Flask and Tashtego are characters in this novel that centers on the megalomaniacal captain of the Pequod and his quest to kill the title creature. For 10 points, name this Herman Melville novel in which Captain Ahab seeks the white whale.
Moby-Dick
6

92427-)
This author recalls discovering "a leaping tongue of bloom the scythe had spared" in one work. He wrote another poem in which "a flower unplucked is but left to the falling." This author of "The Tuft of Flowers" and "Asking for Roses" remembered being "overtired of the great harvest I myself desired" in "After Apple-Picking." In another poem, he states that "one could do worse than be a swinger of" the title trees. This author of "Birches" questioned whether "good fences make good neighbors." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Mending Wall."
Robert [Lee] Frost
6

92441-)
This author wrote a novel about the psoriasis-stricken Peter and his depressed father George Caldwell, the latter a representation of the title mythical being. In another novel, this author created the seductive devil Darryl Van Horne, and the title women, Alexandra Spofford, Jane Smart, and Sukie Rougemont, who acquire magical powers. He wrote of a recurring character who peddles Magi-Peelers and was a former high school basketball star. For 10 points, name this author of The Centaur and The Witches of Eastwick who wrote about Harry Angstrom in his Rabbit novels.
John [Hoyer] Updike
6

92462-)
One book by this man claims rights are derived from nature, not government, and refutes theexistence of "hereditary wisdom" of nobility. That work caused this man to be tried in absentia forlibel against the author of Reflections on the Revolution in France. This man argued that nothing but"blood and ashes" results from governments run by "crowned ruffians" in a work that outlines areplacement for the (*) Magna Carta. In that work this author of The Age of Reason asserted that no islandcan rule an entire continent and compares Britain to an evil mother for not allowing colonial independence.For 10 points, name this American political activist and writer who kickstarted the American Revolutionwith his pamphlet Common Sense.
Thomas Paine [or Tom Paine]
5

92466-)
This poem lists "patriarchs of the infant world" and "hoary seers of ages past" as inhabitants ofa place whose "solemn decorations" include "the venerable woods," "rivers that move in majesty,"and "hills rock-ribbed and ancient as the sun." This poem urges the reader to "go forth under theopen sky, and list to Nature's teachings" when certain (*) thoughts "come like a blight." It waspublished by the North American Review when its author was only seventeen, though this poem was laterexpanded to include an exhortation to "go not, like the quarry slave at night" but to "approach thy gravelike one who wraps the drapery of his couch about him" and lie "down to pleasant dreams." For 10 points,name this "meditation on death" by William Cullen Bryant.
"Thanatopsis"
5

92485-)
This author created a character who rails against "capitalist svine" and constantly claims that the "days grow hot, O Babylon!" He wrote a trilogy of plays centering on the murder of Ezra Mannon and another play that climaxes when Theodore Hickman arrives in Harry Hope's saloon. Another play by this author centers on the struggles of various members of the Tyrone family. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Mourning Becomes Electra, The Iceman Cometh, and Long Day's Journey into Night.
Eugene [Gladstone] O'Neill
6

92505-)
A poem by this man asks "Will we walk all night through solitary streets?" In that same poem, Walt Whitman is seen "childless, lonely old grubber, poking among the meats." This author of "A Supermarket in California" also wrote a poem that is noted for repeating the word Moloch and contains such nonsense lines as "Robot apartments! invisible suburbs!" The narrator of that poem by this author laments having seen "the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness." For 10 points, name this beat poet of "Howl."
[Irwin] Allen Ginsberg
6

92519-)
This character's birthday is May 8. She trades the fish she catches at The Hob, a black market inDistrict 12. After the reaping, she volunteers to take her sister Primrose's place. Her tumultuousrelationship with Peeta continues and changes through Catching Fire and Mockingjay. For 10 points,name the protagonist of Suzanne Collins' "Hunger Games" series.
Katniss Everdeen [accept either underlined name]
1

92523-)
Characters in this novel include the Zoroastrian Fedallah (feh-DAH-lah), a Native American calledTashtego, and a South Sea islander named Queequeg (KWEE-KWAIG). This novel's narrator begins bytelling the reader to "call me Ishmael" and ends up clinging to a coffin when the captain of the Pequodand all but one of his crew are drowned. For 10 points, Herman Melville wrote what novel about Ahab'squest for the white whale?
Moby-Dick (or The Whale)
1

92548-)
One of this author's characters kills his rival Spitz while working for Francois (frahn-SWAH) andPerrault (pair-OHL). Another of his characters is taken to Santa Clara, California, where he saves JudgeScott from a murderer. The central figure of one of his novels avenges the killing of his master Thorntonbefore going on to lead a wolf pack; that figure is the Buck from The Call of the Wild. For 10 points,name this author of White Fang.
Jack London
1

92558-)
One of this man's short stories talks about how the reverend Mr. Hooper refuses to remove the titularcloth from his face. In addition to The Minister's Black Veil, he wrote a novel that tells of ArthurDimmsdale's affair with Hester Prynne, which results in his being branded with an "A." For 10 points,name this American author of the House of the Seven Gables and The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
1

92570-)
This poet delivered "The Gift Outright" at President John F. Kennedy's inauguration. One of hispoems observes that "good fences make good neighbors" and is called "Mending Wall." His poem"Nothing Gold Can Stay" notes that "Nature's first green is gold." For 10 points, name this poet whostated in his most famous poem that he took "the road less traveled by, and that has made all thedifference."
Robert Lee Frost
1

92583-)
This character listens to a Mice Men record and wears velvet to a party at Norman Fishbein's house.Her favorite place is the fountain at Lincoln Center. After moving to Farbrook, New Jersey, this studentof Miles J. Benedict Jr. is recruited by Nancy Wheeler to join the four PTS's. For 10 points, name thistwelve-year-old raised in a non-religious household, who calls out to God in a book by Judy Blume.
Margaret Ann Simon [prompt on Are You There, God? It's Me, Margaret]
1

92587-)
This poet commented on a literary assignment in "Theme for English B." Another of his poems asks if"a dream deferred" "dr[ies] up like a raisin in the sun." He wrote about the Euphrates, Congo, and Nile in"The Negro Speaks of Rivers." In his most famous poem, he mentions the "droning" of "a drowsysyncopated tune." For 10 points, name this African-American poet of the Harlem Renaissance who wrote"The Weary Blues."
James Langston Hughes
1

92603-)
In one of this man's stories, Bill and Sam kidnap the title bratty son of Ebenezer Dorset. In addition to"The Ransom of Red Chief," he wrote a work in which Jim and Stella buy a comb set and a watch chainfor one another but end up sacrificing the watch and the hair for which the gifts were meant. For 10points, name this writer of the collection The Four Million, which contains his short story "The Gift of theMagi."
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
1

92632-)
This author of After the Fall and All My Sons wrote in another play about Willy Loman committingsuicide to give insurance money to his family. In another play by this man, John Proctor and Giles Coreyare executed after accusations are made by Abigail Williams and Mary Warren. For 10 points, name thisAmerican playwright of Death of a Salesman and The Crucible.
Arthur Asher Miller
1

92641-)
One novel by this man sees a recurring protagonist help to rescue his friend Chingachgook's betrothedWah-ta!-wah from the Hurons. This man wrote another novel in which the angry Magua (MAHG-wah)tries to kill Cora Munro, and the title person is not the protagonist Hawkeye, but rather Uncas (UN-kass) .For ten points, name this author whose Leatherstocking Tales include The Deerslayer and The Last of theMohicans.
James Fenimore Cooper
1

92646-)
In this novel, Bob Sheldon and Randy Adderson take part in an attack on Johnny, causing Johnny tofear for his life. Johnny and his best friend meet two girls at a theater, who turn out to be their attackers'girlfriends, Marcia and Cherry. Later in this novel, Johnny tells Ponyboy to "stay gold," just before hedies of injuries sustained in a fire. For 10 points, identify this novel by S.E. Hinton.
The Outsiders
1

92650-)
One trilogy by this author deals with the rise and fall of the Snopes family. Most of his stories takeplace in Yoknapatawpha (YOKE-nah-pah-TAH-fah) County, including one in which Shreve is told thestory of Thomas Sutpen. That novel, Absalom, Absalom!, is narrated by Quentin. In this man's mostfamous novel, Benjy Compson reminisces about his childhood with Caddy. For 10 points, name thisSouthern author of The Sound and the Fury.
William Cuthbert Faulkner
1

92678-)
Two characters in this short story vie for the hand of the daughter of a wealthy farmer, Baltus. In this story, the protagonist paces around a lightning-struck tulip tree and worries that he will meet Major John Andre. The protagonist of this story, who is the rival of Brom Bones for the hand of Katrina Van Tassel, encounters a cloaked rider at an intersection who chases him all the way to the Old Dutch Burying Ground. For 10 points, name this short story by Washington Irving about Ichabod Crane and a Headless Horseman.
"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"
6

92694-)
One of this author's characters, according to Gavin Stevens, has a vocabulary of two words: "No" and "Foreclose." That character from Frenchman's Bend was created by this author, who wrote a novel in which Lena Grove searches for her baby's father. This author created a character who loves a golf course because it reminds him of his sister Caddy in a novel he wrote that is partially narrated by Benjy and his Harvard-educated brother, Quentin Compson. For 10 points, name this Southern Gothic author of Light in August and The Sound and the Fury.
William [Cuthbert] Faulkner
6

92741-)
In one play by this man, Grandma dies on a beach after a Young Man exercising nearby revealsthat he is the angel of death, and in another, a character named A reminisces while B takes care of A,and C tries to get A to deal with legal matters. Two characters created by this author of The Sandboxgot married because of a "hysterical pregnancy," while another couple he created has a (*) fictionalson who "dies" in a car wreck after swerving to avoid a porcupine. A play by this man includes acts entitled"Walpurgisnacht," in which characters play "get the guest," and "Fun and Games," in which Nick andHoney drink with George and Martha. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Three Tall Womenand Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Franklin Albee III
5

92752-)
In one short story by this author, King Aben Habuz sets up a weathervane to symbolize theinstability of his power and, and in another, that king consults an "Arabian Astrologer" to secure hiskingdom. This author cited the historiographer Mateo Ximenes to support those stories, which arecollected alongside "Mementos of Boabdil" and "The Court of Lions." Fictional personae employedby this author of Tales of the (*) Alhambra include Jonathan Oldstyle, Diedrich Knickerbocker, andGeoffrey Crayon, whose "Sketch Book" includes the story of the competition for the hand of Katrina VonTassel between Brom Bones and Ichabod Crane. For 10 points, name this author who described theHeadless Horseman in his short story "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."
Washington Irving
5

92757-)
An essay about this character points out the absurdity of his ability to determine the frayedness ofa hole from 100 yards away and proposes that this character should appear in the "Broken TwigSeries". This character, his friend, and his friend's son lead three contingents of the Delaware on araid. In a novel in which he appears, this character's enemy (*) Magua leads Cora and Alice, ColonelMunro's daughters, into an ambush on their way to Fort William Henry, though they are eventuallyrescued with the help of Uncas. This character and his friend Chingachgook attempt to ease the conflictbetween the Huron and the Mohicans. For 10 points, name this hero of James Fenimore Cooper'sLeatherstocking Tales.
Natty Bumppo [accept either; or Hawkeye; or La Longue Carabine; or Pathfinder; or Deerslayer; accept Leatherstocking before mentioned]
5

92775-)
In a novel by this man, the transvestite Randolph helps Idabel's friend Joel recover from pneumonia contracted after Joel ran away from Skully's Landing, the home of his quadriplegic father Edward. In one of his books, an affair with Jose Ybarra-Jaegar leads to a pregnancy that ends in a miscarriage due to a horseback ride through Central Park. A character created by this author of (*) Other Voices, Other Rooms has to wake up Mr. Yunioshi in order to get back into her apartment and visits Sally Tomato in Sing Sing. He also wrote a book in which Dick Hickock and Perry Smith kill a Kansas family. For 10 points, name this author of the nonfiction novel In Cold Blood, who created Holly Golightly in his novella Breakfast at Tiffany's.
Truman Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons]
5

92797-)
A doctor in this book wrongly believes that a mob will lynch him for refusing to leave his office toattend to a girl killed in a buggy accident. While writing his sermons in a bell-tower, a reverend inthis book watches Kate Swift and becomes infatuated with her. The teaching career of one characterin this work ends when a mentally disabled student mistakes his friendly (*) caresses for romanticadvances. Wing Biddlebaum, the protagonist of the story "Hands", is one of several people to confide in theyoung reporter George Willard in this work, which opens with a prologue called "The Book of theGrotesque". For 10 points, name this cycle of stories set in a Midwestern town, by Sherwood Anderson.
Winesburg, Ohio
5

92809-)
One observer of these creatures claims to be from Whirly Wood, Connecticut, and that characterlikes to chew candles and eat the olives from her mother's martinis. Another observer of thesecreatures calls a fellow elevator passenger a "sneak" for looking at his feet. These creatures are firstseen from atop a rubber float after "two snobs" snub a wave. These creatures (*) swim into holes,where they eat as many as seventy-eight pieces of fruit and die after growing too fat to get back out. Afterseeing these creatures, one character goes back to the hotel room where his wife Muriel is sleeping andshoots himself. For 10 points, name these creatures seen by Sybil Carpenter and Seymour Glass in a shortstory by J.D. Salinger about a "Perfect Day for" them.
bananafish
5

92833-)
This man posited that part of the basis of the Torah was written by a woman named J. In one of this man's works, he claims that poets misread their predecessors to write original works. Another of his works attacks the "School of Resentment" and includes four appendices that list a large number of supposedly important books. This author of The Anxiety of Influence gives pride of place to Shakespeare in his definition of The Western Canon. For 10 points, name this Yale professor and literary critic.
Harold Bloom
6

92852-)
In a work by this author, a man named "Himself" describes his fall from celebrity status that was brought on by an additional appendage. This author of The Man Who Had Three Arms wrote a play in which the elderly A reminisces about her life to B and C, who are younger versions of herself. This author of Three Tall Women wrote a play in which Nick reveals that he married the preacher's daughter Honey because of a suspected pregnancy during a visit with the embittered couple George and Martha. For 10 points, name this author of Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward [Franklin] Albee [III]
6

92876-)
This character has a "dead man" in his tent named Lieutenant Mudd. While this man is in the hospital, he signs some of his letters as Washington Irving, which prompts an investigation. The first time this character sees the chaplain, "It was love at first sight." This character, who is stabbed by Nately's whore and goes AWOL in Rome, is flying a mission over Avignon when Snowden dies his arms. Claiming insanity does not excuse him from flying more missions. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Joseph Heller's Catch 22.
Captain John Yossarian [accept either underlined part]
6

92892-)
The speaker of this work is described as "stout as a horse, affectionate, haughty" and "of the foolish as much as the wise." This work describes taking "the exact the dimensions of Jehovah" and "buying drafts of Osiris." The speaker answers, "The beautiful uncut hair of graves" to a child asking "What is the grass?" in this poem, whose speaker claims that "every atom belonging to" him belongs to the reader as well, because he is large and contains multitudes. For 10 points, name this 52-section poem found in Leaves of Grass, in which Walt Whitman celebrates and sings himself.
Song of Myself
6

92990-)
This character becomes his team's leader after defeating Spitz in a final fight. After being sold toMercedes, Hal, and Charles, he is rescued by John Thornton. His devotion to Thornton is total; he savesThornton's life from a drunken miner and from river rapids. (*) For 10 points, what dog stolen from Californiabecomes a Yukon sled dog in Jack London's The Call of the Wild?
Buck
1

92999-)
This author wrote a story in which the inhabitants of Lagash experience darkness for the first time. Alongwith "Nightfall," this author wrote a series of novels featuring the investigative interactions of Elijah Baleyand R. Daneel Olivaw. Hari Selden invents the science of psychohistory in this author's novel (*) Foundation.For 10 points, name this Russian-American science fiction writer who depicted the Three Laws of Robotics in hiscollection, I, Robot.
Isaac Asimov [or Isaak Yudovich Ozimov]
1

93017-)
In this book, the French general Montcalm shows one character a letter from General Webb, whichprompt ons a long march during which a massacre occurs. The beginning of this novel sees Colonel Munro'stwo daughters being escorted to Fort William Henry. The evil Magua kills Uncas and Cora only to be shotlater by (*) Natty Bumppo in this work. For 10 points, what second novel of James Fenimore Cooper'sLeatherstocking Tales is titled for the sole survivor of a Native American tribe?
The Last of the Mohicans
1

93020-)
One character in this story is sold by her father and is partially deaf. The protagonist reveals himself toPrincess Pea and is then sentenced to death in the dungeon. Spoons, bowls, kettles, and soup are outlawedafter the queen dies of fright when a (*) rat falls in her food. For 10 points, name this 2004 novel which became a2008 film, a Newbery Medal winner by Kate DiCamillo.
The Tale of Despereaux
1

93033-)
In one novel by this author, Robert Cohn and Jake Barnes both pursue Lady Brett Ashley as they travelthrough Spain. In another novel by this author, Catherine loves an American soldier fighting in World War I,Frederic Henry. In one of this man's novellas, (*) Santiago goes eighty-four days without catching a fish. For 10points, name this author of The Sun Also Rises, A Farewell to Arms, and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest Hemingway
1

93126-)
This character tells two others throw twenty dollars into the river, instructions which are ignored by the funeral director West but followed by the old retiree Holloway. Her cat is reincarnated when its grave is anointed with the blood of a man who is killed by his mother Ruby. Her housekeeper, "Black Mary," helps her prepare and dress a corpse. This character fashions a boat out of a bill of sale, and uses it to send Solly Two Kings on a mystical journey to the City of Bones. She owns the house at (*) 1839 Wylie, which Old Joe and Sterling try to protect from the real estate developer Harmond Wilks. This character dies at the age of 366 in King Hedley II. For 10 points, name this ancient mystic who appears or is mentioned in Radio Golf, Two Trains Running, Gem of the Ocean, and other plays by August Wilson.
Aunt Ester Tyler
9

93149-)
The aristocratic spy Von Stinnes appears in this author's first novel, which is named for its protagonist, Erik Dorn. While with the Chicago Daily News, this author helped implicate Carl Wanderer in the "Case of the Ragged Stranger" and wrote a popular column called 1001 Afternoons in Chicago. One of his written works was an adaptation of James H. Street's story "A Letter to the Editor", in which Oliver Stone sends the reporter Wally Cook to interview Hazel Flagg, who is supposedly dying of radium poisoning. This author and Charles MacArthur wrote a play about tabloid reporter Hildy Johnson; that play, The Front Page, was adapted into the movie His Girl Friday. His play The Great Magoo was adapted into Some Like it Hot, which along with his work on Spellbound, Notorious, and other films led to his being nicknamed the "Shakespeare of Hollywood". For 10 points, identify this first (*) winner of the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay, an American screenwriter who shares his surname with the poet of "The Dover Bitch". 
Ben Hecht [do not accept "Anthony Hecht"; also do not accept "Charles MacArthur", since MacArthur didn't work for the Daily News; do accept Erik Dorn until "this author" is read]
9

93161-)
This speech suggests that "defeats in which nobody loses anything of value" result from filling one's "workshop" with "anything but the old verities and truths of the heart." A speech quoting and updating this one, but given by a different orator, opens by noting how Antonio Pigafetta found "tongueless pelicans" and "clawless birds" in Latin America. This speech praises the focus of "young men and women" who toil in the "agony and sweat of the human spirit" to "create something which did not exist before." It mocks those who think that the presence of a "puny inexhaustible voice, still talking" after the "last dingdong of (*) doom has clanged" suggests that man is immortal, instead saying "I believe that man will not merely endure: he will prevail," despite the threat of nuclear war. Gabriel Garcia Marquez quoted this speech on the same occasion thirty-two years later, appropriately given that this speech's author helped inspire the town of Macondo. For 10 points, name this 1949 speech, addressed to young writers, given in Stockholm by the recently recognized author of The Sound and the Fury.
William Faulkner's Nobel acceptance speech [prompt on Faulkner's speech or partial answers; or William Faulkner's Banquet Speech; or the acceptance speech for the 1949 Nobel Prize in Literature]  
9

93186-)
In this story, a writer has to stop playing the song "Betty Co-Ed" in his head because he invariably turns the lyrics into an obscene parody. At the end of this story, one character asks, "Why should the people be operated on without an aesthetic?" as another character plays "La Cucaracha," the "tune of the real revolution." Another character in this story recalls screaming "Oh Lord, may he hit it out of the lot!" while listening to an Oakland A's game and prays for Notre Dame because it represents Our Lady. A writer in this story concludes that "Bread is the (*) opium of the people" after getting angry at a Marxist who claims it is religion. That writer, Mr. Frazer, is in a Montana hospital when a Mexican gets brought in with a wounded belly. For 10 points, name this Ernest Hemingway short story set in a hospital  where Sister Cecilia cares for the poker player Cayetano.
"The Gambler, the Nun and the Radio"
9

93188-)
In this work, one "blued gun-barrel" colored creature was tamed after a week of throwing itself against the door of a corn crib, and Uncle Ash sleeps on a kitchen floor throughout this story. This story's protagonist notes that a plantation "was never mine to repudiate" before giving it to his cousin and becoming a carpenter. The title character of this story is first antagonized with a fyce and later killed with assistance from Kate the Mule. That title character is defeated by (*) Lion the mastiff and Sam Fathers, who are also killed in the struggle. Appearing between "The Old People" and "Delta Autumn," this story ends with Boon Hogganbeck shouting when confronted by Isaac McCaslin. Old Ben is the name of, for 10 points, what title animal of a William Faulkner story in the collection Go Down, Moses?
"The Bear"
9

93192-)
The narrator of this story, possibly hallucinating, sees 3 or 4 drops of "ruby-colored fluid" drop into his wife's wine out of thin air. The opium-addled narrator of this story purchases an English abbey containing a pentagonal bridal chamber with sarcophagi from Luxor at each of the five vertices. The title character of this story twice declares that "Man doth not yield himself to the angelsÂ…save only through the weakness of his feeble will," a quote supposedly from (*) Glanvill that also provides its epigraph. This story's protagonist marries Lady Rowena Trevanion, who apparently dies of illness before coming back to life in the form of the title character, who had died soon after hearing a poem about a blood-red monster that devours humans in front of weeping angels. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allan Poe short story containing the poem "The Conqueror Worm."
"Ligeia"
9

93213-)
The final scene of this poem takes place under the "chalk-dry and spar spire" of a church. One character in this poem is a "fairy decorator" who'd "rather marry" than operate his shop, and another "seemed to leap from an L.L. Bean catalogue." After seeing "love-cars" with "lights turned down," the narrator of this poem hears his "ill-spirit sob in each blood cell" while listening to a car radio bleat and realizes (*) "I myself am hell." This poem opens by describing "Nautilus Island's hermit heiress" and later remarks that "nobody's here" except for a creature with an "ostrich tail" that "will not scare" while swilling a garbage pail. For 10 points, name this poem that pairs a small town's decay with the nocturnal activity of the title creature, a work of Robert Lowell.
"Skunk Hour"
7

93233-)
After this character's girlfriend warns him that he will be accused of rape, he imagines rape as "what one felt when one's back was against a wall and one had to strike out." The author who created this character described 5 real people from his youth who inspired this character in the essay "How [this character] Was Born." This character pulls a knife on his friend Gus in a poolroom in order to avoid having to follow through on their plans to (*) rob Blum's store without appearing cowardly. In the section of the novel in which he appears titled "Flight," this character runs away when a group of newspaper reporters discover an earring inside of a furnace. Jan Erlone arranges for the lawyer Boris Max to defend this character for the crime of the murder of Mary Dalton. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Richard Wright's Native Son.
Bigger Thomas (accept either)
7

93241-)
The third stanza of this poem describes how "dictators" talk "elderly rubbish" "to an apathetic grave." At the end of this poem, the speaker resolves to "Show an affirming flame" after noting that like "the Just," he is composed "Of Eros and of dust." In the second stanza of this poem, the speaker claims he knows "What huge imago made / A psychopathic god" before noting that (*) "Those to whom evil is done / Do evil in return." The speaker asserts that "What mad Nijinsky wrote / About Diaghilev / Is true of the normal heart" and later proclaims "We must love one another or die." As this poem begins, the speaker notes he is "uncertain and afraid" as he "sit[s] in one of the dives / On Fifty-Second street." For 10 points, name this poem by W.H. Auden, whose title refers to the first day of World War II.
"September 1, 1939"
7

93265-)
One part of this poem is a reference to Joseph Goebbels's claim that the failing Nazis would "slam the door" on the world. Inspired by a stay in the Yorkshire Dales, this poem describes statues which "doubt antimythological myth." This poem mentions people who move "at times arm in arm, but never, thank God, in step" and those who, "really reckless," were tempted by "the (*) oceanic whisper: 'I am the solitude that asks and promises nothing.'" Near its end, the speaker states that "when I try to imagine a faultless love or the life to come, what I hear is the murmur of underground streams." For 10 points, name this poem that begins "If it form the one landscape that we, the inconstant ones, are consistently homesick for, this is chiefly because it dissolves in water," written about karst topography by W.H. Auden.
"In Praise of Limestone"
9

93270-)
This man wrote a novel laid out largely in two columns, with the left column in bold type representing Frank Cahill's internal monologue and the right, in regular type, the third-person narrator. This author of Alnilam compared the whistling of his dying mother to the men who performed on the wings of airplanes at barnstorming shows in a poem about the "thousand variations of one song." He read the line "Moth-force a small town always has" at the beginning of the poem he composed for the (*) inauguration of Jimmy Carter. This poet of "Buckdancer's Choice" and "Strength of Fields" also wrote a novel in which Ed Gentry climbs a steep cliff in order to kill a white-bearded man with a bow and arrow, following Drew Ballinger's death by gunshot and the loss of one canoe. For 10 points, name this author who described Bobby Trippe's rape at the hands of a pair of mountain men in his novel Deliverance.
James Dickey
9

93416-)
One character in this set of works lies in an open grave in the snow on a trip to a cemetery, shortly before learning that his father has just died of cancer. Another character in this series locks his son in a darkened room for nine years to reverse the effects of the Tower of Babel by redeveloping prelapsarian language, a theory he falsely claims to have discovered in a manuscript by Henry Dark. In a section of this series in which all the character names are colors, Blue is hired to watch Black from an (*) apartment across the street. In the third volume of this work, an unnamed narrator is made literary executor for Fanshawe, an author who has disappeared. The protagonist of the first volume of this work is hired to prevent Peter Stillman from killing his son. That protagonist is a writer named Daniel Quinn who is mistaken for a private investigator. Consisting of Ghosts, The Locked Room, and City of Glass, for 10 points, name this set of three postmodernist detective-fiction-inspired novels by Paul Auster, all set in the namesake city. 
The New York Trilogy [prompt on City of Glass, Ghosts, and The Locked Room, before mentioned] 
9

93433-)
In a short story by this author, Mother Rigby creates a living scarecrow that falls apart after it looks in the mirror and sees its "real composition." The antagonist of another of his stories claims that Tophet is the "crater of a half-extinct volcano" and that a supposed door to hell leads to a cavern used to smoke ham. A third story by this writer concerns an "Outcast of the Universe" who leaves his (*) wife and lives in a house across the street for twenty years for no apparent reason. This author of "Feathertop" and "Wakefield" was the dedicatee of Moby Dick, and he described a dream-journey through the terrain described in John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress in "The Celestial Railroad." For 10 points, name this American author of the short story "Young Goodman Brown" and the novel The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
9

93450-)
The protagonist of a novel by this author, while at Saxon College, attempts to take in the pregnant Wild Child, who dies after being hit by a car. In a short story by this author, a woman thinks that Hakim-a-barber is named "Asalamalakim" after he greets her with the Arabic for "peace be upon you." This writer collaborated with Pratibha Kumar on the documentary Warrior Marks and wrote a novel whose protagonist works on voter-registration with her former lover, Truman Held.  This author wrote an essay about discovering Zora Neale Hurston's unmarked tomb that helped (*) revive the reputation of Their Eyes Were Watching God. In a short story by this author,  the college-returned Dee tells her mother her name is "Wangero Leewanika Kemanjo" and requests some ancestral quilts, which her mother then gives to Dee's fire-scarred sister Maggie. This author of "Everyday Use" and Meridian wrote an epistolary novel in which Shug Avery helps restore the self-worth of the much-abused Celie. For 10 points, name this African-American "womanist" who wrote The Color Purple.
Alice Walker
9

93460-)
[missing]
[missing]
9

93479-)
This poet's disintegrating marriage inspired a poem that complains, "for your arrogance and your ruthlessness, I am swept back where dead lichens drip dead cinders." Another poem by this author is spoken by shepherds who note that they "fled inland to their flocks," but return to the sea and claim, "We have always known you wanted us." A third poem by this writer concludes by asking if the title flower can "drip such acrid fragrance, hardened on a leaf?" This author of "The Helmsman" and "Sea Rose" also wrote a roman a clef that represents (*) her lover, Frances Gregg, as Fayne Rabb.  This author's best-known poem tells the sea, "whirl your pointed pines" and "cover us with your pools of fir." This author of HERmione often took subjects from classical myth, as in the long poem Helen in Egypt and the shorter poems "Eurydice" and "Oread."  For 10 points, name this imagist poet who typically went by her initials.
Hilda Doolittle [or H.D.; I guess Richard Aldington is also true of that first clue, so accept that until "shepherds" is read]
9

93483-)
The title character of this work breaks off a relationship with Amy Lawrence, and states that the first two disciples were David and Goliath, after receiving a prize Bible at Sunday school. With Joe Harper, the title character of this work spends a week living as a pirate, and then appears at his own funeral, after the town of St. Petersburg, including his Aunt Polly, believes he has drowned in the Mississippi. For 10 points, name this novel in which Injun Joe commits a murder witnessed by Huckleberry Finn and the title character, a work by Mark Twain.
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer 
6

93509-)
The protagonist of this novel dreams of finding her grandmother wearing a mustache like a circus ringmaster; that occurs after its protagonist leaves the Denckman Circus when a lioness stops pacing and nearly cries upon seeing the girl next to her. In this novel's final scene, a prophecy that "one dog will find them both" comes true when the protagonist blacks out in an abandoned chapel before her friend gets on all fours, howls, and attacks her dog. T.S. Eliot wrote an introduction to the first edition of this book, which begins in Vienna as Hedvik Volkbein dies giving birth to Felix in its first section, (*) "Bow Down." Its most famous section consists of a rant by the cross-dressing drunk Catholic doctor Matthew O'Connor. Sculptor Thelma Wood was the basis for its character of Robin Vote, who roams the streets of Paris and becomes the lover of Norah Flood. For 10 points, name this novel about lesbianism by Djuna Barnes.
Nightwood
9

93520-)
The author of this work asserts that he would write the word "Whim" on his door-frame while shunning "father and mother and wife and brother," an illustration of his "doctrine of hatred." This essay remarks that in great works of art "our own rejected thoughts...come back to us with a certain alienated majesty." The author of this essay tells a cruel abolitionist to love his infant rather than "black folk a thousand miles off," calls any dollar given to "the thousandfold Relief societies" a "wicked dollar," and asserts, "Your (*) goodness must have some edge to it--else it is none." In this essay, a friend of the author suggests that the author's impulses may be "from below," to which the author responds that he would "live then from the Devil." This essay compares society to a "joint-stock company" where "the virtue in most request is conformity." For 10 points, name this essay claiming that "a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds," a famous writing by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
"Self-Reliance"
9

93522-)
A wise man in this text tells of a worker whose hand-balm saved a prince in battle to mock a friend who destroyed a giant gourd he could have turned into a raft. In another passage of this text, two gods try to repay a third who has no holes in his body by boring seven holes in him, but accidentally kill him. This text is divided into seven authentic "inner chapters," fifteen "outer chapters," and eleven "miscellaneous chapters." (*) Guo Xiang wrote the best-known commentary on this text, which includes various debates between Hui Shi and the title character, who argues for relativism by noting that he cannot know whether he is "actually" a man or an insect thinking he is a man. For 10 points, name this Daoist text most famous for describing its namesake's "butterfly dream."
the Zhuangzi
9

93543-)
In an essay on the composition of this poem, its author describes its rhythm as a series of modulations and mentions the unexpected rhyme at the end of a line about "the brute curiosity of an angel's stare." This poem asks "What shall we say of the bones, unclean, whose verdurous anonymity will grow?" This poem ends with the image of a "decomposing wall" and a serpent hiding in a mulberry bush. Its author claimed that it was about solipsism and "active faith" in the essay "Narcissus as Narcissus." This poem is punctuated by four two-line stanzas with images of (*) leaves flying and crying. This poem, published in Mr. Pope and Other Poems, is about a man stopping at the gate of a graveyard, and begins "Row after row with strict impunity / the headstones yield their names to the element."  For 10 points, name this poem by Allen Tate which inspired Robert Lowell to write "For the Union Dead."
"Ode to the Confederate Dead"
9

93565-)
One this author's sonnets, written after the death of his wife in a tragic fireplace accident, declares that seasonsare "changeless since the day she died." One poem by this author begins with the line, "This is the forest Primeval."This author of "The Cross of Snow" and Evangeline wrote about a character who is married to Minnehaha and livesin Gitchee Gumee. In another poem, he perpetuated the "one if by land, two if by sea" myth about a silversmithduring the American Revolution. For 10 points, name this poet of The Song of Hiawatha and Paul Revere's Ride.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
6

93584-)
In one story by this author, a character poses the question "You ever ate a chicken that was twodays old?" to the atheist Hulga, after which that character, a Bible-seller named Manley Pointer,steals her prosthetic leg and runs away. She also wrote of a woman traveling to a reducing class atthe Y with her son Julian, whose dignity is offended by a hat-wearing (*) black woman who forbids herchild from accepting a penny. In another of her stories, a woman talks to Red Sammy at The Tower on theway to a vacation in Florida with her family; a panicking cat later causes that character's car to crash, afterwhich the Misfit kills her. For 10 points, name this author of "Good Country People", "Everything ThatRises Must Converge", and "A Good Man is Hard to Find."
Flannery O'Connor [or Mary Flannery O'Connor]
5

93611-)
A man attempts to retrieve a pair of tennis shoes from this character's home following his death. He learns thatthe love of his life got married while studying at Trinity College in Oxford, where he enrolled after dropping out ofSt. Olaf's. He is found dead in his pool the afternoon he tells his gardener not to drain it. Owl Eyes is the onlyperson to read the books in this man's library. He promises to take the fall for the death of Myrtle Wilson to protecthis love, Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this "Great" title character created by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Jay Gatsby [accept either; or James Gatz (accept either); accept The Great Gatsby]
6

93631-)
One character in this play, who laments the loss of her family's ancestral home because of "epic fornications,"was married to Allen Grey, who committed suicide after his homosexuality was revealed. Harold Mitchell is thesuitor of a woman in this play who hails from Laurel, Mississippi. A character in this play is raped andinstitutionalized, after which she claims to have "always depended on the kindness of strangers." For 10 points,Blanche DuBois and Stella and Stanley Kowalski appear in what Tennessee Williams play?
A Streetcar Named Desire
6

93650-)
This poet wrote that "Nature's first green" is "her hardest hue to hold." In another poem, he wrote of a"dimpled spider, fat and white" that is "holding up a moth." This author of "Nothing Gold Can Stay" and"Design" claimed to "outwalk the furthest city light" in his poem "Acquainted with the Night." He repeated the line"And miles to go before I sleep" at the end of his poem "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening." For 10 points,name this poet who wrote of two paths that "diverged in a yellow wood" in "The Road Not Taken."
Robert [Lee] Frost
6

93662-)
One character in this work has a flashback about going to a fraternity party and waking up covered in broken glass all because he thought "Sigma Nu" consisted of three Greek letters. Another character in this novel practices writing out her signature for her upcoming remarriage yet ends up signing with her current husband's last name. A school principal with acid reflux disease is among the casualties after John Voss opens (*) fire with an antique gun at his high school, although his friend Tick survives. In this novel, Tick's mother Janine ends up marrying a gym instructor known as the Silver Fox, Walt Comeau, who breaks his arm while arm wrestling Janine's ex-husband, Miles Roby, at the family diner. For 10 points, name this novel titled for a fictional town in Maine, which won the 2001 Pulitzer for Richard Russo.
Empire Falls
9

93678-)
This author wrote a novel in which Larry "Doc" Sportello investigates the life of a real estate developer. Theprotagonist of one of his works is the executor of the will of a character who invented the Tristero conspiracy. Inthat novel, he created a character who cheats on her husband Mucho with the lawyer Metzger. This author ofInherent Vice and creator of Oedipa Maas wrote a work in which Tyrone Slothrop searches for a V-2 rocket withserial number 00000. For 10 points, name this American author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow.
Thomas [Ruggles] Pynchon
6

93712-)
This entity is proud that "under his wrist is the pulse / and under his ribs the heart of the people." It flings"magnetic curses amid the toil of piling job on job." It is "bareheaded, shoveling, wrecking, planning" while "underthe smoke" and with "dust all over his mouth." This entity is described as a stormy, husky, brawling "Player withRailroads, "Stacker of Wheat," and "Hog Butcher for the World." For 10 points, name this "City of the BigShoulders" that titles a Carl Sandburg poem.
Chicago
6

93721-)
One character in this novel attempts to wash off a kiss in a brook. Governor Bellingham attempts to havethe protagonist's child taken away in this novel, in which three characters stand on a scaffold as a meteor passes.The daughter of the protagonist of this novel is referred to as a "demon offspring" and is named Pearl. In thisnovel, Roger Chillingworth is the disguised husband of the protagonist, who bore the illegitimate child of ArthurDimmesdale. For 10 points, Hester Prynne wears the title object of what Nathaniel Hawthorne novel?
The Scarlet Letter
6

93726-)
This author graded a number of his own works, giving the present work a C, in his Palm Sunday. He created acharacter who is the only man to ever send fan letters to the author of works used as filler in pornographicmagazines. This author, who created devoted Kilgore Trout fan Eliot Rosewater, wrote of Pontiac dealership ownerDwayne Hoover in Breakfast of Champions. In another of his novels, the main character becomes unstuck in time andtravels to the planet Tralfamadore. For 10 points, name this American novelist of Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut [Jr.]
6

93727-)
The main character in this novel does not like her sister's cat, Buttercup. The mayor's daughter, Madge Undersee,gives a pin to her friend in this novel, in which one character admits loving another in a television interview withCaesar Flickerman. Effie Trinket has pink hair and is disgusted by Haymitch's drunken antics in this novel, in whichRue becomes allies with the lead female. Its protagonist, who hails from District 12, sells food at the Hob with herfriend Gale. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Katniss Everdeen, the first in a series by Suzanne Collins.
The Hunger Games
6

93747-)
One character in this novel, Dale Harding, relinquishes his role as leader of the Acutes to the protagonist.Another of its characters commits suicide after he is found having sex with the prostitute Candy Starr. This novel'sprotagonist rebels by sitting in front of a blank TV during the World Series and pretending electroshock therapycauses him no pain. Its narrator, Chief Bromden, eventually smothers the protagonist, Randle McMurphy, who islobotomized by Nurse Ratched. For 10 points, name this novel about an Oregon psychiatric hospital by Ken Kesey.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
6

93769-)
In one of this man's stories, a character finds a tomahawk in a skull before speaking to a character who takes himaway because he forgot his Bibles. In that work, found in Tales of a Traveller, this author wrote of "Old Scratch," whooffers the title character Captain Kidd's treasure. This author of "The Devil and Tom Walker" wrote of a man whodisappears after being pursued by the Headless Horseman and of a character who falls asleep for twenty years. For10 points, name this American author of "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" and "Rip van Winkle."
Washington Irving
6

93798-)
In this work, Quimbo and Sambo violently beat the protagonist and Eliza escapes over the Ohio River with her baby. This work's title character meets Augustine after he saves little Eva St. Clare from drowning. He is sold to Master Haley and to (*) Simon Legree. For 10 points, name this book about a slave whose death sets the Shelbys' slaves free, a book by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life among the Lowly
1

93822-)
This novel's protagonist wants to become the fastest runner in the fifth grade, but that plan is spoiled by the girl who moves in next door. While this book's protagonist visits the National Art Gallery with his music teacher, that girl tries to (*) swing over the creek, but the rope snaps and she dies. For 10 points, Jess Aarons and Leslie Burke discover a magical land in what book by Katherine Paterson?
Bridge to Terabithia
1

93826-)
This man wrote poems like "maggie and milly and molly and may" and "i carry your heart with me." He chronicled his imprisonment during World War 1 in The Enormous Room. He wrote about "someones marry[ing] their everyones" and "sun moon stars rain" in "anyone lived in a pretty how town." (*) For 10 points, name this poet known for his unconventional use of punctuation and capitalization.
E(dward) E(stlin) Cummings
1

93835-)
One character in this book describes himself as the "shortest giant" and "tallest midget." The protagonist is instructed to follow a line forever and then turn left to find infinity. The protagonist is accompanied by Tock and the Humbug in a quest to rescue Rhyme and Reason from the Castle in the Air. (*) For 10 points, name this Norton Juster novel about Milo, who drives his toy car through the title object.
The Phantom Tollbooth
1

93849-)
One character in this novel is asked by Mistress Hibbins to join her in a witches' sabbath. After being delayed from going to Boston by Native Americans, the protagonist's husband, Roger (*) Chillingworth, meets with the protagonist in jail. Pearl is rumored to be fathered by the devil in, for 10 points, what novel in which Hester Prynne wears the title piece of cloth, a work by Nathaniel Hawthorne?
The Scarlet Letter
1

93865-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems describes spending "ten days and nights, with sleepless eye" watching a fit of hysterics brought on by some exceedingly humorous verses. In another poem, he describes how a certain type of person swears "with an 'I dew vum,' or an 'I tell yeou' " and concludes with the line "Logic is logic. That's all I say." This author of "The Height of the Ridiculous" also related the history of an object which fell to pieces on the hundredth anniversary of both its creation and the Great Lisbon Earthquake. In addition to writing (*) "The Deacon's Masterpiece," which tells of a "wonderful one-hoss shay," this man penned a poem about a "child of the wandering sea" whose final stanza begins "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul." For 10 points, name this Fireside poet, the author of "Old Ironsides" and "The Chambered Nautilus."
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
7

93871-)
At the beginning of this work, one character is told to nail a lightning rod atop his home in preparation for an approaching storm. Another character in this novel pretends to be the nephew of Miss Foley and is later revived as Mr. Electrico. At the climax of this novel, the librarian Charles shoots the Dust Witch with a wax bullet carved with a crescent symbolizing a (*) smile. Set in Green Town, Illinois, this novel sees Will Halloway and his father save Jim Nightshade from the clutches of the Illustrated Man, Mr. Dark, who runs a carnival with Mr. Cooger. For 10 points, identify this Ray Bradbury novel that takes its name from a line in Shakespeare's Macbeth and sees the impatient Jim and Will age by riding a carousel through time.
Something Wicked This Way Comes
7

93875-)
The protagonist of this novel encounters a hermit who shows him the heart of a hanged black man that he bought for two hundred dollars. A character in this novel saves the shit-eating idiot James Robert Bell from drowning in a river and later leads him around on a leash. That character frequently makes sketches of the surrounding wildlife and expresses a desire to become "suzerain of the earth" before declaring that (*) "War is god." The protagonist of this novel joins Captain White's militia after burning down a hotel with an earless man named Louis Toadvine. At the end of this novel, the judge dances nude with several whores in a saloon after confronting the kid in an outhouse. For 10 points, name this novel about the kid's adventures with the Glanton Gang of scalpers, written by Cormac McCarthy.
Blood Meridian or the Evening Redness in the West
7

93898-)
One character in this play recounts how he wiped his hands on his coat after asking Mr. Manders to come to dinner with his attorney Sol Fowler. In the opening scene of this play, Cal compliments another servant on her "frozen fruit cream" while they prepare to host a dinner for Mr. Marshall, a Chicago businessman. After Addie mentions "people who eat the earth," a character in this play who misses her estate at Lionette admits that she dislikes her son. In this play, a (*) wheelchair-bound character returns from John Hopkins hospital with Alexandra and realizes that Leo has stolen $88,000 in bonds from him to finance a cotton gin. Ending with Regina withholding heart medicine from her husband Horace, for 10 points, name this play featuring the Hubbard family by Lillian Hellman.
The Little Foxes
7

93913-)
This poem describes a figure with a "mythy mind" who "moved among us as a muttering king." Another stanza of this poem depicts "a ring of men" who "chant in orgyÂ… Their boisterous devotion to the sun." One character in this poem claims to be content when birds "test the reality / Of misty fields, by their sweet questionings" shortly after the narrator asks "Shall our blood fail?" This poem ends with the image of pigeons sinking "downward to darkness, on (*) extended wings" and repeats the phrase "death is the mother of beauty." A woman in this poem imagines "her dreaming feet" travelling to "Palestine / Dominion of the blood and sepulchure" and watches "the green freedom of a cockatoo." For 10 points, name this poem that features the musings of a woman in a complacent peignoir by Wallace Stevens.
"Sunday Morning"
7

93924-)
This author created a fictional author who wrote the equally fictional book, Venus on the Half-Shell. Thatfictional author, Kilgore Trout, appears in many of this man's works, including Breakfast of Champions andGod Bless You, Mr. Rosewater. He also wrote about a man who is abducted by (*) Trafalmadorians aftersurviving the firebombing of Dresden. For 10 points, identify this author who wrote about Billy Pilgrim inSlaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut
1

93938-)
In one poem by this writer, the speaker says that the title idea "perches in the soul." In addition to "Hope is the thing with feathers," this author wrote a poem that proclaims "I'm Nobody! Who are you?" and a poem that describes a "blue, uncertain, stumbling (*) buzz". A poem about a carriage ride with Death and Immortality was written by, for 10 points, what poet of "Because I could not stop for death," and "I heard a fly buzz when I died"?
Emily Dickinson
1

93942-)
He wrote his first novel, "This Can't Be Happening At Macdonald Hall" while still in seventh grade. Characters Bruno and Boots star in six of this author's other novels; since then, he has written four installments of the "39 Clues" series, including "One False Note" and "The Emperor's Code". The (*) "Swindle" and "On The Run" series were written by, for 10 points, what author of "Ungifted"?
Gordon Korman
1

93974-)
This novel's protagonist has a sister for whom he buys the record "Little Shirley Beans." The main character of this work loses the fencing team's equipment on the subway and has siblings named D.B, Allie, and Phoebe. That protagonist gets kicked out of (*) Pencey Prep, and walks around New York City complaining about the "phoniness" of the world. For 10 points, name this novel about Holden Caulfield by J.D. Salinger.
The Catcher in the Rye
1

93984-)
In this novel, one character has a vision of the destruction of Sandleford which ultimately turns out to be true. That character, Fiver, ultimately starts a search for a new home along with Hazel, BigWig, and Silver. After the title warren is found, a rival faction attacks the protagonists, who are a group of (*) rabbits. For 10 points, name this novel written by Richard Adams.
Watership Down
1

93994-)
One character in this novel asks the protagonist if he's happy; that character is Clarisse McClellan. Another character in this book sets herself on fire rather than leave her house. Professor Faber helps lead the main character away from the Mechanical Hound. The protagonist of this novel kills his boss Beatty by setting him on (*) fire. For 10 points, name this dystopian Ray Bradbury novel in which Guy Montag burns books.
Fahrenheit-451
1

93999-)
This poet wrote "I am most faithless when I most am true" in the poem "O, Think Not I Am Faithful." This poet included the refrain "we were very tired, we were very merry" in a poem in which the speakers give apples and pears to a beggar and ride back and forth on a ferry. The image of "clothes of a king's son, just my size" ends this author's poem about a mother who freezes to death trying to make clothes for her child. This poet of "Recuerdo" wrote that "the heart can push the sea and land farther away on either hand" in a poem that begins "all I could (*) see from where I stood was three long mountains and a wood." Her most famous poem ends "but ah, my foes, and oh, my friends Â— it gives a lovely light!" For 10 points, name this poet of "The Ballad of the Harp Weaver" and "Renascence" who wrote the lines "My candle burns at both ends; It will not last the night" in her collection A Few Figs from Thistles.
Edna St. Vincent Millay (or Nancy Boyd, apparently)
7

94019-)
One character in this novel watches a movie about a baboon who saves orphans from a fire, "Lonnie Comes Home Again." A policeman in this novel pushes the protagonist's car off a cliff after he is caught driving without a license. After following an advertisement for the "friendliest bed in town," this novel's protagonist sleeps with an obese prostitute named Leora; later, he decides to seduce Sabbath Lily, the nymphomaniac daughter of a man who once pretended to blind himself with lye, (*) Asa Hawks. After stealing a mummified dwarf, a young zookeeper in this novel kills a man dressed as the "the Great Gunga" and takes his gorilla suit. In addition to featuring Enoch Emery, this novel features a man who kills Onnie Jay Holy with his car after the latter begins preaching his own "Church of Christ Without Christ." For 10 points, name this novel about Hazel Motes by Flannery O'Connor.
Wise Blood
7

94056-)
One poem by this author ends "he spoke. And drank rapidly a glass of water." In that poem, a man praises the "heroic happy dead" and expresses his love for the "land of the pilgrims." One poem by this author contains the line "straightway the silver bird looked grave" and features a narrator who prays to see "Christ (of His mercy infinite)." In one poem, this author wrote of a man who rode a "watersmooth stallion" and asks "how do you like your (*) blueeyed boy / Mister Death?" One of this poet's title characters repeats "there is some shit I will not eat" after stating "I will not kiss your fucking flag" and is said to be, "unless statistics lie," "more brave than me: more blond than you." In another work of his, the husband of "noone" lives in a place with "up so floating many bells down." For 10 points, name this poet of "i sing of olaf glad and big" and "anyone lived in a pretty how town."
Edward Estlin Cummings
7

94088-)
This novel's narrator shoots photos of a young female model for an advertising campaign for Kitt'n Britches. At one point in this novel, the protagonist attempts to kill a deer, but freezes up after firing two of his four arrows and is unable to do so. One character in this novel haggles with the Griner Brothers and eventually gets them to drive several cars down to Aintry. At a store in this novel, one character engages in a banjo duet with an inbred (*) albino. In a famous scene in this novel, two shotgun-wielding men sodomize Bobby Trippe and make the protagonist perform oral sex, but they are driven off when one of them is killed by Lewis Medlock. For 10 points, name this 1970 novel about Ed Gentry's canoe trip on the Cahulawassee River in the backwoods of northern Georgia, written by James Dickey.
Deliverance
7

94102-)
This poet wrote a poem expressing his love for "dear mariners" "in every leaf" of his book, hoping that he will "be read, / In full rapport at last" "in cabin'd ships at sea." This poet wrote "a rude brief recitative / Of ships sailing the seas," "a chant for the sailors of all nations," and described the "vast similitude [that] interlocks all" while watching "the bright stars shining" in the poem "On the Beach at Night Alone." In one poem, he described witnessing (*) "crowds of men and women attired in the usual costumes" as well as the "clouds of the west" and the "flood-tide below me" "face to face." In one poem, he described how "the ship is anchor'd safe and sound, its voyage closed and done," and how a certain president "lies, / Fallen cold and dead." For 10 points, name this author of "O Captain! My Captain!" and Leaves of Grass.
Walt Whitman
7

94108-)
The presence of a skinny black puppy "with flame spots over his eyes" intensifies one character's sense of foreboding in this work, and that character later has a dream in which his son is reading from a book "as large as a house" before a sense of evil music awakens him. An appraiser in this work briefly loses his composure and fumbles the coin with which he was practicing legerdemain when he is visited by the protagonist. The main character and his family take shelter in Apolonia and Juan TomÃ¡s's house before fleeing into the mountains of the Baja Peninsula where trackers eventually shoot (*) Coyotito in the head. A couple's contented breakfast routine is shattered when a scorpion falls on their son and stings him in this novella, but a doctor refuses to treat the son. For 10 points, name this novella about the tragic events that follow Kino's discovery of a certain large and expensive item, a work by John Steinbeck.
The Pearl (or The Pearl of the World)
7

94124-)
In one scene of this play, two characters listen to a woman play piano with Count Zelinsky. In this play, one character writes a letter about rice pudding to be read if he dies and insults a poet who later dies of a monkey bite. In this play, Valentine does research about grouse population and a drawing of a man holding Plautus, a turtle, confirms the identity of another character. In this play's first scene, that character admits to engaging in a (*) "carnal embrace" in a gazebo, and it concludes with the protagonist awkwardly waltzing with the mute Gus. At the end of this play, the discovery of a letter about a dahlia reveals that Lord Byron did not kill Ezra Chater, frustrating the theories of Bernard Nightingale. For 10 points, name this play which features Hannah Jarvis's investigations about Septimus Hodge and Thomasina Coverly, set at Sidley Park in both 1809 and the present day and written by Tom Stoppard.
Arcadia
7

94131-)
One poem by this author features a preacher who imagines that God is lonely because no one will buy him a Coca-Cola, while another asks "who really gave two figs?" after describing soldiers who have orders to "deviseÂ… a type of hooded gaze." In one of this author's poems, the speaker claims to have "stole your births and your names" and says "Believe me, I loved you all." In that poem, this writer wrote "abortions will not let you forget," and she described (*) "two who are Mostly Good" in another work. In addition to writing about an "old yellow pair" eating dinner, this poet of "The Mother" also described patrons of the Golden Shovel who "sing sin," "jazz june," and "die soon." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Bean-Eaters" and "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Brooks
7

94148-)
One character created by this author is informed of his twitching face by Clay and realizes that he stands a chance of regaining his "faculties." In one work of this author, a woman tells her son that she is "vice-admiral Tannebaum;" that story centers on Lionel, who claims that the maid Sandra called his father a "thing that goes up in the air." This author wrote a story which ends with Sergeant X receiving a wrist-watch from the title character, who he had earlier seen at a choir practice and met in a cafe. Another story by this author features a girl who complains about (*) Sharon Lipschutz and a man who describes the bloating and starvation of the title entities before shooting himself in his hotel room. For 10 points, name this author who penned "Down at the Dinghy" and "For Esme: With Love and Squalor" and also wrote about Seymour Glass in "A Perfect Day for Bananafish."
Jerome David Salinger
7

94183-)
An aspiring concert pianist in this novel hangs himself in the shower and leaves a note reminding his mother to bring a set of mahjong rules to her friend's house. One character in this novel tells of how she nearly died after being given a dish of lobster that she believed was chicken a la king. The protagonist of this novel chips his tooth and breaks his leg while attempting to court an ice-skater using the name Alton Peterson, and breaks up with his girlfriend after having sex with an Italian prostitute named (*) Lina while on holiday in Europe. The protagonist of this novel relates his experiences with women he names "The Pilgrim," "The Pumpkin," and "The Monkey," as well as his attempts to free himself from his invasive parents Jack and Sophie. For 10 points, name this novel narrated to Dr. Spielvogel by a young Jewish bachelor, written by Philip Roth.
Portnoy's Complaint
7

94206-)
One character in this story is so happy that he commends his servant instead of beating him when that servant, Negrillon, fakes a leg injury and blows off his work. A character in this story is believed to have been abandoned at her parents' doorstep by a band of Texans, but her mother attributes the occurrence to Providence. At the end of this story, one character discovers a letter indicating that his mother was "cursed with the brand of slavery" after he had ordered that a (*) willow crib and a collection of gowns be hurled into a fire. In this story, the title character's mother runs away with her into the bayou after being ordered to leave by her disgusted husband Armand Aubigny. For 10 points, name this short story about a product of miscegenation in Louisiana, written by Kate Chopin.
"Desiree's Baby"
7

94207-)
In one of this author's works, Imogene Graham realizes she doesn't love Theodore Colville after a car crash, while another ends with the husband of Ben Halleck's love interest being shot in frontier Arizona. This author wrote about Conrad's death in a streetcar strike in one novel. One of his protagonists employs Zerilla Dewey as a typist and is interviewed by Marcia Gaylord's husband, Bartley (*) Hubbard. This non-Caldwell author of Indian Summer wrote about the anarchist Lindau, the racist Colonel Woodburn and the businessman Dryfoos struggling to control the magazine Every Other Week in one work. In another novel by him, Penelope marries Tom Corey and the title character thwarts a sale planned by Milton Rogers. For 10 points, name this author of A Modern Instance and A Hazard of New Fortunes, who wrote about a paint merchant in The Rise of Silas Lapham.
William Dean Howells
7

94209-)
In one of this author's short stories, the protagonist overcomes his cowardice while hunting with Wilson, but is shot by his wife Margot. In another of his stories, Harry regrets forgetting his original inspiration for writing while dying during a safari. This author of "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber" and "The Snows of Kilimanjaro" wrote a novel in which Jake Barnes falls in love with Lady Brett Ashley. For 10 points, name this author of The Sun Also Rises who described Santiago's struggle with a marlin in The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest [Miller] Hemingway
6

94237-)
This author wrote of his road trip across America with his poodle in one of his works. In another of his works, Cathy Ames leaves Adam Trask after they both move to Salinas. This author of Travels with Charley and East of Eden also wrote a novel in which Rose of Sharon breastfeeds a starving man. In that novel by this author, Jim Casy is killed by policemen for attempting to organize migrant workers into a strike after traveling with a family of Okies. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the Joad family's trek to California in The Grapes of Wrath.
John [Ernst] Steinbeck
6

94257-)
In one poem by this author, the speaker glorifies "the mechanics," "the carpenter," and other workers. In another poem by this author of "I Hear America Singing," the speaker laments the loss of a man who "lies/fallen cold and dead." That poem was written about Abraham Lincoln, who also inspired this man's elegy "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd." This author also wrote a poem that begins, "I celebrate myself, and sing myself." For 10 points, name this poet whose "O Captain! My Captain!" and "Song of Myself" are in his collection Leaves of Grass.
Walt Whitman [or Walter Whitman]
6

94270-)
In one play by this author, a female character carries on an affair with a Polynesian man named Avihenna. He wrote a work in which brother and sister Peter and Hazel become engaged to Lavinia and Oren. In another play by this author, in which Don Parritt commits suicides, characters like Piet Wetjoen, Larry Slade, and Jimmy Tomorrow voice their "pipe dreams" as they gather in Harry Hope's bar. Christine Mannon poisons her husband Ezra in another play by this author. For 10 points, name this author of The Iceman Cometh and Mourning Becomes Elcetra.
Eugene [Gladstone] O'Neill
6

94276-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems states that she is "certainÂ…of the spot" of heaven although she "never spoke with God" in "I Never Saw a Moor." The speaker of another poem by this author rejoices in anonymity and states "How dreary -- to be -- Somebody!" This poet of "I'm Nobody! Who are you?" wrote a poem in which the speaker takes a carriage ride with the title figure and Immortality. For 10 points, name this Belle of Amherst who penned "Because I Could Not Stop for Death."
Emily [Elizabeth] Dickinson
6

94303-)
This work begins by investigating the etymology of a word with a silent h, which may be cognate to a Scandinavian word for "roundness" and/or a German verb meaning "to roll." The narrator of this work listens to Father Mapple's sermon after meeting up with a "clean, comely-looking cannibal" in New Bedford. Its narrator is saved by the Rachel while floating on Queequeg's coffin as the only survivor from the Pequod. For 10 points, "Call me Ishmael" is the first sentence of what Herman Melville novel about Captain Ahab's hunt for a white whale?
Moby-Dick; or, the Whale
6

94314-)
In one of this man's works, people named Patel are mocked during a scene in a Chinese restaurant. One of this man's plays features Karen, who nearly tricks Bobby Gould into producing a movie. Another work by this author features Bob and his father Don, who is misled by Teach about the theft of a rare coin. Shelly Levene asks John Williamson for leads while Ricky Roma exploits clients in this man's play centering on real estate agents. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Speed-the-Plow, American Buffalo, and Glengarry Glen Ross.
David [Alan] Mamet
6

94343-)
One poem by this author begins "The instructor said 'Go home and write a page tonight.'" This author wrote the lyrics for the opera Street Scene, which was a collaboration with Kurt Weill. In another poem, this author states "I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young. I built my hut near the Congo and it lulled me to sleep." This poet of "Theme for English B" also penned "The Weary Blues." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "The Negro Speaks of Rivers," a leading figure in the Harlem Renaissance.
Langston [Mercer] Hughes
6

94367-)
This character is jealous of his next-door neighbor Charley, whose son goes on to argue before the Supreme Court. His boss, Howard Wagner, is obsessed with a new tape recorder. This character's brother Ben made his own fortune in Africa and Alaska. One of this character's sons stole a fountain pen from Bill Oliver. This character's infidelity caused one of his sons to drop out of school. For 10 points, name this father of Biff and Happy, the title character of Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman.
Willy Loman [accept either]
6

94394-)
In one poem by this author, the title character's beauty is compared to "Nicean barks of yore" and brings the speaker back "to the glory that was Greece, and the grandeur that was Rome." One short story by this author of "To Helen" sees its narrator, a man punished by the Inquisition, in a completely dark room with a massive hole in the center. In a poem by this author, the title figure repeats "nevermore." For 10 points, name this American author who wrote "The Pit and the Pendulum" and the poem "The Raven."
Edgar Allan Poe
6

94397-)
This poet described how the seasons were "changeless since the day she died" in a sonnet dedicated to his wife, who perished from burns suffered in a fireplace accident. This poet created a character who pauses at gravestones to see if they contain the remains of her lover Gabriel in a work that begins "this is the forest primeval." Another character created by this poet is Nokomis, whose wigwam stands by the shores of Gitche Gumee. For 10 points, name this American poet of Evangeline who created Minnehaha in The Song of Hiawatha.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
6

94451-)
At one point, this character travels with her husband to a tavern owned by the drunk Jim Hartsel - while there, her husband sells his dad's violin to Hartsel's wife for 20 gold pieces. This character names her first child "Eyes of the Sky" after a villager notices both she and the child have blue eyes. This title character of a novel originally called In the Name of the Law was based on a real woman the author met traveling with Abbot Kinney. This character elopes with the Italian shepherd Alessandro Assis, and they nearly die in a snowstorm before settling in the San Bernardino mountains. When Alessandro dies, she returns home to marry (*) Felipe Moreno, whose mother does not approve of her, because she is half-Scottish and half-Indian. She was created as a fictional outgrowth of the author's previous book, A Century of Dishonor. For 10 points, name this half-breed girl who titles the most famous novel by Helen Hunt Jackson.   
Ramona
9

94459-)
The penultimate poem in this collection was based on studies of Adam's son Seth by Esther Quinn and is titled  "Oleum Misericordiae". Three short poems titled 'Farm' appear in this collection, preceding a poem where the speaker meets a woman in a 'dark dream', 'the necklace of wishes alive and breathing around' her throat Â– that poem is 'Hop 'o my Thumb'. The first poem in this collection describes an evening outside a childhood country home and a summer storm and originally titled the work in which it appears. In addition to 'As One Put Drunk into the Packet Boat', this collection includes a poem that asks 'Is anything central?' and 'Are place names central?', that poem being 'The One Thing That Can Save America'.  The title poem in this collection describes (*) Pope Clement 'stupified' over the title object which is described as 'glazed, embalmed, projected at a 180 degree angle'. 'The right hand, bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer.' describes, for 10 points, the title object of this poetry collection written by John Ashbery, named for a painting by Parmigianino.
Self Portrait in a Convex Mirror
9

94483-)
In a novel by this author, Boo Boo Bronstein attempts to get himself kidnapped to extort one million dollars from his father. This author received an Oscar nomination for his screenplay adaptation of Women in Love and has spent the last few decades on a 3,000 page book called The American People: A History. A novel by this author is set in locations like Fire Island and graphically details the use of poppers and Quaaludes through the eyes of writer Fred Lemish. A famous essay of his published in the Native started "If this article doesn't scare the shit out of you, we're in real trouble," and was titled (*) "1,112 and counting." In a play, this writer fictionalized himself as Ned Weeks, the lover of the AIDS-stricken Felix Turner. For 10 points, name this author of the controversial novel Faggots and the play The Normal Heart, a gay activist who helped found ACT UP.
Larry Kramer
9

94495-)
Dennis Pelkis teaches a character to fly a plane in this novel, in which that character saves Emily Barton's life and is nicknamed "Hell's Angel" while working at the World of Darkness. One character in it learns of the Dredgeman's Revelation after reading The Spiritist's Telegraph and communicating with the deceased Louis Thanksgiving. The Bird Man pretends to help but then rapes the narrator, whose family practices Carnival (*) Darwinism after their mother Hilola dies of cancer. Along with Train Dreams and The Pale King, this finalist failed to win the 2012 Pulitzer Prize. It focuses on Ava, Osceola, Kiwi, and Chief Bigtree. For 10 points, name this 2011 novel by Karen Russell about a family that runs a bankrupt alligator-wrestling theme park in the Florida Everglades.
Swamplandia!
9

94521-)
In Act IV of this play, a woman swears on her boyfriend's mother's lucky cross that he is the only man she ever loved, but scares him by revealing she is not Catholic and her oath might not count. This play's protagonist says, "[Fog] makes me feel clean...as if I'd taken a bath"  while standing on a barge. The protagonist of this play reveals she ran away from her cousins' farm at age 16 after the youngest cousin, Paul, gave her "the wrong start" by raping her. The protagonist of this play first appears in (*) Johnny-the-Priest's Saloon, where she chats with Marthy Owen after asking for "A whisky--ginger ale on the side. And don't be stingy, baby!" In this play, an old sailor who frequently sings of "My Yosephine" and curses "dat ole davil sea" becomes frightened of his daughter's love for the Irish stoker Mat Burke. For 10 points, name this Eugene O'Neill play titled for a former prostitute who reunites with her father Chris Christopherson.
Anna Christie
9

94542-)
In one story by this author, a steel-loving MIT grad quits his job as an insurance clerk to go to Tennessee, where he returns a year later after an expedition to Peru. In another story by this author of "The Sensible Thing," Ardita Farnam throws The Revolt of the Angels at her uncle before her yacht, the Narcissus, is hijacked by a colonel's son. A more famous story by this author centers on a girl who quotes "Kubla Khan" before getting lost in a building and seeing a ghost; that character hails from Tarleton, Georgia and breaks off her engagement to a (*) Yankee with whom she visits a Confederate cemetery and a winter carnival. This author also wrote a story in which an Italian teacher escapes from a prison of aviators shaped like a glass bowl that later explodes. In that story, a boy from Hades, Mississippi travels with his friend from St. Midas' prep school, who lives in an enormous chÃ¢teau in five miles of unsurveyed territory, where his grandfather found a mountain-sized jewel. For 10 points, name this author of "The Offshore Pirate," "The Ice Palace" and "The Diamond as Big as the Ritz."
Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald
9

94585-)
This poem parenthetically calls the universe "a procession, with measured and beautiful motion" before aggressively asking, "do you know so much yourself, that you call the slave or dull-face ignorant?" This poem's speaker asserts that "to be with those I like is enough" and tells an anecdote about an old farmer who goes fishing with his five sons and his grandchildren. In another section of this poem, the speaker cries out that "books, art, religion" are "now consumed" in the midst of "limitless limpid jets of love, hot and enormous." The third poem in the (*) "Children of Adam" sequence, it dismisses a "sloven" who "does not know half his business" in its 7th section, framed as an effort to assist an auctioneer at a slave auction. The conclusion of this poem gives a list of things that are "of the Soul," which include "Strong shoulders, manly beard scapula, hind-shoulders, and the ample side-round of the chest." For 10 points, name this Walt Whitman poem praising the human form.
"I Sing the Body Electric"
9

94600-)
As this story opens, a woman recalls her grandfather's mansion with a double staircase that leads to the second story, as well as her nurse Caroline. Later, her son takes off his tie to look like a thug. Its protagonist, who wants to be a writer and sells typing machines, proceeds to annoy a man that is reading a newspaper when he asks him for a match. This story takes its title from a quote of (*) Pierre Teilhard de Chardin, and it was published in a namesake collection that also includes "Parker's Back" and "Revelation."At its climax, the female lead tries to give the cute boy Carver a penny, which angers Carver's mother. That incident causes her to have a stroke while walking home. For 10 points, name this story that describes a bus trip taken by Julian and his racist mother, a story by Flannery O'Connor.
"Everything that Rises Must Converge"
7

94609-)
One of this play's characters smacks two of his streetwalkers after they intimate he is a pimp. Act 2 of this play sees the celebration of the 60th birthday of one of its characters, who hasn't left the building in which this work is set for 20 years. Throughout this play, a pair of characters discuss why they left "The Movement," which was run by the anarchist mother of one of its characters. In its first act, we are introduced to Pat (*) McGloin, a man who seeks to regain his job as a police lieutenant. This play's characters include the "foolosopher" Larry Slade as well as Don Parrit, who jumps off a fire escape. For 10 points, name this drama named for the salesman Theodore Hickman, who tries to destroy the pipe dreams of the patrons of Harry Hope's saloon, a play by Eugene O'Neill.
The Iceman Cometh
7

94617-)
Characters in one novel by this author include a mysterious provost, who runs The Consortium, as well as a man who creates a virus that renders one third of all humanity sterile. In another of his books, the protagonist seeks out the Church of Illumination after failing to rescue a cardinal from drowning at the Fountain of the Four Rivers. (*) Rachel Sexton is the protagonist of another of his books, in which NASA investigates an extraterrestrial meteorite in Antarctica. This author of Inferno wrote about a man that murders four preferiti using the elements of fire, water, air and earth in a book which climaxes with a piece of anti-matter being detonated over Vatican City. For 10 points, name this novelist who created Robert Langdon, who appears in Angels and Demons.
Dan Brown
7

94645-)
One story by this author opens by commenting on the belief of metempsychosis in Hungary and concludes with Baron Frederick riding a fiery horse into a burning castle. One of his narrators tries to keep the writer Ernest in a mesmeric state while near the point of death, only for his body to liquefy after several months. A different story by this author describes eight men who are dressed up as orangutans that are burnt alive by the vindictive title dwarf. This author of (*) "Metzengerstein" and "Hop-frog" created a narrator whose house burns down after he uses a knife to gouge the eye out of Pluto, the title creature. In another of his stories, Fortunato is trapped behind a row of stones by the narrator Montresor. For 10 points, name this author of "The Black Cat," and "The Cask of Amontillado."
Edgar Allan Poe
7

94653-)
This character is described as having eyes that are "burning blue and ominous," but later they give off "a glare of red." At one point, he repeatedly exclaims: "Thou hast escaped me! Thou hast escaped me!", and he was previously held captive by natives for over a year. In Chapter 9 of the novel in which he appears, he is asked to determine the cause of the local (*) minister's melancholy. His last act is to write a will for his seven-year-old step-daughter. This doctor is called "The Leech," which foreshadows his own death after the death of his primary victim Arthur Dimmsdale. For 10 points, name this estranged husband of Hester Prynne, the main antagonist of Nathaniel Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter.
Roger Chillingworth [accept either name]
7

94690-)
 A phrase from this poem titles both an unfinished sequel to A Touch of the Poet and a KurtVonnegut story whose main character obsesses over home and garden magazines. Its fourth stanzabegins "Thanks for the heavenly message brought by thee". This poem describes "cold sea-maids"that "rise to sun their streaming hair" and describes an "irised ceiling" and a "sunless crypt". Iturges its subject to "leave thy (*) low-vaulted past" and to "let each new temple" "shut thee from heavenwith a dome more vast". It describes "silent toil" that spreads the title creature's "lustrous coil" andcommands "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul". For 10 points, name this poem about a creaturethat lives in a "ship of pearl", a work of Oliver Wendell Holmes.
"The Chambered Nautilus"
5

94693-)
One of this man's works ends with the narrator throwing a button into a river, thus helping UncleCaesar get away with murdering Major Caswell to protect Azalea Adair. He wrote a story in whichthe wannabe criminal Soapy is arrested for loitering after deciding to turn his life around. Thisauthor of "A Municipal Case" and "The Cop and the Anthem" wrote a story about Bill Driscoll andSam Howard's unsuccessful attempt to (*) kidnap the son of Ebenezer Dorset. In his most famous work,found in his collection The Four Million, Jim buys a set of elaborate combs for his wife, only to find thatshe had sold her hair to buy him a chain for the watch he'd just sold. For 10 points, name this author of"The Ransom of Red Chief" and "The Gift of the Magi".
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
5

94703-)
One character in this novel is a Vaudeville strongman who is crushed to death by a tractor. That character's son is forced to give sexual favors to a policeman and falls in love with a radio voice-over actor. Another character in this book saves Salvador Dali from suffocating and sets out to kill a German geologist while serving in the military in (*) Antarctica. That character works for Sheldon Anapol and studied magic under Bernard Kornblum, who helped him escape from Prague with that city's Golem in tow. In this novel, one of the title characters is inspired by Rosa Saks to create Luna Moth, after creating the Escapist with his cousin. For 10 points, name this novel about the comic book creators Sam and Joe, written by Michael Chabon.
The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay
7

94730-)
One character created by this author is the art student Marie, who boards with a chiropractor. In another of his plays, the gossip of Irma Kronkite and Christine damages the reputation of a schoolteacher. In that play, this author wrote about Alan Seymour, a bland businessman who tries to find work for his college friend, who appears shirtless on stage in several scenes. This author wrote a play set on (*) Labor Day featuring a title event that is skipped by Howard and Rosemary. This author wrote about Reuben Flood in his play The Dark at the Top of the Stairs. This author wrote a play whose title refers to Lola's dog, as well as another play in which Madge Owens decides to elope with Hal Carter after the title meal. For 10 points, name this author of Come Back, Little Sheba as well as Picnic and Bus Stop.
William Inge
7

94747-)
One absent-minded speaker created by this poet notices "All animals are smothered in their lairs" whose loneliness "includes me unawares."   This poet of "Desert Places" wrote "I shall laugh the worst laugh I ever laughed / I'm cursed" in a work whose speaker declares "But the world's evil. I won't have grief so if I can change it." In that work set on a (*) staircase, a man threatens to take a woman by force after Amy scolds him for his indifference to the death of their child. The speaker of another of his poems states "my little horse must think it queer to stop without a farmhouse near." For 10 points, name this poet of "Home Burial" who also wrote "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening" and "Mending Wall."
Robert Frost
7

94773-)
This author wrote "science irretrievably must die" in a dialogue featuring Acasto, Eugenio and Leander. He praises "thy little being [that] came" from "morning suns and evening dews" in a poem that states "if nothing once, you nothing lose, / for when you die you are the same." His mistreatment aboard The Scorpion inspired a 4-canto poem chronicling the abuse of (*) Americans aboard the title vessel. One of his speakers states "Smith with those charms, that must decay, I grieve to see your future doom."  This author of "The British Prison Ship" wrote that "The space between is but an hour, the frail duration of a flower" in a poem about a plant "that dost so comely grow." For 10 points, name this author of "The Wild Honeysuckle," and "The Indian Burying Ground," the Poet of the American Revolution.
Philip Freneau
7

94790-)
One character in this book got his nickname from Andrew Marvell's "Upon Appleton House." As it comes to a close, a purser and a surgeon discuss the influence of free will on muscle spasms after death. Its last chapter shifts tone and sympathizes with the death of its protagonist, who is the subject of a ballad about him "in the Darbies." Another character in this novella is a veteran referred to only as the (*) 'Old Dansker.' Set shortly after the Nore mutiny, its title character is impressed into service on the Bellipotent. During an interrogation by Captain Vere, the title character accidentally kills John Claggart, who had falsely accused him of conspiring to mutiny. For 10 points, name this posthumously-published Herman Melville novella about an innocent sailor.
Billy Budd
7

94807-)
One character in this play becomes a preacher after he dreams of three hobos from Bethlehem giving him a candle and a blue robe. Shortly before the action begins, a 340-pound man died after he fell into a well. Its backstory involves the craftsman Charles and four hobos being burned alive in a boxcar, and their spirits are thought to be the Ghosts of Yellow Dog. This play's characters include Reverend (*) Avery, as well as Lymon, who drives a truck full of watermelons to the house of Doaker Charles in the exposition. Set in the 1930's, it follows Ma Rainey's Black Bottom in its author's cycle of ten plays. This play contrasts the practical Boy Willie with his sister, the sentimental Berniece, who wishes to keep the title musical instrument. For 10 points, name this play by August Wilson.
The Piano Lesson
7

94840-)
At the spa town of Bad Karma in this novel, the porn star Margherita Erdmann murders a bunch of Jewish kids. It presents the story of Ensign Morituri, a man who survived kamikaze training. This novel's protagonist dreams of meeting Jack Kennedy and Red Malcolm after being flushed down a toilet; another section tells the story of Byron the light bulb. The protagonist is sent to the Casino (*) Hermann Goering in this novel's second section. Its character of Captain Blicero eventually sacrifices Gottfried and searches for the 00000 rocket. This novel's protagonist has his sexual conquests correlated with V-2 rocket strikes. For 10 points, name this novel centering on Tyrone Slothrop, the masterpiece of Thomas Pynchon.
Gravity's Rainbow
7

94842-)
Thomas Johnson was the first scholar to compile the variorum edition of this writer's works. One work by this author concludes "I dropped down and down and hit a world at every plunge and finished knowing;" a different work ends "I've heard it in the chillest land, and on the strangest Sea, yet never in Extremity, it asked a crumb of me." The lines (*) "'Hope' is the thing with feathers" and "I felt a funeral in my brain" begin two separate works of this poet, who created a speaker that "first surmised the horses' heads were toward eternity" after she "passed school, where children strove at recess." That poem by her describes a "carriage [that] held just ourselves and Immortality."  For 10 points, name this author of "Because I Could Not Stop for Death," a poet from Amherst.
Emily Dickinson
7

94858-)
One character in this work gives up his sole Eccles cake, which turns out to be stale. Near its end, one character blows into a whistle, but it fails to produce any noise; that character then talks into a tube with an offstage character that tells him his collection of food on a plate was mostly rotten. Its characters discuss the football teams of Villa and the Spurs, which hints that the setting of this (*) one-act play is Birmingham. It begins with a discussion about an old man who crawled under a lorry and died; the conversation later centers on the phrase "light the kettle." This play ends with one of its main characters about to kill the other after receiving instructions from the title conveyance. For 10 points, name this absurdist play about hitmen Ben and Gus, which was written by Harold Pinter.
The Dumb Waiter
7

94863-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

94873-)
This work claims "error bred in the bone" craves "what it cannot have," which is to be "loved alone." The speaker of this poem asks "Who can reach the deaf / Who can speak for the dumb?" It fears for "Children afraid of the night / Who have never been happy or good." This poem from the collection Another Time was disowned by the poet, an (*) Englishman who moved to America shortly before writing it. As it closes, the narrator wants to show "an affirming flame." The speaker of this poem believes "Accurate scholarship" can unearth what "huge imago made / A psychopathic god", referencing a man from Linz. The author hated this poem's line "We must love one another or die." For 10 points, name this W.H. Auden poem that bemoans the onset of the second World War.
"September 1st, 1939"
7

94880-)
This work's narrator tells his wife "I'd like to destroy you a few times in bed," a statement that is referred to later as "good destruction." Its protagonist recalls seeing Tristan Tzara dining with a potato-faced writer while in Paris. He later recalls his friendship with the writer Julian, who became disillusioned with the lifestyles of rich people. Its minor characters include the servant (*) Molo, who gives the main character whiskey-soda. This story opens by mentioning a dried and frozen leopard carcass, which foreshadows the death of the protagonist, who blames his wife Helen for holding him back in fulfilling his career as a writer. For 10 points, name this story by Hemingway in which Harry imagines a plane taking him to the title mountain.
"The Snows of Kilimanjaro"
7

94892-)
In one work, this author created a girl named Peggy Rogers who reads the quality of mercy speech from The Merchant of Venice. William Wyler directed a film version of another of production by this author, in which one character desires to build a cotton mill. Her works include one about the financial trouble of the Berniers sisters and their brother Julian. She created a bank teller named (*) Leo who is pressured into stealing railroad bonds. This author of Toys in the Attic wrote about Mary Tilford accusing Martha Dobie and Karen Wright of being lesbians in one play. Another of her plays concerns the Hubbard family, whose matriarch Regina schemes to collect the wealth of her husband Horace. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote The Children's Hour and The Little Foxes.
Lillian Hellmann
7

94896-)
This state is the setting of both Barren Ground and In This Our Life, two novels by native resident Ellen Glasgow. An author from here wrote about a pawnbroker whose irksome wife Dame Lisa is kidnapped by Koschei the Deathless in a book subtitled "A Comedy of Justice." A slave girl named Nancy who is severely mistreated by Sapphira Colbert was born and raised here in the final novel by Willa Cather. It is the setting of a book in which the title character is sold to Reverend Eppes for homosexual pleasure; later he axe-murders (*) Margaret Whitehead and imagines being reunited with her in heaven. That novel narrated by the lawyer Thomas Gray is set in this state and is William Styron's The Confessions of Nat Turner. For 10 points, name this state whose main intellectual center is Richmond.
Virginia
7

94914-)
In order to illustrate the principles of the universe, one character in this novel magically tosses a coin into the darkness and has it circle a firelight before it arrives back in his hand. That fatalistic character explains his note-taking of specimens with the line "whatever in creation exists without my knowledge exists without my consent." Its main character travels with filibustering irregulars led by (*) Captain White before he joins a posse that includes David Brown, a man who wears a necklace of human ears. After some convincing from Louis Toadvine, its protagonist travels with scalphunters who are lead by John Joe Glanton. For 10 points, the Kid travels with Judge Holden in what dark take on Westerns, which was written by Cormac McCarthy?
Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West
7

94926-)
One poet from this movement wrote of a man that "talks of reaping" and of a "Nocturne at Bethesda" in his collection Personals. A playwright from this movement depicted the Loving family in her play Rachel. The "dean" of this effort was a man who would eventually convert to Bahai, and who started a magazine to popularize Arna Bontemps and Angelina Weld GrimkÃ©. One poet from this movement demanded (*) "let it not be like hogs" in discussing the title action of his poem "If We Must Die." It was spearheaded by Alain Locke, and included a poet who wrote "Life for me ain't been no crystal stair" at the conclusion of his poem "Mother to Son." For 10 points, name this modernist poetic movement spearheaded by Langston Hughes.
Harlem Renaissance
7

94942-)
In one of his works, the protagonist believes that a portrait's expression is telling him "Get out of it as you can, my dear fellow!" after a woman tacitly proposes marriage to him. An old woman dies after crying "Ah, you publishing scoundrel!" at the literary biographer who is about to ransack her desk in that work by him. From 1907-1909, this author revised many of his works for the so-called New York Edition. The grief-stricken face of stranger in a graveyard causes the protagonist to fling himself on May Bertram's tomb in a work in which John Marcher realizes he has wasted his life waiting. In another work by this author of The Aspern Papers and The Beast in the Jungle, Mrs. Grose becomes the confidante of a governess who suspects that Flora and Miles are being haunted by the ghost of Peter Quint. For 10 points, name this American author of The Turn of the Screw. 
Henry James
7

94963-)
The speaker of one poem by this author looks to where he can "catch the gleaming of a random light" that indicates that the title entities are moving "out of sight and sound". In another poem, he told his addressees to be proud because "Thy name is writ on Glory's scroll / In characters of fire". People use an object that "grins and lies" so as to "let the world dream otherwise" in one of his poem by this author of "Ships That Pass in the Night". This author of "We Wear the Mask" wrote a poem in which old scars "pulse again with a keener sting" as the title animal beats his wings on the bars. That poem by this man is the source of the title of a Maya Angelou autobiography, I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings. For 10 points, name this African-American poet who wrote "Ode to Ethiopia" and "Sympathy".
Paul Laurence Dunbar
7

94975-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

94987-)
This literary character has five crates of oranges and lemons delivered to his doorstep every week. When he asks an orchestra to play Tostoff's Jazz History of the World, women swoon and fall silent. Lucille suggests that this man might be a German spy during a party this character hosts. Mentored by Dan Cody in his youth, this graduate of St. Olaf's frequently gazes at a bright green light at the end of the dock from his home in West Egg. This man is shot and killed by the husband of Myrtle Wilson, who is run over by his love Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this title character of a novel narrated by his neighbor Nick Carraway, a creation of F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Jay Gatsby [Accept The Great Gatsby.]
6

95019-)
The title character of a novel by this author is hired as a stagecoach driver on the suggestion of Harmon Gow. In another novel by her, a native of Apex divorces Count de Chelles after her divorce proceedings cause Ralph to commit suicide. This author of The Custom of the Country wrote a novel in which the protagonist marries May Welland but falls in love with her cousin Ellen Olenska. In addition to writing about Newland Archer, this woman wrote a novel in which Zeena's husband agrees to a suicide pact with Mattie Silver taking the form of a deadly sled ride. For 10 points, name this American author of The Age of Innocence and Ethan Frome.
Edith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones]
6

95040-)
To build a case against one character in this novel, the narrator buys a suicide note from Lily Mae Littlepaugh. One character in this novel devises the Great Twitch Theory, which exonerates people of responsibility for their actions. Its narrator's mother is married to Theodore Murrell, but she had previously carried out an affair with a man who protected the Southern Belle Fuel Company. In this novel, Adam Stanton learns from Tiny Duffy that his sister loves the sworn rival of Judge Irwin, leading to the assassination of Jack Burden's boss, Governor Willie Stark. For 10 points, name this novel inspired by the life of Huey Long and written by Robert Penn Warren.
All the King's Men
6

95045-)
One work by this author sees a woman trick her husband into thinking bluefish is poisonous and focuses on the Miller family. In another of this playwright's works, the widower Ephraim is mocked as a cuckold after his new wife Abbie is impregnated by his son Eben. Orin and Lavinia appear in this author's trilogy about the Mannon family, modeled after an Aeschylus trilogy. He also wrote a play about about the morphine-addicted Mary and the alcoholic, James, Jamie, and Edmund, who make up the dysfunctional Tyrone family. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Mourning Becomes Electra and Long Day's Journey Into Night.
Eugene Gladstone O'Neill
6

95050-)
This poem declares that the world compares a "speechless babe" to a "gray-headed man." It asks the reader to "go forth under the open sky" and suggests that "thou shalt lie down / with patriarchs of the infant world." The narrator of this poem implores the reader to "take the wings / of morning, pierce the Barcan wilderness / or lose thyself in the Oregon woods." This poem instructs, "approach thy grave / Like one who wraps the drapery of his couch" and is addressed "to him who in the love of nature holds / communion with her visible forms." For 10 points, name this meditation on death by William Cullen Bryant.
"Thanatopsis"
6

95089-)
This character fixes a medical device with a pen, so that it will stay operable for another ten minutes. He meets Dr. Remington and Mr. Pritchard-Mitford while operating on a close personal friend of Roosevelt who is suffering from a "tertiary obstreosis" of the ductal tract. At one point, this character ignores Lieutenant Berg and revs up to 8,500 because he "ain't afraid of Hell." This character drives fifty-five miles per hour when his wife asks him to go forty, and imagines himself piloting a hydroplane or facing a firing squad while buying puppy biscuits. For 10 points, name this title character of a James Thurber short story about his "Secret Life."
Walter Mitty
6

95091-)
The narrator of this poem differentiates his own beliefs from those of hunters by claiming that they "would have the rabbit out of hiding / to please the yelping dogs." A compromise before creating the title object of this poem involves "loaves" and "balls," which this poem's two central figures command to "stay where you are until our backs are turned!" The narrator of this poem questions a request by another man by stating that "here there are no cows." That man worries that the narrator's "apple trees willÂ…get across / and eat the cones under his pines," so he repeats the line "Good fences make good neighbors." For 10 points, name this poem by Robert Frost.
"Mending Wall"
6

95108-)
In one of this author's stories, John Endicott breaks up a festive wedding after deciding that Edgar and Edith are having too much fun. Robin hopes to be apprenticed to a man who gets tarred and feathered in another short story by this author of "The May-Pole of Merry Mount," who wrote about Widow Wycherley and Colonel Killigrew sampling the Fountain of Youth in one short story. In a novel by this man, Pearl is born to the wife of Roger Chillingworth but is the daughter of the reverend Arthur Dimmesdale, forcing Hester to mark her clothing with an "A" for adultery. For 10 points, name this American author of "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment" and The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
6

95117-)
The set of one play by this author consists of a lone chair in front of a guard tower in a concentration camp, to show that the play takes place in Quentin's head. A fight between Rodolpho and Eddie Carbone ends another play by this author. The title character experiences hallucinations in which he speaks to a diamond tycoon, his older brother Ben, in a better known work by this author of After the Fall and A View from the Bridge. That play sees Howard Wagner fire the father of Biff and Happy, who proceeds to commit suicide so his family can start a new life with his insurance money. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Death of a Salesman.
Arthur Asher Miller
6

95133-)
This author mused "I have walked into Perigord, I have seen the torch-flames, high-leaping" in apoem about Narbonne, Excideuil and Rochecoart, "Provincia Deserta". Bertrans de Born cries"May God damn for ever all who cry 'Peace!'" in another poem by this author, who wrote of a manwho seeks to "resuscitate the dead art of poetry" in his (*) Hugh Selwyn Mauberley. This author of"Sestina: Altaforte" described "the apparition of these faces in the crowd" as "petals on a wet, black bough"in "In a Station of the Metro". Sections like "Rock Drill" make up his longest poetic work, which usesChinese characters and expresses approval of fascism in its "Italian" and "Pisan" sections. For 10 points,name this Imagist poet of The Cantos.
Ezra Weston Loomis Pound
5

95142-)
Around his neck, this character wears a silver dollar and a lock of hair which is later seized andthrown into a fire. He helps carry a basket of hot bread rolls for a drunk woman named Prue whotells him about how her child died when her milk dried up. Despite his trouble writing the letter G,he succeeds in writing a letter to his wife Chloe. This character, who was inspired by (*) JosiahHenson, has a vision of Jesus that inspires him to refuse to divulge information about Cassy and Emmeline.While traveling on a steamboat, he jumps overboard and saves the drowning Eva St. Clare. George Shelbyarrives too late to save this character, who is flogged to death by Simon Legree's overseers. For 10 points,name this title slave of a Harriet Beecher Stowe novel.
Uncle Tom
5

95382-)
In a short story, old Mr. Gookin and a character with this profession grab the protagonist and lead him to a flaming rock. In a chapter titled for a man with this job "in a Maze," that character almost teaches swear words to some children after his own daughter washes his kiss off in a forest brook. A character with this profession asks "why do you tremble at me alone?" on his deathbed, years after he is left by his fiance Elizabeth. A man with this job holds (*) hands with two other characters while watching a meteor on a scaffold where he later collapses and dies on Election Day. This is the job of Mr. Hooper, who constantly wears a black veil. For 10 points, give this profession of Arthur Dimmesdale, the lover of Hester Prynne in Hawthorne's The Scarlet Letter.
minister [accept reverend, parson, or other obvious equivalents like preacher, pastor, or priest]
7

95499-)
One character in this book, Joe Montgomery, took the protagonist's wife to Jones's Beach one evening. A waiter named Loving Cup works at the Apollo Restaurant, which serves as a front for a criminal syndicate in this novel. Its central character is a member of the Lantenengo Street crowd who first appears when Irma Fliegler wonders if he and his wife are having another "battle royale." The protagonist of this novel dances with Helene Holman, who is revealed to be the girlfriend of the gangster Ed Charney. This novel's central character despairs about the departure of his wife Caroline and the imminent bankruptcy of his motor company. Those circumstances, and throwing a drink in Harry Reilly's face, lead this novel's protagonist to start his car in a closed garage. This book takes its title from a legend about a Baghdad merchant meeting Death in the title city. For 10 points, name this book about the final days of Julian English, the first novel of John O'Hara.
Appointment in Samarra
9

95508-)
Among the works of intellectual thought discussed in this book are the sociological treatise Cannibals All! and a long poem praising Guillaume Cale's exploits during the Jacquerie. Its other sections concern the travels of John Trowbridge, as well as the personal experiences of Charlotte Forten. Its introduction compares humans' capacity for destruction to a scene from a Disney movie in which a sea slug eats another sea slug. The diaries of Kate Stone and Mary Chesnut are discussed in this book's chapter on women writers. This book was responsible for sparking academic interest in the novels The Invisible Empire and A Fool's Errand, which portray the atrocities of certain government policies. This study takes its title from "Maryland, My Maryland" and includes chapters on Grant's memoirs and the speeches of Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points, name this book, subtitled "Studies in the Literature of the American Civil War," which was written by Edmund Wilson. 
Patriotic Gore: Studies in the Literature of the American Civil War 
9

95530-)
In one of this author's memoirs, he describes how he clung to platform boards beneath a train to get to General Kelly's Army. He then later commandeered a giant raft on the Des Moines River and named it The Pirate. Both of those incidents happened while he was travelling with Coxey's Army, which is recounted in his memoir The Road. This writer built an estate called Beauty Ranch that is fictionalized in his novel about Billy and Saxon Roberts. This writer claimed that funny drinkers were the ones who could see blue mice and pink elephants in his alcohol memoir John Barleycorn. The title character of one of his novels insults Judge Blount and helps publish Russ Brissenden's Ephemera. That character is a sailor-turned writer who becomes engaged to Ruth Morse. Another of this writer's novels chronicles the rise of the Oligarchy in North America before the Brotherhood of man overthrows it. For 10 points, name this author of Martin Eden who also wrote the socialism novel The Iron Heel. 
Jack London
9

95542-)
In a memoir named for this substance, the teacher Mr. Calhoun is impressed by the author's recital of the Pluto and Proserpina story. A novel partially titled for this stuff, in which the protagonist earns $175 for his short story "Long Lost Hills," is the third of four novels its author wrote about Arturo Bandini. Miss Habersham and Aleck Sander unearth a grave only to find Jake Montgomerie's corpse, and not Vinson's, in another novel named for this substance. It partially titles a Los Angeles novel by John Fante. Another novel named for this noun begins with a black farmer rescuing "Chick" Mallison from an icy creek. It also appears in the title of an autobiography that recalls its author's tutelage under Franz Boas and the creation of Mules and Men. A book partially named for this substance is a murder mystery centering on Lucas Beauchamp. For 10 points, name this substance that modifies "tracks on a road" in a Zora Neale Hurston memoir, and in which there is an "intruder" in a William Faulkner novel. 
dust [accept Ask the Dust or Intruder in the Dust or Dust Tracks on a Road] 
9

95578-)
One character in this play cleans his teeth with a gold toothpick. While on trial, one character in this play states that, after he read about a black man who was killed in Georgia, he wished he was in Georgia with a pair of guns so that he could lynch the black man himself. Near the end of this play, the protagonist learns that in past incarnations, he existed as a monkey, a builder of Egyptian pyramids, a slave who fought in the Carthaginian wars, and a serf. Characters in this play include the remorseful corpse Shrdlu, and Daisy, with whom the protagonist talks while in the Elysian Fields. It ends after Lieutenant Charles tells the protagonist that his soul will be recycled, and he will be sent back to earth. In an earlier scene, the main character of this play was going to be replaced by the title object at his job, which leads him to murder his boss. For 10 points, name this Expressionistic play about Mr. Zero, by Elmer Rice.
The Adding Machine 
9

95606-)
The narrator of this novel had youthful feelings for a violin-playing character only referred to as "she of the brown eyes." During a performance of Gounod's Faust, this novel's protagonist unmistakably sees his father and his sister. This book closes with the narrator remarking that he has sold his birthright for a mess of pottage. Its narrator resolves to go to college after his mother dies in Connecticut, but the theft of his $400 causes him to take up cigar rolling in Jacksonville. The protagonist of this novel travels across Europe with his millionaire benefactor while cultivating his talents in the ragtime genre before settling down as a composer in the South. A lynching in Georgia causes the protagonist to leave the South and go to New York City, where he abjures his heritage. It was written by the author of "Seven Negro Sermons in Verse" called God's Trombones. For 10 points, name this novel about a black man who passes as white, by James Weldon Johnson. 
The Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man 
9

95642-)
A stage direction in this play reads "there is chaos behind the civility, of course." In an essay about this play, its author wrote that originally, this play was going to be about a doctor who gives himself AIDS. In act two, the male lead of this play recalls how he stopped to purchase vegetables at a roadside stand and saw the title figure, which caused him to feel an entirely pure love. This play begins with its male lead being interviewed about designing the World City in the Midwest and the Pritzker Prize that he just won. Shortly afterwards, the protagonist shows his good friend Ross a picture of his paramour. After clashing with their homosexual son Billy in this play, the central couple destroys all of the furniture in their house in a rage that ultimately causes Stevie to kill the title figure and bring her on stage. This play takes its title from a line in The Two Gentlemen of Verona and focuses on Martin, who has an affair with the title figure. For 10 points, name this Edward Albee play named for an animal. 
The Goat [or Who is Sylvia?] 
9

95668-)
This book's ambiguous final section describes how a "young man waits at the edge of the concrete, with one hand he grips a rubbed suitcase of phony leather, the other hand almost making a fist, thumbs up." An Austrian polo player in this novel named Max murders the Cuban Tony, who had earlier helped a woman escape from her rapist stepfather, Mandeville. A character in this novel tries to exploit his brother's status as a war hero to help advertise his Ford dealership. This novel, which concludes with the section "Vag," includes biographies of Rudolph Valentino and Thorstein Veblen. This novel includes the line "all right we are two nations," referring to the Sacco and Vanzetti trial, in one of its "Camera Eye" sections. In this novel, Margo Dowling becomes a movie star, and the pilot Charley Anderson dies after descending into alcoholism. For 10 points, name this 1936 novel by John Dos Passos, the final installment in the U.S.A. trilogy. 
The Big Money [prompt on "U.S.A. (trilogy)"] 
9

95676-)
This book's second chapter discusses a student in a French class who delivers a 45-minute talk about how to make fish soup to satisfy an assignment that he speak for 5 minutes, illustrating the culturally significant phase "to speak of all kind of things." In a chapter on "The Eight Questions," this book describes how two people would likely say that Yer's slamming of a door frightened another person's soul out of her body, necessitating a txiv neeb to sacrifice pigs and chickens. It mentions Congressman Tony Coelho and the characteristics of a good shaman in a discussion of its title phrase, a translation of qaug dab peg. This book, the bulk of which is set in Merced, California, describes growing mistrust between Neil Ernst and Peggy Philip, and Foua Yang and Na Kao Lee, over the treatment of Lia Lee's epilepsy. For 10 points, name this work of medical anthropology in which Anne Fadiman chronicles "a Hmong child, her American doctors, and the collision of two cultures." 
The Spirit Catches You and You Fall Down
9

95695-)
Near the end of this novel, the protagonist witnesses the donkey John Brown jump off a balcony and hang himself from his reins at the Cloud Hotel, whose former occupants inspire the drifter Little Sunshine to say the title phrase. One character in this novel, whose throat was slashed by Keg Brown after she married him at fourteen, is alternately called "Missouri" or "Zoo" and is the granddaughter of the 100-year-old Jesus Fever. Another character in this novel tells of how he fell in love with a Spanish woman named Dolores, but then fell in love with her lover, a Mexican boxer named Pepe Sanchez, leading him to shoot and paralyze Pepe's manager, the father of this novel's protagonist. This novel is largely set at Skully's Landing, where Amy takes care of the paralyzed Mr. Sansom and the crossdressing Cousin Randolph has a homoerotic relationship with the protagonist, whose best friend, the tomgirl Idabel Thompkins, is based on Harper Lee. For 10 points, Joel Knox is the protagonist of what first novel of Truman Capote?
Other Voices, Other Rooms 
9

95719-)
In one of this man's works, the narrator travels to learn about the "system of soothing" fromMonsieur Maillard, whose asylum has actually been taken over by its patients. This author of "TheSystem of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether" wrote a work whose narrator murders his wife aftershe prevents him from killing Pluto, whose eye the narrator had earlier gouged out. This author of"The (*) Black Cat" and "A Descent into the Maelstrom" created a character whose motto is "No oneinsults me with impunity"; that character ignores cries of "For the love of God, Montresor!" while brickingup Fortunato in the catacombs. For 10 points, name this creator of C. Auguste Dupin who wrote "The Caskof Amontillado" and "The Tell-Tale Heart".
Edgar Allan Poe
5

95735-)
Late in this story, the narrator is asked if he knew the forger Monroe Edwards. Its narrator owns a plaster bust of Cicero and opens this story by describing himself as "an elderly man", recently promoted to Master of the Chancery. Its narrator returns from church one day to find that his key no longer works, which sparks a series of events ending in the title character being sent to the (*)Tombs for vagrancy and sleeping "with kings and counselors". The title character, a former employee of the Dead Letter Office, is hired to supplement the work done by Nippers and Turkey, but eventually stops working entirely. For 10 points, identify this entry from the Piazza Tales, a story by Herman Melville about a clerk whose mantra is "I would prefer not to".
"Bartleby, the Scrivener: A Story of Wall Street"
5

95763-)
The dedicatee of this poem is told, "now you're really in the total animal soup of time" in one of its sections. One figure described in this poem has fingers that are "ten armies" and eyes that are "a thousand blind windows." This poem describes "an eli eli lamma lamma sabacthani saxophone cry" and describes a "sphinx of cement and aluminum" that it connects to the god Moloch. The third section of this poem speaks directly to Carl Solomon and repeats the line, "I'm with you in Rockland." This poem begins with the speaker stating that he "saw the best minds of [his] generation destroyed by madness." For 10 points, name this poem by the Beat poet Allen Ginsberg.
"Howl"
6

95772-)
A character in one short story by this author receives a nickel for Christmas and declares that she will use it to buy a paper windmill. That character makes regular trips to Natchez to procure medicine for her grandson, who swallowed lye years ago. This creator of Phoenix Jackson in "A Worn Path" also wrote about the estate overseer Troy Flavin, who marries into the wealthy Fairchild family in one of her novels. Another of this author's novels sees Judge's eye surgery bring Laura McKelva Hand to New Orleans, where she deals with her stepmother Fay. For 10 points, name this Southern author of Delta Wedding and The Optimist's Daughter.
Eudora Alice Welty
6

95777-)
One character created by this author invents the alphabet and employs a maid whose tasks include tending to the family's mammoth. In that play, this author included a child who changes his name from Cain to Henry. Professor Willard opens the second act of one play by this author by describing the title location, which is inhabited by Joe Crowell, Jr. and Howie Newsome. Another of his plays follows an ice age, a flood, and other events that affect the Antrobus family. George Gibbs and Emily Webb get married in his most famous play, which is narrated by the Stage Manager from Grover's Corners. For 10 points, name this playwright of The Skin of Our Teeth and Our Town.
Thornton Niven Wilder
6

95799-)
One character in this novel divorces his third wife because she began a revolt on his yacht. Madame Sapphia Spanella circulates a petition to evict one character in this novel. That character buys this novel's narrator a birdcage and changes her name from Lulamae. In this novel, Mag Wildwood marries the gay millionaire Rusty Trawler. Another character in this novel abandons her much older husband Doc to pursue an acting career, during which she makes money transmitting messages to Sally Tomato in prison before escaping to Brazil to avoid indictment. For 10 points, name this novel about Holly Golightly written by Truman Capote.
Breakfast at Tiffany's
6

95816-)
The central crime in this story occurs while its victim is "making Buffalo Bill's show look like magic-lantern views of Palestine." This short story's narrator dreams about being chained to a tree by a redhead pilot until he hears the title character sitting on an accomplice's chest. That character, Bill, is hit between the eyes with a piece of brick, shot behind the ear with a rock, burned with a hot potato, and made to play Black Scout by the title character. That character of this story welcomes the chance to run away from his father, Ebenezer Dorset, although he is abducted for money. For 10 points, name this O. Henry short story about a child who pretends to be the titular Indian.
"The Ransom of Red Chief"
6

95842-)
One character in this novel loves the old, disobedient horse Doxology. Another character kills the madame of a brothel named Faye by poisoning her with strychnine over a period of four months. That character had earlier shot her husband in the shoulder with a .44 after giving birth to twin boys. In another episode in this novel, Lee discusses the Biblical translation of the Hebrew word timshel with Samuel and Adam. Aron enlists for World War I after discovering that his mother Cathy Ames runs a brothel in Salinas, as revealed to him by his brother Cal. For 10 points, identify this novel in which the Hamilton and Trask families move to California, a work by John Steinbeck.
East of Eden
6

95843-)
In one novel by this author, the sight of the title character causes Mr. Finley to choke to death on a chicken bone. Another character in that novel by this author proclaims that everyone should kill each other and themselves on National Suicide Day. In another novel, the death of marigolds indicates the death of Pecola's child, conceived when her father raped her. This author of Sula created a novel in which a woman names her newborn child Denver after the girl who delivers her, before the schoolteacher comes and threatens to take Sethe and her children back to Sweet Home plantation. For 10 points, name this African American author of The Bluest Eye and Beloved.
Toni Morrison
6

95855-)
Characters in this novel reminisce about Max Taber, who was "fixed" in a way they were not. The narrator of this novel sticks chewed pieces of gum underneath his bed to be re-chewed later and fears a fog machine. At the end of the first section of this novel, the main character shows his companions the World Series on an unplugged television. After a fishing trip in this novel, the prostitute Candy Starr helps the stuttering Billy Bibbit lose his virginity. Characters in this novel include Harding and a man who openly rebels against Nurse Ratched, Randle McMurphy. For 10 points, name this novel about a mental institution written by Ken Kesey.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
6

95868-)
The title creature of one of this author's poems "knew the old no more" and inhabits an area described as having "irised ceiling rent, its sunless crypt unsealed." In another poem, he declared that "harpies of the shore shall pluck / the eagle of the sea!" In one poem, he described a creature who "left the past year's dwelling for the new" and "spread his lustrous coil." The narrator of a poem by this author looks to a "ship of pearl" and exhorts, "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul!" Another poem by him begins, "Ay, tear her tattered ensign down!" and describes the USS Constitution. For 10 points, name this poet of "Old Ironsides" and "The Chambered Nautilus."
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
6

95884-)
The title character of one of this author's novels is impregnated by a Senator and tries to keep her daughter, Vesta, a secret from her next lover, Lester Kane. At a performance of Under the Gaslight, George Hurstwood cheats on his wife with the title actress of another novel by this author. In that novel, this author of Jennie Gerhardt created the character of Minnie, whose sister is given critical financial assistance by George Drouet. Another novel by this man sees the protagonist kill the pregnant Robert Alden to preserve his relationship with Sondra. For 10 points, name this creator Clyde Griffiths, an American novelist who wrote Sister Carrie and An American Tragedy.
Theodore Herman Albert Dreiser
6

95893-)
In one scene from this novel, the protagonist must fight off a plague of locusts. This novel's opening sees the protagonist go to the House of Hwang to purchase a wife, and he later tries to convince a girl to poison his mentally disabled daughter, nicknamed the "poor fool." At the end of this novel, the sons of the protagonist decide to sell their father's land despite his wishes, and this work forms a trilogy with Sons and A House Divided. This novel features the concubines Pear Blossom and Lotus Flower, as well as the protagonist's patient and loving wife O-Lan. For 10 points, name this novel about the Chinese farmer Wang Lung, written by Pearl S. Buck.
The Good Earth
6

95898-)
After nearly being hit by a car this character thinks is driven by his enemies, he realizes it was merely children who wanted to run him over for fun. At the end of the novel in which he appears, Granger leads this character back to his recently-destroyed city while he repeats lines from Ecclesiastes. This husband of Mildred rips pages out of a Bible until Professor Faber agrees to help him. This man kills his superior, Captain Beatty, shortly after the destruction of the house next to Clarisse McClellan's, and then turns his weapon on the Mechanical Hound. For 10 points, name this book-burning fireman, the protagonist of Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451.
Guy Montag [accept either]
6

95915-)
In one story by this author, a centenarian Civil War general dies during his daughter's college graduation. In another story by this author, Tom Shiftlet drives off after abandoning his mute wife at a bar. This author wrote a story in which Manley Pointer runs away with a prosthetic leg after attempting to sell a Bible to the Hopewell family, in addition to writing "The Life You Save May Be Your Own." This author of "Good Country People" itled one collection after a story in which June Star and the grandmother are shot by The Misfit. For 10 points, name this American short story writer of the collection A Good Man is Hard to Find.
(Mary) Flannery O'Connor
6

95929-)
Yidel Pankower hears a fabricated birth story in a novel by one author with this surname. In that novel, Albert abuses Genya, and his son David tries to repeat a surreal previous experience by shocking himself on an electrified rail. In addition to the author of Call It Sleep, Henry, another author with this surname wrote a novel in which Merry commits a bombing, and her father investigates Swede Levov. This creator of Nathan Zuckerman created a novel whose title character describes his sexual obsessions to Dr. Spielvogel. For 10 points, give the surname of the author of American Pastoral and Portnoy's Complaint, Philip.
Roth [accept Henry Roth or Philip Roth]
6

95949-)
One character in this play is quickly rebuffed after mentioning that Sonny Boy Maxwell had made a pass at her. That character speaks about her romantic involvement with her husband's best friend before being interrupted by Dixie. Characters in this play threaten each other with the crutch of another character, who attributes his drinking to disgust at his family's "mendacity." In this play, the onset of a spastic colon for a family patriarch leads Gooper and Mae to scheme to get an inheritance also sought by a couple in a loveless marriage. For 10 points, name this Tennessee Williams play about Maggie and Big Daddy Pollitt.
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
6

95959-)
This novel's protagonist falls in love with a woman whose ancestor Frans van der Groov killed all the dodos. A doctor in this novel creates Imipolex G, which is suggested as a source of the protagonist's talents during a chapter set in a casino named for Hermann Goering. In this novel, the statistician Roger Mexico discovers that one man's sexual exploits are governed by the Poisson distribution. This novel begins with the sentence "A screaming comes across the sky," and ends with the landing of a V-2 rocket. For 10 points, identify this lengthy postmodern novel about the paranoid Lieutenant Tyrone Slothrop, written by Thomas Pynchon.
Gravity's Rainbow
6

95978-)
One of this author's protagonists writes a set of articles for Harper's about the murder of Rick Lester by a black man. That novel follows Albert Corde's month in Bucharest. In another novel by this author of The Dean's December, Dr. Tamkin wastes the final savings of failed actor Tommy Wilhelm. The protagonist of another novel by this author is abandoned by his wife in favor of Gersbach and writes letters to Hegel and Eisenhower. Thea and Stella are romantically involved with Einhorn's well-traveled assistant, the "Chicago-born" title character of his breakout novel. For 10 points, name this author of Seize the Day, Herzog, and The Adventures of Augie March.
Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows]
6

95990-)
A character in one novel by this author paints toy animals for a living until poison from the paint leads to the amputation of her right fingers. In another novel by this author, Laura marries Curtis Gladwin, whose obsession with the wheat market causes their relationship to drift. Presley publishes a poem about the struggles of farmers in one novel from this author's Epic of Wheat trilogy. The title character of this author's most famous novel keeps a golden molar and kills his wife Trina. In that novel by this author, Marcus handcuffs himself to the title dentist so that they both die in Death Valley. For 10 points, name this author of The Octopus and McTeague.
Frank Norris
6

96014-)
This novel's author became an unwitting pioneer in product placement after receiving a lifetime supply of Orangeine, which is offered to overtaxed workers in Ms. Regina's shop. A panicked claim that the protagonist had been visiting a dressmaker raises suspicion over an innocent cup of tea at the Benedick in this novel, which includes several veiled discussions about collecting "americana." Its sexiest scene takes place in a garden at the Wellington Brys' after the protagonist presents herself as a Reynolds portrait and ends up kissing Gerty Farish's cousin. The protagonist's crippling bridge addiction drives off Percy Gryce, and she later rejects Simon Rosedale by burning love letters implicating Bertha Dorset, after a refusal to provide sexual favors to Gus Trennor triggers her ostracism from New York high society. Lawrence Selden discovers the overdosed body of Lily Barth at the end of, for 10 points, what novel by Edith Wharton?
The House of Mirth
7

96034-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

96039-)
The speaker of one poem by this author describes attending a meeting when he was seven where "everybody must have been a spy." That poem asks "When will you send your eggs to India?" The speaker of another of his poems parenthetically states "I touch your book and dream of our odyssey Â… and feel absurd." That poem describes a series of questions, such as "Who killed the pork chops? What price bananas?" and "Are you my angel?" In one poem, this author told the title country "Go fuck yourself with your atom bomb." A different poem by this author asks "What were you doing down by the watermelons?" to Garcia Lorca. This author's most notable poem describes the filth of the demon Moloch and repeatedly states "I'm with you in Rockland." For 10 points, name this author of "A Supermarket in California" and the poem "Howl."
Allen Ginsberg
7

96056-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

96066-)
One character in this work is revealed to have always dodged the draft by a year. Originally called The Sign of an Archer, this work sees a busybody complain that she does not want her doctor husband to go full time into medical research. Act II of this play opens with a broken tree being sawed up before the arrival of George, who had just learned some important facts from his father. Later in this play, we meet a character who claims that November 25th is a "favorable day" for an offstage character who later commits suicide. At its climax, Ann reads a letter revealing that Larry, the man she loved, committed suicide after finding out that his father and Steve Deever caused the deaths of many soldiers. For 10 points, identify this play whose backstory involves Joe Keller's faulty manufacture of airplane parts, a work of Arthur Miller.
All My Sons
7

96091-)
In one scene in this play, it is revealed that Siegfried recommended Miller to another lab where he will make poison gas. Near its beginning, Edna tells her husband that all of their furniture was taken away since they were unable to make payments on it. A conversation between Dr. Barnes and Dr. Benjamin in this play reveals that the latter will be fired because he is Jewish. The "fourth episode" of this play sees a mysterious Voice told by Fatt that he is a company spy. As it opens, the audience is included as part of a meeting that discusses the political climate, such as the inauguration of FDR. This play, which consists of a series of vignettes separated by blackouts, concludes with a man named Agate inducing a group to yell "Strike! Strike! Strike!" For 10 points, identify this play about a group of discontented taxi drivers, written by Clifford Odets.
Waiting for Lefty
7

96098-)
One poem by this author describes a youth encountering an assassin "attired in the garb of old day." In another poem by this author, a spirit stops a "maid with violets" from offering flowers to the grave of her lover. A collection by this author contains a poem about some angels above a church who wonder why the "little black streams of peopleÂ… stayed so long within." The speaker of another poem by him describes "many devils running, leaping and carousing in sin," one of whom calls him a "Comrade!" and a "Brother!" He described "a creature, naked, and bestial" in a desert that ate his own heart. This author began that aforementioned poetry collection "clang and clang of spear and shield, and clash and clash of hoof and heel" after the titular characters "came out from the sea." For 10 points, name this author of The Black Riders, a novelist who also wrote Maggie and The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane
7

96111-)
In a novel by Richard Brautigan, the character named Trout Fishing in America Shorty gets mailed to this author. One novel by this author includes a story about the tin soldier that is read by Teresa Viavarri, a restaurant owner that is nearly raped by the protagonist. That novel chronicles a wide array of characters, including the prostitute Reba, who work on Perdido Street. In another novel by this author, the protagonist constantly deals with his "thirty-five-pound monkey on his back" and desires to play drums with Gene Krupa. This author also about a man who kills Nifty Louie and eventually entangles Sparrow and Molly-O in his problems. This author wrote about Dove Linkhorn in his novel A Walk on the Wild Side. For 10 points, name this Chicago-loving author who wrote about the morphine-addicted Frankie Machine in The Man with the Golden Arm.
Nelson Algren
7

96129-)
At one point in this work, Dick authors the insincere poem "To a Common Prostitute" for Hilda, the wife of a minister with whom he has having an affair. In another section, the sexual libertine Ike Hall and Mac makes a cross-country journey. This work ends with a description of a hitchhiker in a section called "Vag." In the second volume, an account of the deeds and works of Thorstein Veblen is presented in the biographical section "The Bitter Drink." Near the end of this work, labor activist Mary French return from the execution of Sacco and Vanzetti. This series of books incorporates many newsreels and "Camera Eye" sections to convey a stream of consciousness style. Consisting of The 42nd Parallel, 1919 and The Big Money, for 10 points, identify this trilogy of novels by John Dos Passos.
U.S.A. Trilogy [prompt on any of the three individual novels mentioned in the tossup]
7

96148-)
One poem by this author describes the air "over Sicily" that is "still flashing with the landward gulls." In a different poem, he asserts "For all the history of grief," there is "an empty doorway and a maple leaf." That poem asserts a certain entity should "be motionless in time as the moon climbs." He ended one poem with the line "the shadow of the night comes on," and that poem describes Ecbatan, Kermanshah, Beghadad, Palmyra, Lebanon, Crete, and Spain. That poem is addressed to a figure "face down beneath the sun." After making a comparison of a poem to a palpable and mute globed fruit, this author stated a poem "should not mean but be." For 10 points, name this American author of "You, Andrew Marvell" and "Ars Poetica," who also wrote the play J. B.
Archibald Macleish
7

96203-)
The main enemy of this character is a man who wears Moby Dick boxers and owns a deck of cards each with their own sexual position. One of this character's so-called successes is Maxwell Taber, and the African-American Mr. Turkle is one of this character's subordinates. In one scene, this character reads a newspaper article about the danger of oceans to defer characters from going on a fishing trip. This figure runs a voting session on whether or not to watch the World Series, but it prompts a protest viewing of a blank screen by Dale Harding. After sleeping with Candy, Billy Bibbit commits suicide when this character threatens to tell his mother what happened. As a result of that power struggle, she loses her voice and her power when Randle McMurphy grabs her throat. For 10 points, name this monomaniacal nurse from One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.
Nurse Ratched [prompt on "Big Nurse"]
7

96212-)
One poem by this author closes "The self-same power that brought me here brought you" and is addressed to a "rival of the rose" and "purple shrub" that the narrator finds in a forest. A different poem by this author is set "On this green bank, by this soft stream" where a votive stone is put down. He wrote a poem about a creature that meditates on "the fate of the man-child the meaning of man" before asking "Who'll tell me my secret?" This author of "The Sphinx" created a speaker who holds the title objects to the sun and states "they are drops of frozen wine [that] from Eden's vats that run." In addition to writing "Rubies" and "The Rhodora," he set another of his poems "by the rude bridge that arched the flood Â… where once, the embattled farmers stood and fired the shot heard round the world." For 10 points, identify this poet of "The Concord Hymn," who also wrote "Self-Reliance" and "The Oversoul."
Ralph Waldo Emerson
7

96243-)
This story's narrator believes that the constellations are arranged in a "secret and malign order" when he travels by nightfall. Divided into three parts, this story recounts how the protagonist observes that grey-eyed marksmen have the keenest eyes. A flashback in this story describes a scout visiting the protagonist's home, who is told that a certain pier consists of flammable driftwood. Found in Tales of Soldiers and Civilians, in its last section, the main character journeys thirty miles to get back to his plantation to see his wife. Its main character swims down a river to avoid certain death, only to later realize that he has a "stunning blow on his neck." It ends with the revelation that the main character has a broken neck and that the narrative is a dream of the hanged Peyton Farquhar. For 10 points, name this story by Ambrose Bierce.
"An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"
7

96267-)
One character in this novel is deeply disturbed by the news of the self-immolation of many monks. Divided into the three sections "Paradise Remembered," "The Fall," and "Paradise Lost," the end of its first section documents numerous debates about whether or not it is appropriate for a character's daughter to visit New York City. This work's protagonist refuses to have sex with Rita Cohen when blackmailed and is married to a woman who has an affair with Bill Orcutt. This novel's protagonist learns that his daughter has converted to Jainism after he admits his wife, a former Miss New Jersey winner, into a mental hospital. It traces the aftermath of Merry's decision to blow up a post office during the Vietnam War. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Nathan Zuckerman about Swede Levov, a work of Philip Roth.
American Pastoral
7

96278-)
In a study of this character's creator as a mystic, Raymond Weaver highlights the fact that this character is an atheist who is enfeebled by the weakness of those around him. In chapter 37, "Sunset," this character imagines himself wearing the iron crown of Lombardy. To explain his motivations, this character states that a pasteboard mask surrounds his mind. In a dramatic scene, this man holds a thick set of chain-links in his hands and praises the "corpusants" or balls of lighting that have appeared. While doing that dramatic action, he is stepping on Fedallah. In one scene, many characters see a reflection of themselves from a doubloon that this character nailed to a mast. This character shouts "from hell's heart I stab at thee; for hate's sake I spit my last breath at thee" as he fires his harpoon and causes the destruction of the Pequod. For 10 points, name this monomaniacal captain in pursuit of Moby Dick.
Captain Ahab
7

96291-)
The second poem in one collection by this author imagines doom walking with Schoeney's daughter and describes the daughter of Lir and the eyes of Picasso under black fur-hood. That collection by this author begins with a poem that is a free-verse adaptation of the oldest book of The Odyssey. In another poem, this author asserts "there can be but the one Sordello" and tells Robert Browning to "Hang it all." This man won the first Bollingen Prize for poetry, and a different author referred to this American as Il miglior fabbro. A founding member of Vorticism, he described "the apparition of these faces in the crowd" in his short work "In a Station of the Metro." His best known work includes "Rock-Drill" and "Pisan" sections. For 10 points, identify this American poet, the author of The Cantos.
Ezra Pound
7

96327-)
This character observes that "the family is the cradle of the world's misinformation" after listening to factoids about camels while he drives to the Mid-Village Mall. Because he is male, this character is accused of following the path of "homicidal rage" shortly after discussing Sunni Muslims with a carb-loading snake-handler. This character wonders if he or his wife will die first before observing a televised broadcast of her teaching a church class. He visit the most photographed (*) barn in America with visiting pop culture lecturer Murray Siskind and takes lessons from Howard Dunlop in preparation for a conference at which he will need to know German. He later learns that he has been injured by Nyodene D from a member of SIMUVAC. For 10 points, name this husband of the Dylar-addicted Babette, a Hitler Studies professor who gets exposed to the Airborne Toxic Event in White Noise.
Jack A. K. Gladney [accept either]
8

96335-)
In one story by this author, a splinter that broke off of a ladle used to smack a workman creates a flaw in an object that cracks at the story's end. In one of his stories, a character who considers it dangerous to sit near a fireplace in a thunderstorm is given the joking nickname "Jupiter Tonans". The story of Hunilla, a widow who was stranded on Norfolk Island for years, appears alongside an account of giant tortoises exploring the deck of ship in a series of philosophical sketches he wrote about the (*) Galapagos Islands. In one story by him, a servant draws blood while shaving his master, the title Spaniard. In that story by him, Amasa Delano discovers that Babo led a slave-rebellion against the title captain of the San Dominick. For 10 points, name this American author who included "The Bell-Tower", "The Lightning-Rod Man", "The Encantadas", and "Benito Cereno" in his Piazza Tales.
Herman Melville
8

96358-)
This author describes goats "leaping up the cliffs / among the fog-soaked weeds and butter-and-eggs" in a poem that calls The Seven Wonders of the World "tired / and a touch familiar". This author describes objects that are hard to tell apart from the stars or from Venus and Mars in a poem that concludes with the image of "a weak mailed fist / clenched ignorant against the sky". One poem by this author commands the reader to "Accept the fluster / of (*) lost door keys, the hour badly spent." This poet described an owl's nest burning after an illegal fire balloon crashes into it. One poem by this author of "Over 2,000 Illustrations and a Complete Concordance" describes a creature whose "brown skin hung in strips / like ancient wallpaper" and has five hooks in its mouth. She declared: "The art of losing isn't hard to master" in her villanelle "One Art". For 10 points, name this 20th-century American poet of "The Armadillo" and "The Fish".
Elizabeth Bishop
8

96375-)
Two characters in this play bet over whether a certain word ends with the letter "K" or "C". In one speech in this play, one character claims that he "sucked on the same titty" as another character, in order to convince the latter to share his marijuana. One character in this play insists that her nephew be allowed to deliver an important spoken introduction, even though he has a stutter. This play's first act ends with one character showing the scar he got when trying to stop eight or nine men from (*) gang-raping his mother, and its second act ends with one character being stabbed for stepping on the shoes of a man who had his songs rejected. In this play, a man who earned his nickname in a dance contest, Slow Drag, plays together with the well-read Toledo and the hot-headed trumpeter Levee. For 10 points, name this play from August Wilson's Pittsburgh Cycle centering on a recording session of the title singer's band.
Ma Rainey's Black Bottom
8

96407-)
In one scene in this story, a character stares at a writing desk upon which sits a letter in German saying: "Dear God, life is hell." One character in this story gets furious when another character gives the correct answer of "Meet you at the corner" in response to a riddle he had already asked. In this story, a character first encountered at the rehearsal of a children's choir says "I hope you return from the war with all your faculties intact", which leads into a section written in the (*) third person in which the narrator describes himself after his breakdown, and calls himself "Sergeant X". This story ends with the protagonist finding a broken wristwatch in an envelope containing a letter from the title character, whom he met during a break from GI training. For 10 points, name this story about an encounter with a soon-to-be shell-shocked soldier and the title precocious English girl, one of J.D. Salinger's Nine Stories.
"For EsmÃ©Â—With Love and Squalor"
8

96427-)
In one of this author's plays, one character says that he doesn't fear the man another woman claims to be dating, because the woman described the date as a "man" and not as a "guy". That play by this author features a character who claims to be married to Barbara Mandrell in his mind. A character in another of his plays tells a story about two men who simultaneously run out of gas during a car chase, and continue the chase on horseback. In a scene from that play by him, (*) Austin polishes stolen toasters, while Lee smashes a typewriter with one of the golf clubs he was given by the producer Saul, for whom he is writing a screenplay. This author of Fool for Love wrote a play that ends with Tilden digging up the corpse of the child he conceived in an incestuous relationship with his mother Halie. For 10 points, name this American dramatist who wrote True West and Buried Child.
Sam(uel) Shepard (Rogers III)
8

96435-)
The speaker of one poem by this author predicts, "The signs in the street and the signs in the skies / Shall make me a zodiac, guiding and wise" while contemplating a "specious electrical light." In another poem by this author, the speaker addresses an animal that was mourned "in silence and terror and truth" and entreats, "Sleep on, O brave-hearted, O wise man that kindled the flame." (*) Directions like "with a great deliberation and ghostliness" punctuate a poem by this author that describes "cake-walk royalty" and "A minstrel river / Where dreams come true" and claims that "Mumbo-Jumbo will hoo-doo you." Another poem by this discoverer of Langston Hughes describes a "master of us all" who "cannot sleep upon his hillside now" and paces in his "famous high top-hat." For 10 points, name this author of "The Eagle that is Forgotten," "The Congo" and "Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight."
(Nicholas) Vachel Lindsay
8

96495-)
One of this author's characters kills the scam artist Birdsong after the death of his wife, Mannie, and is eventually found hanging from a bell rope in a school. Another of this author's characters chastises his wife for waiting up for him after participating in the mob that kills Will Mayes for allegedly having relations with Minnie Cooper. In one story by this author, Edmonds receives a plantation after Isaac refuses his inheritance; earlier, Boon Hogganbeck had befriended a dog named Lion and they successfully hunt an animal named Old Ben. This author of "Pantaloon in Black" and "Dry September" wrote a story about a woman who spends many years sleeping next to the corpse of her dead lover, Homer Barron. For 10 points, name this author who included "The Bear" in Go Down, Moses and wrote "A Rose for Emily."
William Faulkner
7

96500-)
This character observes, "So many young men get their likes and dislikes from Mencken" while riding down an ugly street to meet an unshaved gambler at the only cafÃ© in the neighborhood that taxi drivers ever drop people off at. A man who raves that Lincoln was in love with Grant accompanies this character on a bus trip to go fishing in the Irati River. This character claims that "all countries just look like the moving pictures" while refusing to go to South America with a friend who repeatedly re-reads (*) The Purple Land to take his mind off Frances. Watching a group of homosexuals dance with the prostitute Georgette enrages this character, who is denounced as a "damned pimp" before being knocked out cold by a former Princeton boxer. For 10 points, name this rival of Mike Campbell, Pedro Romero, and Robert Cohn for the affections of Lady Brett Ashley, an impotent war veteran in The Sun Also Rises.
Jake Barnes [accept either]
8

96524-)
One poem set during this war describes a field "where April rain / Solaced the parched ones stretched in pain" and proclaims "What like a bullet can undeceive!" This war is the setting of a story in which a deaf, mute child plays amidst a fire that he does not realize is his own burning house. Ira Claffey is prevented from bringing vegetables to a group of prisoners by John Winder in a novel set in a prison camp from this war by MacKinlay Kantor. In one story, Peyton Farquhar imagines himself escaping a hangman's noose during this war. The setting of Ambrose Bierce's "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge," characters in a novel set during this war include The Loud Soldier, Wilson, and The Tall Soldier, Jim Conklin. For 10 points, name this war in which Henry Fleming fights in The Red Badge of Courage.
American Civil War [accept "Shiloh" during the first sentence]
7

96541-)
One character in this story repeatedly says "The damned little cuss!" after the title character grabs his finger. A sailor in this story named Man O' War Jack sings a lugubrious song about the adventures of the Arethusa. The setting of this story is forty miles away from a place called Red Dog, and Sandy Tipton suggests that the title character should be sent there. At the end of this story, the North Fork River floods, killing Stumpy and Kentuck. The title character of this story is Cherokee Sal's baby son, who is thought to bring good fortune to a group of gold prospectors. A minor character in this story also appears as the main character of the author's story "The Outcasts of Poker Flat." For 10 points, name this short story by Bret Harte.
"The Luck of Roaring Camp"
7

96574-)
An unseen character in this play is last heard from via a postcard sent from Mazatlan that contains only the words "hello" and "good-bye." At the start of this play, one character addresses the audience by claiming that he is unlike a stage magician because he will present truth in the guise of illusion rather than illusion in the guise of truth. One character in this play refers to another by the nickname "Shakespeare" at the warehouse where they used to work, while it is discovered that another character has not been attending Rubicam's Business College. Two characters in this play execute a clumsy waltz, resulting in a figurine of a unicorn breaking and losing its horn. In this play, Jim, a gentleman-caller, visits the Wingfield home to meet the socially withdrawn Laura. For 10 points, name this Tennessee Williams play named after a zoo of transparent statuettes.
The Glass Menagerie
7

96590-)
In a story by this author, when asked why he is waiting outside the bathroom with a two by four, Otis Ormonde says when the title character comes out he'll club her back in. In another of his stories, Kismine gets lettuce poisoning. In that story, John Unger discovers that Percy Washington's father is using extreme measures to prevent people from finding out about his extremely valuable mountain. In another of his stories, after Duncan and Lorraine show up drunk, Lincoln and Marion Peters refuse to give custody of Honoria to Charles Wales. He wrote a story whose title character is no longer allowed to go to Draycott Deyo's party because Marjorie weaseled her into performing an abomination of fashion. His experiences with his wife Zelda inspired his story "Babylon Revisited." For 10 points, name this author of "The Diamond as Big as the Ritz" and "Bernice Bobs Her Hair."
Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald
7

96614-)
It is said of one character in this poem that he "moves in darkness," and that character is also compared to a "savage armed." The speaker of this poem participates in what he calls "just another kind of out-door game." The speaker of this poem notes that some objects are like loaves and some are "so nearly balls we have to use a spell to make them balance." The speaker of this poem considers voicing his doubts by mentioning the fact that "here there are no cows" and the question of "to whom I was like to give offence." This poem begins by stating, "Something there is that doesn't love" the title structure, which is why the main characters take part in the yearly ritual of repairing it. In this poem, the speaker's neighbor repeats the saying, "Good fences make good neighbors." For 10 points, name this poem by Robert Frost.
"Mending Wall"
7

96621-)
A young man in this novel auctions off a turquoise rock, only to reveal that he had many more in his pocket. One character in this novel sells hammocks for a living, while living far off by himself to resist temptations. The main character often visits Mrs. Lee in the winter in the third part of this novel, while her brother is in Mexico City, after attending college at the state university as a track star. That character's brothers Lou and Oscar want her to drive off Ivar, who later discovers the dead bodies of that character's brother and Marie, shot by Frank Shibata. Carl Linstrum goes off to Alaska as a prospector before coming back in the last part of this novel, set in Hanover, Nebraska. For 10 points, name this novel about Emil and Alexandra Bergson, the first in the Great Plains Trilogy by Willa Cather.
O Pioneers!
7

96640-)
It is asserted that white Americans must come to accept an "institutionalized discrepancy" regarding the condition of blacks and homosexuals in an essay partially titled after this character by Leslie Fiedler. This character feels guilty about lying to the hare-lipped Joanna when he has to pretend that he is from England. This character retrieves a bible with a note reading "Half Past Two" for Sophia so that she can elope with Harney. One of this character's friends is passed off as a sick Arab with blue face paint by two men who steal money from Peter Wilks's nieces and perform The Royal Nonesuch. This character uses pig's blood to fake his death in his escape from his drunken father, though he is upset that he is deceiving the Widow Douglas. For 10 points, name this companion of the slave Jim whose adventures title a Mark Twain novel.
Huckleberry Finn [accept either name]
7

96650-)
In one novel set in this state, Kiwi trains as a pilot only to discover that his sister has run away with the ghost of Louis Thanksgiving, while Ava is raped by a character known as the Bird Man. That novel is named after a theme park here that rivals The World of Darkness and was written by Karen Russell. In another novel set in this state, Penny is bitten by a snake while looking for some pigs, and Jody Baxter bestows the name Flag upon a fawn that he adopts. This setting of Marjorie Rawlings's novel The Yearling is also the setting of a book in which Tea Cake contracts rabies after a devastating hurricane. That novel features this state's real life city of Eatonville and centers on Janie Crawford. For 10 points, name this state, the setting of Swamplandia! and Zora Neale Hurston's novels Their Eyes Were Watching God and Seraph on the Suwanee.
Florida
7

96674-)
Lewis Carroll wrote a parody of this poem in which the title character is a photographer. A wedding in this poem is attended by an extremely boastful man named Iagoo. An oft-parodied section of this poem includes the lines "he had magic mittens made of deer-skin." In the third section of this work a woman falls from the moon and gives birth to Wenonah, who is later impregnated by the West Wind and begets the title character. Eventually the main character invents writing and slays Pearl Feather, before finally being taught Christianity by a "pale-face." This poem, written in trochaic hexameter, is about a character who "grew up on the shores of Gitchee Gumee" and fell in love with Minnehaha. For 10 points, identify this epic poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
The Song of Hiawatha
7

96701-)
In this novel, a male gopher digs the perfect burrow but has to move because he cannot attract a female gopher. One character in this novel commits suicide with an ice pick given to him by a Greek cook. This novel's first sentence calls its main setting such things as "a poem," "a stink," "a tone," and "a dream." In this novel, Dora Flood runs a brothel called the Bear Flag Restaurant. Other locations in this novel include the Western Biological Laboratory and the Palace Flophouse; the latter building is owned by the grocer Lee Chong and rented to "Mack and the boys," a group of bums who try twice to throw a party for Doc. For 10 points, what novel by John Steinbeck is named for the street in Monterey, California where sardines were once processed?
Cannery Row
7

96706-)
One passage in this novel likens the sound of hose-nozzles spraying on summer evenings to thebuzz of locusts. One chapter in this novel ends with a 103-year-old woman peeing herself whilebeing kissed by her great-great-grandson. One chapter in this novel describes a father singing"Google Eyes" to his son, who is scared of the dark. Schoolchildren in this novel sing a songmocking one character for having an African-American-sounding name; a new hat is bought forthat character by his Aunt (*) Hannah. This novel concludes with Uncle Andrew recollecting a butterflyalighting on a coffin during a funeral. It contains unnumbered chapters in italics, written from the point ofview of the child Rufus, and opens with a section titled "Knoxville: Summer 1915". For 10 points, namethis semi-autobiographical novel in which Jay Follett's wife and children deal with the aftermath of his fatalcar accident, by James Agee.
A Death in the Family
8

96735-)
A character with this name is called "moral" by the protagonist of the play in which sheappears, after she confesses to a waking dream about smoke coming out of her closet. Thatcharacter with this name first talks to her future husband by a park bench, while looking for astranger who gave her a dog and then walked off. That character with this name makes herhusband fire orchestra musicians out of paranoia, is constantly sexually pursued by namelessmen, and attempts suicide with a bottle of pills. That fictionalization of the author's ex-wife (*)Marilyn Monroe appears in After the Fall. Another character with this first name sleeps with Skipper aftertaunting him for his homoerotic friendship with her husband, an alcoholic ex-football hero with a brokenleg, named Brick. That character lies to Big Daddy Pollitt about being pregnant. For 10 points, give thisname of the protagonist of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
Maggie [prompt on "Margaret", I guess, though no one refers to either character by their first full names at any point in the plays]
8

96738-)
This author declared "If you can't be free, be a mystery" in one poem. The Mama of one ofthis author's title characters says: "Touch that child / and I'll cut you down / just like the cedar ofLebanon" in one poem. This author described a music box with a ballerina twirling "in the tips ofa carnation" in another poem. This poet described two men "with nothing to boast of / but goodlooks and a mandolin" in "The Event". This author was attacked for glib critical judgments and"multicultural inclusiveness" in (*) "Are These the Poems to Remember?", a critique of her editing ofThe Penguin Anthology of 20th Century American Poetry by Helen Vendler. A Pulitzer Prize-winningvolume including the section "Canary in Bloom" is named for her maternal grandparents. For 10 points,name this author of Thomas and Beulah, the first African-American Poet Laureate of the U.S.
Rita (Frances) Dove
8

96758-)
One character in this novel is tricked into feeding poisoned meat to an old dog with sea-greenpus in its eyes. Another character in this novel is beaten for "playing nasty" after trying to help afriend through her first menstruation. During his great aunt's funeral banquet, one character inthis work cavorts in the grass with Darlene, but is forced by two men with shotguns to have sexwith her while they watch. That character from this novel marries a woman with a deformed (*)foot, named Pauline, and has a daughter who visits the celibate pedophile Soaphead Church. This novel'schapter titles are derived from a "Dick and Jane" story. In this novel, Claudia MacTeer narrates the tale of agirl who was raped by her own father, Cholly. For 10 points, name this work in which Pecola Breedlovedesires the title symbol of white girls' beauty, the first novel by Toni Morrison.
The Bluest Eye
8

96778-)
One section of this work ends with a woman asking an old man whether he has forgotten whatlove feels like, after he gives her a silver horn when she refuses an envelope of money her lover hadleft. One character in this work plays poker to win a nullification of his twin brother's weddingengagement. After canceling divorce proceedings at the last minute, one character in this work buysa sack of candy for his wife and returns the metal detector he conned from a salesman to search forburied treasure. The knife that was used to illegally kill a (*) doe is hidden by Roth Edmonds in onepart of this work. This work includes a story in which Sam Fathers spares a buck called "Grandfather" anda story in which Boon Hogganbeck joins Ike McCaslin on a hunt for Old Ben, the title creature. For 10points, name this set of seven interrelated stories by William Faulkner, which include "Delta Autumn" and"The Bear".
Go Down, Moses [anti-prompt on specific stories like "Was", "The Fire and the Hearth", "Delta Autumn" "The Old People" or "The Bear"]
8

96789-)
In one of this author's short stories, the protagonist is visited by the ghost of a formerparishioner of his, who offers him a cup of her tears mixed with water from a fountain. In anotherstory by this author, a butterfly alights upon the title character's head after a scuffle knocks a vaseoff a table. One of his works ends with a farmer and his children creating a pile of stones after theghost of Mary Goffe was unable to prevent the crazed Richard (*) Digby from dying alone in a cave.In another story by him, a Jew from Nuremberg carries a show-box purported to display the UnpardonableSin that the title former lime-kiln worker set out twenty years before to find. This author of "The Man ofAdamant" wrote a story in which three men fight to dance with Widow Wycherly after drinking an elixirthat makes them younger. For 10 points, name this author of "Ethan Brand" who included "Dr.Heidegger's Experiment" in his Twice-Told Tales.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
8

96799-)
This poem is analyzed in the first chapter of Edward Mendelson's book on the "Later" worksof its poet. In this poem, the future is described as a time when "each in the cell of himself isalmost convinced of his freedom". This poem describes an entity that "survives / In the valley of itsmaking where executives / Would never want to tamper". This poem says that "poetry makesnothing happen" shortly after telling its addressee: "You were silly like us; your gift (*) survived itall". Its fourth and final section is in quatrains of rhymed couplets, and ends: "In the prison of his days /Teach the free man how to praise". This poem repeatedly declares: "What instruments we have agree" thatit was "a dark cold day" when a figure called "the Irish vesselÂ…emptied of its poetry" died. For 10 points,name this W.H. Auden poem about the passing of a certain fellow poet.
"In Memory of W.B. Yeats"
8

96818-)
In this play, one character is confused to learn that McCullers' Ballad of the Sad CafÃ© isbanned by the D.A.R. but recommended by the local college. One character in this play dreams ofworking his way up the ranks of an oil company after another character offers him a job workingon the pipeline. In this play, a young girl getting sick from drinking too much whiskey is blamedon a college dropout by a drunk (*) schoolteacher who was stung that the dropout rejected her efforts toget him to dance with her. The salesman Howard is pressured into marrying the desperate spinsterRosemary Sydney in this play, which ends with Alan Seymour's girlfriend, Madge Owens, running awayfrom home to pursue the train that drifter Hal Carter hopped on to escape the police. For 10 points, namethis play by William Inge about romantic misadventures in a small town in Kansas during the title LaborDay celebration.
Picnic
8

96838-)
At the Met, this character gets up and yells to RadamÃ¨s and Aida that they should stop singingto conserve oxygen. An elderly maid who fears that lightning will strike her kidneys often calls theblack telephone of this character, who gets divorced from his Parisian wife after she is committedfor samaritrophia. While hospitalized, this character claims that everything there is to know aboutlife is in The Brothers Karamazov, but it isn't enough anymore. This son of a senator proposestelling babies that Earth's only rule is, "God damn it, you've got to be kind." (*) Norman Mushariattempts to prove that this volunteer firefighter is insane so his second cousin Fred of Pisquontuit, RhodeIsland will take over his fortune. This title character of a novel also called Pearls Before Swine introducesBilly Pilgrim to the works of Kilgore Trout. For 10 points, name this alcoholic philanthropist created byKurt Vonnegut.
Mr. Eliot Rosewater [accept either; accept Mr. Z]
8

96846-)
In one of this author's novels, the author of Coffee and Doughnuts has a teenage affair with anolder woman who publishes detective novels under the pseudonym Alice Somerset in Canada. Inthat novel by this author, the title character's squash-playing father Ted seduces mothers bywriting scary children's books like "The Door in the Floor." The phrase "keep passing the openwindows" punctuates a novel by this author in which the (*) bear suit-wearing Susie terrifies the exquarterbackChipper Dove in revenge for his rape of Franny, who begins an incestuous relationship with herbrother John. One of this author's protagonists leaves an abortionist doctor's orphanage to work at an appleorchard, while another writes "The Pension Grillparzer," and is the son of "sexual suspect" Jenny Fields.For 10 points, name this author of The Hotel New Hampshire, The Cider House Rules and The WorldAccording to Garp.
John Winslow Irving [accept John Wallace Blunt, Jr.]
8

96858-)
One of this author's title characters is dissuaded from leading a violent rebellion after he hears Milly singing a gospel; in that book, Edward Clayton tries to win a court case to impress Nina Gordon. This author wrote a novel in which James Marvyn is lost at sea, causing Mary Scudder to accept the reverend Samuel Hopkins's proposal. One of this author's characters, Tom Loker, becomes a Quaker after being shot by George Harris. This author of "A Tale of the Great Dismal Swamp," Dred, and The Minister's Wooing created a character who bonds with Eva St. Claire before being beaten and then killed by Simon Legree. She also created Eliza, who crosses the frozen Ohio River with her young child during her bid for freedom. For 10 points, name this author who inspired the anti-slavery movement with her book Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Harriet Beecher Stowe
7

96889-)
Controversy erupted over whether this author plagiarized the life experiences of Muriel Gardner in the section "Julia" of her book Pentimento. In one play by this author, Albertine enters into a relationship with a black chauffeur named Henry. In that play, Julian finances his sisters' trip to Europe with money that he obtained from a real estate scam. In another play by this author, Amelia Tilford arrives too late to stop the suicide of one of the main characters after discovering that her granddaughter Mary has faked some accusations against her teachers. A character created by this author does not want her invalid husband Horace to lend money to her brothers Benjamin and Oscar for the construction of a cotton mill. This playwright of Toys in the Attic and The Children's Hour is best known for a play about Regina Hubbard. For 10 points, name this author of The Little Foxes.
Lillian Hellman
7

96896-)
In one story by this author, Major Talbot accepts money from a man who turns out to be the title character in disguise. Jeff Peters steals an ivory carving from the art collector Scudder and sells it back to him in this author's story "Conscience in Art." This author of "The Duplicity of Hargraves" wrote a story in which Jimmy Valentine saves the life of a child using his safecracking skills, "A Retrieved Reformation." In another of his stories, Bill and Sam kidnap Ebenezer Dorset's son, who turns out to be a royal pain. He also wrote a story in which Della ironically sells her hair to buy a fob chain for Jim, who has sold his watch to buy hair accessories for Della. For 10 points, name this author of "The Ransom of Red Chief" and "The Gift of the Magi," known for his twist endings.
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
7

96915-)
This novel takes the form of a memoir written by the narrator when he was living in a cave, and the narrator alludes to Moby-Dick in its opening line. One character in this novel leaves the corporate world and builds a hospital using the money he had made as the owner of the Castle Sugar Cooperation. Some characters in this novel say "Now I will destroy the whole world" before committing suicide, and belong to spiritually-linked groups of people called karasses. This novel's narrator visits an island ruled by the dictator Papa Monzano; that island, San Lorenzo, is home to the religion of Bokononism. One of its characters is a scientist named Felix Hoenikker who works on the atomic bomb and discovers a deadly substance called ice-nine. For 10 points, name this Kurt Vonnegut novel named after a children's game.
Cat's Cradle
7

96949-)
This author wrote about a man leaving his wife Diana and finding that she has gotten back together with Dirk Richardson in the Hawthorne-inspired short story "Wakefield." The protagonist of a novel by this author is ordered by his mentor to keep tabs on Drew, and ends up falling in love with her. In another of his novels, real-life socialite Evelyn Nesbit helps Tateh support his daughter, Little Girl. He wrote a novel whose title character works for the mobster Dutch Schultz. In his most famous novel, a musician based on Michael Kohlhaas goes on a violent revenge spree after being humiliated by some racist firefighters; that musician is named Coalhouse Walker. For 10 points, name this author of Billy Bathgate and Ragtime.
Edgar Lawrence Doctorow
7

96975-)
In this novel, a character says that he plans to "expunge" his notes and sketches from "the memory of man," leading a character named Webster to ask not to be drawn in his notebook. At one point in this novel, a group of characters use their own urine to produce makeshift gunpowder to fend off their pursuers, and those characters later use a ferry operation as a cover to rob travellers trying to cross the Colorado River. Its protagonist escapes from that operation with Tobin and Toadvine, and is presumably killed in an outhouse at this novel's end by a seven-foot-tall, hairless pedophile who earlier rode with him as part of the Glanton Gang. For 10 points, name this novel featuring the Kid and Judge Holden, a work about scalp hunting on the US-Mexico border by Cormac McCarthy.
Blood Meridian, or The Evening Redness in the West
7

96996-)
The protagonist of this novel gives a lengthy speech in Gloriani's garden exhorting another character to "Live all you can; it's a mistake not to." The protagonist of this novel travels with a former lawyer from Connecticut who courts Miss Barrace. An artist in this novel goes by both the name Little Bilham because of his diminutive size. Other characters in this novel include the beautiful Mamie Pocock and the curmudgeonly Waymarsh. This novel is about a man from Massachusetts who spurns Maria Gostrey to return to America. Its protagonist meets Madame de Vionnet after being sent on a mission to retrieve Chad Newsome from Paris. For 10 points, name this novel about Lambert Strether by Henry James.
The Ambassadors
7

97015-)
One character in this play describes another as a sucker who is getting smaller, saying that in another year "there'd be nothing left but his smell." Another character in this play regrets not professing his love for Lydia before she got married and had three children. In this play, George is told to remember incidents such as when his father blamed Frank for giving him a bad tip about oil stock. The death of a character not seen in this play is not believed by his mother Kate due to the fact that November 25th was his most favorable day, but that belief is shattered when Ann gives her a letter revealing that Larry purposely crashed his plane after discovering that his father had covered up defects in engine cylinders for P-40s. For 10 points, name this play about Joe Keller by Arthur Miller.
All My Sons
7

97019-)
This poet wrote "It is brave to be involved, to be not fearful to be unresolved" in the poem "do not be afraid of no." A poem by this author says that the word dream "makes a giddy sound, not strong like rent, feeding a wife, satisfying a man," though the speaker's reverie is interrupted because "Number Five is out of the bathroom now." She wrote a collection of poems about a woman's coming-of-age, divided into sections called "Notes from the Childhood and Girlhood," "The Womanhood," and "The Anniad." In a poem from the volume The Bean Eaters, she wrote about people who "thin gin" and "jazz June." For 10 points, name this poet of "kitchenette building," Annie Allen and "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Brooks
7

97025-)
In a novel by this author, an explosion at Stanton Mick's moon base supposedly kills Glen Runciter, although subsequent events imply that Runciter is actually alive and everyone else is in a state called "half-life" or "cold-pac." In that novel, Joe Chip discovers the role of the title time-altering substance. In another novel by this author, Agent Fred, also known as Bob Arctor, is addicted to Substance D. One of his novels takes place in the aftermath of World War Terminus, when the Voigt-Kampff test is used to distinguish humans from androids, which are tracked down by the bounty hunter Rick Deckard. For 10 points, name this author of Ubik, A Scanner Darkly, and Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?
Philip Kindred Dick
7

97036-)
One character in this novel invents a bladder complaint called bipalychaetorsonectomy to justify ordering a beer milkshake. Another character in this novel is a bouncer who reads Christian Science texts to prostitutes and, after hearing someone call him a pimp, stabs himself in the heart with an icepick. In this novel, Holman's Department Store hires a flagpole skater who is going for a world record. In this novel, the dog Darling becomes the newest resident of a former fishmeal storage shed known as the Palace Flophouse, which is leased out to the main characters by the grocer Lee Chong. This novel is about a group of boys who try to throw a party for the marine biologist Doc on the title street. For 10 points, name this novel by John Steinbeck.
Cannery Row
7

97044-)
This man wrote a short story in which Mrs. Munson reluctantly buys a mink coat from Vini Rondo, only for it to rip when she puts it in the closet. This author of "A Mink of One's Own" first gained prominence for a story in which the widow Mrs. Miller is terrorized by a young girl with the same first name as her. That story, "Miriam," allowed him to get a contract to write his first novel, which is about an effete boy named Joel Harrison Knox. A mysterious woman created by this author goes to Sing Sing ostensibly to get the weather report for the gangster Sally Tomato. This author of Other Voices, Other Rooms wrote a non-fiction novel based on the murder of the Clutter family, and created Holly Golightly. For 10 points, name this author of In Cold Blood and Breakfast at Tiffany's.
Truman Capote [or Truman Streckfus Persons]
7

97080-)
This novel's epigraph is a Juan RamÃ³n JimÃ©nez quote advising the reader "If they give you ruled paper, write the other way." One of its characters opines that drivers don't know what grass or flowers are, because "they never see them slowly." A number of characters in this novel wear badges displaying salamanders. Its protagonist uses a "green bullet" to communicate with Faber. At the beginning of this novel, that protagonist meets the precocious teenager Clarisse McClellan. Its protagonist horrifies his wife's friends by reading "Dover Beach" aloud, then destroys a mechanical hound and kills Captain Beatty with his flamethrower. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel about the book-burning Fireman Guy Montag, written by Ray Bradbury.
Fahrenheit 451
7

97102-)
While visiting his fiancÃ©e's apartment, the protagonist of this novel feels his tongue turn into a "fat thumb," and compares that fiancÃ©e to the Buddha. While carousing with an old man, two characters in this novel pretend to be Krafft-Ebbing and Havelock Ellis. The protagonist of this novel dreams about trying and failing to sacrifice a lamb to God with two of his college friends, and killing it with a stone after it escapes. In the title character's bedroom, an ivory Christ has been pried off its crucifix and nailed to the wall. Its protagonist goes to an old farmhouse in Connecticut with his fiancÃ©e Betty and sleeps with Fay Doyle, whose crippled husband Peter shoots him. For 10 points, name this novel in which the editor Shrike torments the title advice columnist, a work by Nathanael West.
Miss Lonelyhearts
7

97108-)
One character in this poem tells a story of an orphan girl falsely accused and executed for the theft of a pearl necklace, which is then found in a magpie nest built into the scales of balance of a statue of Justice. One part of this poem describes how "the deep-voiced neighboring ocean speaks" and receives an answer "in accents disconsolate." The two main characters of this poem are the children of the farmer Benedict and the blacksmith Basil, respectively, and are from the town of Grand-PrÃ©. The protagonist of this poem works as a Sister of Mercy in Philadelphia, where she is reunited with her lover, Gabriel Lajeunesse. For 10 points, name this poem beginning "This is the forest primeval," a Henry Wadsworth Longfellow poem about an Acadian woman.
Evangeline, A Tale of Acadie
7

97146-)
This poet described how the title animals "gore no more" and are now "lying low" with the Blackfoot and the Pawnees. One poem by this author of "The Flower-Fed Buffaloes" declares "Death is an Elephant" before a group of lines with parallel beginnings that say "steal the pygmiesÂ… kill the ArabsÂ… kill the white men." That poem by this author includes instructions such as "With a philosophic pause" and has a section called "Their Irrepressible High Spirits" which repeats the tune "boomlay, boomlay, boomlay, BOOM." Another of his poems repeats the refrain "Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?" For 10 points, name this author of "The Congo" and "General William Booth Enters into Heaven."
Vachel Lindsay
7

97154-)
In one story by this author, a woman who gets  rid of unwanted children and her husband who makes oil from animals combine their businesses and start making oil from babies. In another story by this author, a jury declares that a mountain lion caused Hugh Morgan's death after William Harker's testimony of an attack by some unseen being. In addition to "Oil of Dog" and "The Damned Thing," he wrote a story in which a disguised man tells the protagonist that a flood has left driftwood lodged by a wooden pier, allowing sabotage by burning. The protagonist of that story then imagines his escape from execution before his death by hanging. For 10 points, name this man who wrote about Peyton Farquhar in "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge."
Ambrose Gwinnett Bierce
7

97179-)
In a story by this author, Helene and Henry Nash fall in love when they meet as actors in a production of A Streetcar Named Desire, then ask variants of the title question as they are cast as lovers in other famous plays. He used the term "mouse-traps" to describe the twist endings in his stories, such as "Who Am I This Time?" He wrote a story in which Nancy McLuhan is kidnapped by the "Nothinghead" Billy the Poet, who refuses to take "Ethical Birth Control" drugs. He wrote a story that culminates in a levitating dance between a ballerina named the Empress and the title character, a kid with above-average intelligence who is killed by the Handicapper General Diana Glampers. For 10 points, name this author of "Welcome to the Monkey House," "Harrison Bergeron," and Slaughterhouse 5.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
7

97188-)
One character in this novel disputes the narrator's assertion that he is immortal, responding "Of what use or sense is an immortality of piggishness?" That character is later stopped in his murderous tracks by a sudden stroke, even though he had earlier single-handedly beaten up a bunch of his rebellious subordinates and kidnapped men working for his brother Death. The protagonist of this novel casts away on an island with his love interest, the demure poet Maud Brewster. The protagonist, who is nicknamed Hump, is rescued from an accident in San Francisco Bay by the Ghost, a seal-hunting ship ruled by the title character, Captain Larson. For 10 points, name this novel about the nautical adventures of the intellectual Humphrey van Weyden, written by Jack London.
The Sea-Wolf
7

97196-)
One speech by this man relates the story of an atheist who prays for God to save him when he's trapped in an Alaskan blizzard, but does not interpret the fortuitous appearance of some Eskimos as proof of God's existence. That speech begins with a parable about two young fish and an older fish. This author, who delivered a Kenyon commencement address called "This Is Water," wrote about his unpleasant trip on the cruise ship Zenith, which he renames the Nadir, in the essay "A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again." His most famous novel is about a film so entertaining that anyone who watches it is unable to stop, and opens with a meeting about Hal Incandenza's time at the Enfield Tennis Academy. For 10 points, name this author of Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace
7

97246-)
This one-act play's central character says that "you may remark that my vocabulary has taken a turn for the Anglo-Saxon" immediately after barfing. A philistine in this drama claims that the textbook Enzyme Kinetics was more poetic than the lectures of the author of Made Cunningly. This play, which was written while its author was a kindergarten teacher in Atlanta, has a central character who is chastised for reading an edition of a poem that is inauthentically punctuated during a flashback scene with Professor Evelyn Ashford; the professor later reads its protagonist Margaret Wise Brown's The Runaway Bunny. It ends as the protagonist takes off her two gowns as she nakedly walks toward a heavenly light as Dr. Jason Posner realizes that he mistakenly responded to a patient with a DNR order. For 10 points, name this play centering on a cancer-stricken scholar of John Donne named Vivian Bering, which earned its author Margaret Edson a Pulitzer Prize.
W;t [or Wit] [The pronunciation is the same.]
9

97253-)
Charlotte Mandell, who translated this book into English, has suggested that its opening is intended to echo Francois Villon's "Ballad of the Hanged Men." At the end of this novel, the main character uses an iron bar to kill his friend Thomas, who had just saved him from being shot in a zoo. In this book's longest section, the narrator is pursued by Weser and Clemens for killing his own mother shortly before being recruited for a project by Dr. Mandelbrot. The chapters of this novel are titled after musical movements, such as "Courante," during which the narrator is shot in the head at the Battle of Stalingrad, and "Air," in which the narrator has sex with a tree. In "Gigue," its narrator bites Hitler's nose. Much of this novel is devoted to SS officer Maximilian Aue's reminisces about the Final Solution. For 10 points, name this novel written by Jonathan Littell and titled after the Eumenides.
The Kindly Ones or Les Bienveillantes [do not accept or prompt on "The Eumenides" at any point]
9

97255-)
This author's son Ted created a self-important literary hack named Franklin Dixon who makes a living playing online poker in the novel Pocket Kings. In one of this author's novels, a chaplain is arrested by the government for urinating heavy water. In that novel by this author, a lawyer named Noodles Cook works for the law firm of "Atwater, Fitzwater, Dishwater, Brown, Jordan, Quack &amp; Capone," and a character throws a wedding ceremony at the Port Authority Bus Terminal in New York City. His final novel focuses on the writer Eugene Pota, who seeks to recreate the success of his first novel before he dies. Another satire by this man chronicles the history of Aristotle Contemplating the Bust of Homer. In another of his books, a character purchases all of the world's supply of Egyptian cotton and coats it in chocolate so that he can offload it at a mess hall. For 10 points, name this author of Portrait of the Artist as an Old Man, Picture This, and Closing Time, who created the characters Colonel Cathcart and Yossarian.
Joseph Heller
9

97269-)
This author wrote a play in which a poet mistakes a journalist who has come to interview him for the male prostitute he has hired for the day; that poet is later visited by a composer with whom he had formerly collaborated on writing operas. In one play by this author, a man being strapped to a chair by a doctor declares "I am the King" only to be told "no, you are the patient." In another play by him, a teacher is forced to take early retirement when it is revealed that he fondles his students' genitals while giving them rides home on his motorcycle. One play by this man depicts a rehearsal of Caliban's Day, a play-within-a- play about a fictional encounter between Benjamin Britten and W.H. Auden. This author of The Habit of Art and The Madness of George III wrote a play in which Posner and his crush Dakin are both students of the idealistic Mr. Hector and the cynical Mr. Irwin in Sheffield in the 1980s. For 10 points, name this contemporary British playwright of The History Boys.
Alan Bennett
9

97279-)
This play's stage directions contrast a glass-doored bookcase with a smaller one containing books the characters "really have read." After reading a letter from a girl, one character in this play dismisses suicide as cowardly even though he earlier asserted that he would have killed himself beautifully "if there'd been one of Hedda Gabler's pistols around." Another character in this play causes his uncle, a reporter for the Waterbury Standard, to burst out laughing by solemnly claiming that Oscar Wilde was jailed for bigamy. Thomas Carlyle's French Revolution is praised by a character in this play who thinks that he is poisoned by a "peculiar oil" in bluefish. In this play, Yale student Wint Selby takes his friend's brother to smoke and drink at a hotel bar with the prostitute Belle. It ends with Nat wistfully quoting the Rubaiyat to his wife Essie in bed after blessing the relationship between Muriel and the socialistic Swinburne fan Richard. For 10 points, name this play about the Miller family's Fourth of July, the only comedy by Eugene O'Neill.
Ah, Wilderness!
9

97304-)
In the original version of one of this man's screenplays, a lieutenant named Beckwith sells a drug called "Jewels of Sound." This author voices a video game character that is a machine whose brain is divided into an id, ego, and superego, and whose circuitry is powered by the Totem of Entropy. That game was based on one of this author's stories, in which a woman kills a man by ramming an icicle down his throat after a group of characters travel to some ice caves. The aforementioned screenplay by this man features a woman named Edith Keeler, whose pacifist views prevents the U.S. from entering World War II. In one story by this author, writing on a pillar expresses how much a certain machine hates humanity. This author, who created the super-evil computer AM ["am"], wrote the screenplay to the Star Trek episode "The City on the Edge of Forever." For 10 points, name this science fiction writer who authored "I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream."
Harlan [Jay] Ellison
9

97318-)
In the fourth and final chapter of this book, the author imagines wearing the fabled ring of Gyges and sneaking into his neighbors' house to observe them preparing food. This piece of prose compares the act of using a figure of speech to tossing rice at a wedding and includes a multi-page analysis of the phrase "go fuck a duck." This work's section on sex begins with an analysis of a scene in which pirates overtake The Cyprian in John Barth's The Sot-Weed Factor and cites Robert Graves's "The Australian Poem" as a book that shows the imaginative meanness of tough talk. This work begins by listing things described by the title adjective, such as oysters, Russian cats, Confederate money, the moon, cyanosis, and deep holes in the ocean. In this book, the pleasures, connotations, reveries, and spirits associated with a certain shade are discussed by the author of Reading Rilke and A Temple of Texts. For 10 points, name this "philosophical inquiry" into the title color by William Gass.
On Being Blue: A Philosophical Inquiry
9

97353-)
According to critic and biographer Marie Boroff, the author of this poem would never read it out loud because of its cruel subject matter. One character in this poem holds a certain object "half in appeal, but half as if to keep the life from spilling." This poem is set at a place where there are "five mountain ranges one behind the other under the sunset" and during a time when "nothing happened: [the] day was all but done." One of this poem's characters "lay and puffed his lips out with his breath." This poem, which takes its title from the "tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow" speech, ends by describing a group of family members who, "since they were not the one dead, turned to their affairs." It opens by describing a certain object that "snarled and rattled, in the yard" before a doctor comes and attempts to etherize a youth. For 10 points, name this poem about a boy's arm being chopped off by a chainsaw, a work of Robert Frost that takes its title from Macbeth.
"Out, OutÂ—"
9

97357-)
A character in this play is told not to be a "quality time girl" while attending Lisa Friedlander's wedding.The protagonist of this play says "I thought the point was we were all in this together" while speaking to theMiss Crain's School East Coast Alumnae Association. This play sets a key scene at the meeting of theHuron Street Ann Arbor Consciousness Raising Rap Group, where the former lover of the editor of the Liberated Earth News wishes that her daughter will have a better life. At the opening of this play, the maincharacter shows a slide of the Lily Martin Spencer painting We Both Must Fade and discusses its meaning.The title character of this play begins a relationship at a rally for Eugene McCarthy, where she meets ScoopRosenbaum, but remains platonically closer to the gay doctor Peter Patrone. For 10 points, name this playabout two decades in the life of a disillusioned feminist art historian, written by Wendy Wasserstein.
The Heidi Chronicles
9

97367-)
In one short story by this author, Wally Mars covertly switches a cup full of Roland's semen with hisown so as to father the child of his ex-girlfriend Tomasina. Larry is discovered receiving a blowjob fromIannis by one of the three narrators of a novel by this author. In that same novel, Diane MacGregor wins aNobel Prize while working at Pilgrim Lake, a facility where Leonard does research before having a nervousbreakdown. The Hercules Hot Dogs chain is founded after the Detroit Race Riots by Miltiades in one novelby this author of "Baster". Brown co-ed Madeleine is a protagonist of a novel by this author who won aPulitzer for a work where the central character experiences a bulb between the legs when thinking of theObscure Object and changes names from Callie to Cal. For 10 points, name this author of The MarriagePlot and Middlesex.
Jeffrey Eugenides
9

97395-)
 A prize fighter in this novel tells the narrator, "look out for those fanatics, they're the worst cloppersaround" and is named Tony Savo. Despite constantly using military terms, a coach named Mr. Galanter isevasive in regards to why he doesn't enlist in World War II in this novel. One character in this novel isnever directly spoken to by his father and clashes with Professor Appleman. The two protagonists areforbidden from speaking to each other after the narrator's father gives a speech at Madison Square Gardenadvocating for the creation of Israel. Those two main characters meet after one of them intentionally hits abaseball at another, hospitalizing him. Danny ultimately decides to become a Freudian psychologist whileReuven becomes a Rabbi in, for 10 points, what Chaim Potok novel?
The Chosen
9

97413-)
A teenage girl who idolizes Ralph Nader, Leigh-Cheri, appears in a book by this author which is oftenpresented with a parody of a Camel cigarette package on the cover. This author created Plucky Purcell, adrug dealing ex-football star who uncovers a Vatican hit squad, in a book whose focus is the Ziller family'soperation of Captain Kendrick's Memorial Hot Dog Wildlife Preserve. This author of Still Life withWoodpecker and Another Roadside Attraction created the promiscuous Bonanza Kellybean and a mysticnamed The Chink in a novel about the large-thumbed professional hitchhiker Sissy Hankshaw. For 10points, name this novelist of Even Cowgirls Get the Blues.
Tom Robbins
9

97419-)
This poem states that "the firefly's quick, electric stroke / Ticks tediously the time of one more year." A"parable" in this poem compares centurions beating "their tankards on the table-boards" to "the mules thatangels ride." Its speaker says that he and the addressee are "two golden gourds distended on our vines" andlikens himself to "a man of fortune greeting heirs." Questions asked in this poem include "Have all thebarbers lived in vain that not one curl in nature survives?" and "Shall I uncrumple this much-crumpledthing?" This poem contains the line "I wish that I might be a thinking stone" and opens with the speakermocking his wife by calling her "Mother of heaven, regina of the clouds." For 10 points, name this WallaceStevens poem titled in pseudo-French for a relative's eyewear.
 "Le Monocle de Mon Oncle"
9

97421-)
In this story, the protagonist reflects that a truck driving towards a highway looks like a child's toy andimagines it being smashed by a larger truck. A character in this story is annoyed when a group of womeninsist that she is the prettiest and sweetest lady they know. In a recurring scene from this story, Jesus offersa character choices such as being born rich or ugly.This story features a vision of "freaks" and "white trash"on a bridge to heaven, which appears shortly after a woman shouts "Who do you think you are?" whileaggressively hosing down the "pig parlor." That woman in this story had earlier been called an "old warthog" by Mary Grace, a student who throws a book on "Human Development" at her while they sit in adoctor's waiting room. For 10 points, identify this Flannery O'Connor story in which Ruby Turpin has thetitle epiphany.
"Revelation"
9

97448-)
One poem by this author states that he was not taught by the Catholic Church or "the American Legion,which hates everybody" but by "stretching Vistavision", "tragic Technicolor" and the "glorious SilverScreen". This author of "To the Film Industry in Crisis" collaborated with Norman Bluhm on a series of"poem-paintings". This one-time curator of the Museum of Modern Art explained his literary leanings inthe poem "Why I Am Not a Painter". One of his poems is set "three days after Bastille day" and the speakersees the title singer's face on the front page of the New York Post. The speaker "would rather look at youthan all the portraits in the world / except possibly for the Polish Rider" in his poem, "Having a Coke withYou". For 10 points, name this New York School poet of "The Day Lady Died" and Lunch Poems.
Frank O'Hara [or Francis Russell O'Hara]
9

97478-)
An attempt to classify the Founder's Scrolls in this novel results in every book in the library beingassigned to its own category and then shredded. A character in this novel makes the Orwellian observation"passage is flunking" as part of its extended religious allegory. A character in this novel is unable to walkand instead hops on the back of a Frumentian football player named Croaker. The protagonist of this novelis executed for killing a former concentration camp commander who had actually committed suicide. Billyis found within WESCAC by Max Spielman in this novel, which uses New Tammany College to representthe U.S. For 10 points, name this novel which explains the Cold War via academic politics and discusses ayouth raised with farm animals, written by John Barth.
Giles Goat-Boy
9

97494-)
 One work in this collection opens, "Some of us who live in arid parts of the world think about waterwith a reverence others might find excessive", while another describes an unfinished governor's residence;those works are titled "Holy Water" and "Many Mansions". Its author described crippling migraine attacksin the entry, "In Bed". Its "Women" section includes an essay on Georgia O'Keeffe. In the title work in thiscollection, the author argues, "In another sense the Sixties did not truly end for me until Â… I left the house ofFranklin Avenue". That title essay reproduces the psychiatric report on the author's nervous breakdown andopens, "We tell ourselves stories in order to live". For 10 points, name this collection of essays by JoanDidion whose title derives from the record on which "Helter Skelter" appeared.
The White Album
9

97509-)
This novel includes a dog who has to fight other dogs because he can't wave his tail. In this novel, someservants learn to imitate the calls of "birds of the British empire" that their boss practices. After asking"what kind of man would turn his daughter into an outboard motor," a painter in this novel claims that hedepicts "unwavering bands of light" in his art. This novel often mentions the lengths and widths of its malecharacters' penises. The author of this novel appears as a man wearing sunglasses in a cocktail lounge whoescapes a Doberman and frees one of his characters in its epilogue. The main character of this novel attackshis piano-playing, gay son after speed-reading a book which claims that everyone but him are robots. For10 points, name this Kurt Vonnegut novel set in Midland city that features Kilgore Trout and car salesmanDwayne Hoover.
Breakfast of Champions, or Goodbye Blue Monday
9

97517-)
This god had a daughter who was changed into a linden tree following the birth of Chiron. This godmarried a goddess who was once the nurse of Hera during the Titanomachy, and a prohibition on touchingthis deity is why Callisto never sets. This deity announces that "new also is the ruler among gods" and that"it is most advantageous, when truly wise, to be deemed a fool" when he visits Prometheus in PrometheusBound. This was the only Titan who did not participate in the castration of Uranus. This husband of Tethyswas the father of Periboea, Ceto, Callirrhoe, Amphitrite, and many other daughters. For 10 points, namethis Greek god who personified the river encircling the world.
Oceanus
9

97552-)
In the second stanza of one of this man's poems, the speaker asks, "Has not CONSCRIPTION still thepower to wield / Her annual faulchion o'er the human field?" That poem begins by asking, "Black fool,why winter here?" This founder of the American Mercury gushed, "Let our occident stream bear the younghero's name" in "On the Discoveries of Captain Lewis". He described how "tentless troops are marbledwith frost" during a Napoleonic campaign. This author of The Vision of Columbus wrote a poem whilerunning for a seat in the French National Assembly that attacks those who "strive to stamp with disrepute /the luscious food, because it feeds the brute" and notes how the Pennsylvanians insult it by calling it mush.For 10 points, name this early American author of "Advice to a Raven in Russia" and "TheHasty-Pudding".
 Joel Barlow
9

97559-)
This character's telegrams are said to resemble translated French because they use phrases like "to you"and "I ran away." This woman once appeared at her "coming-out ball" in all black and later moves to aneighborhood inhabited by "people who write." This character is seen wearing a red cloak and runningthrough the snow with a dog while on vacation at Skuytercliff. Another character begins anonymouslysending this woman yellow roses in addition to his usual order of lilies-of-the-valley. After the curtains aredrawn on this person's window, a man walks back to his Paris hotel without seeing her again. Despite thefact that she scandalously escaped her marriage with the help of a secretary, her obese grandmother Mrs.Mingott supports her entry into New York society. For 10 points, name this wife of a Count whomNewland Archer falls in love with in Edith Wharton's Age of Innocence.
Countess Ellen Olenska [or Ellen Olenska; or Countess Olenski]
9

97578-)
This character's brother fires a gun in a coffee shop and drowns during the ensuing police chase. Whileworking at a circus, this character took Ferris Wheel rides with a bear named Smolak. In the last chapter,this character runs around an airfield in Newfoundland with a Persian orphan. This character attempts toshoot a stray cat in his attic and later encounters a group of naked people crying over a dead cow. This pigfarmer is stripped, covered in mud, and forced to whip a gigantic statue after carrying it twenty feet. Hedestroys a cistern with a flashlight bomb in an attempt to kill some frogs. A voice crying "I want! I want!"drives this character to undertake a trip on which he meets Romilayu and King Dahfu. For 10 points, namethis man who becomes the title "Rain King" of a Saul Bellow novel.
Eugene Henderson [or Eugene Henderson; or Sungo; or Leo E. Henderson; or the Rain King before mentioned]
9

97589-)
n 2008, one of this man's awful pieces of "shotgun art" was put up for auction on eBay. He playedJames "Hive" Maker in David Blair's Wax or the Discovery of Television Among the Bees. A 1983documentary of this man by Howard Brookner opens with him reading two passages on SNL in 1981. Thisman collaborated on a failed invention called the Dreamachine with Brion Gysin and described his journeyinto the jungles of Colombia in his travelogue The Yage Letters. His best-known book was adapted into a1991 David Cronenberg film; Nelson Muntz complained he "could think of at least two things wrong with"that film's title in "Bart on the Road". He killed his wife Joan Vollmer in a game of William Tell. For 10points, name this author who wrote Queer and described Interzone in Naked Lunch.
William S. Burroughs [or William Seward Burroughs II or William Lee]
9

97591-)
A cautious man in this poem observes, "Last night, the moon had a golden ring, And to-night no moonwe see!" In this poem, the observations "I hear the church-bells ring," "I hear the sound of guns" and "I seea gleaming light" each follow the exclamation "O father!" to begin three successive stanzas. This poem wasinspired by the Great Blizzard of 1839, which destroyed the Favorite off Gloucester. It ends with the prayer" Christ save us all from a death like this, On the reef of Norman's Woe!" For 10 points, name this 1842poem about a woman who is tied to a ship mast and dies in a storm after the title event befalls her father'sship, written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
"The Wreck of the Hesperus"
9

97612-)
This story opens by describing a "wavy ocean" made up of the heads of "curious caddies", "ingeniouschauffeurs" and "the golf professional's deaf sister". Characters in this story include Bessie MacRae, whohas been "the life of the party a little too long-ten years" and Charley Paulson, who's told by theprotagonist she "[wants] to be a society vampire". The title character initially bores her companions bytalking about her car and her hometown of Eau Claire. The title action of this story finally takes place at theSevier Hotel and was prompted by Warren McIntyre's interest in the protagonist and the scheming ofcousin Marjorie. For 10 points, name this story from Flappers and Philosophers by F. Scott Fitzgeraldwhere the title character gets sheared in a new style.
"Bernice Bobs Her Hair"
9

97614-)
A supporting character in this novel embarrasses his family by being caught playing dice with waitersin a cloakroom instead of attending a formal function. The main character of this novel is disappointedwhen only Frank Dowling wants to dance with her. Charley Lohr interrupts dinner in this novel toannounce that Walter has left town after embezzling money. In this novel, the head of the Lamb WholesaleDrug Company causes the title character's father to have a stroke by stealing his formula for a superiorglue. The main character of this novel fails to win a marriage proposal from Arthur Russell and enrolls inFrincke's Business College. For 10 points, name this novel about a poor small-town girl, written by BoothTarkington.
Alice Adams
9

97628-)
A member of this group compares them to "demented children" before lamenting "we're the opposite ofpeople!" When a member of this group was hung for stealing a sheep, a crowd pelted him with peanuts.One of these characters quickly reduces a price from ten to eight to seven guilders. This group loses a betthat "the year of my birth doubled is an odd number," leading them to offer up a skirt-wearing boy aspayment. In the third act, the appearance of this group from barrels on a ship is heralded by theircharacteristic drum and flute music. In another play, they are advised to "speak the speech, I pray you, as Ihave pronounced it to you." For 10 points, name this group of characters from Rosencrantz andGuildenstern are Dead who put on The Murder of Gonzago in the original Hamlet.
the Tragedians [or the Players; or anything indicating a troupe of actors]
9

97630-)
. This man described his "one true brother, / The tall cadaver, who / Either grew or did not grow" in apoem where he "lay at the edge of a well, / And thought how to bury my smile" titled "The UndergroundStream". He describes how the head of fighter pilot Donald Armstrong "rolled over upon Â… and fell / Intothe inadequate grave" in "The Performance". The poet's invalid mother constantly sings "the thousandvariations" of a song from traveling minstrel shows in "Buckdacner's Choice". An excerpt from the Timesappears above a poem of his where a "neat, lipsticked, stockinged" airline stewardess gets swept out of aplane. Ed is forced to perform oral sex on a mountain man in his novel about a disastrous canoe trip. For 10points, name this author of "Falling" and Deliverance.
James (Lafayette) Dickey
9

97661-)
Images evoked in this poem include "dead baby carriages" and "sphincters of dynamos". Its author wasinspired to write it after experiencing an "illumination of eternal Consciousness" when hearing words likethe "Sick Rose" from the poetry of William Blake. The "sermon to my soul" which ends this poem employsa string of noun-adjectives like "riverbank sunset Frisco". Its speaker asks the "unholy battered" addressee,"How many flies buzzed round you innocent of your grime?" This poem's title object sits "dry on top of apile of ancient sawdust", and the speaker asks "when did you look at your skin and decide you were animpotent dirty old locomotive?" It opens with the speaker sitting beside Jack Kerouac. For 10 points,identify this Allen Ginsberg poem about a plant.
"Sunflower Sutra"
9

97674-)
This character draws a distinction between "Being" and "Becoming" people while in a room full of naked women. This character witnesses a game of throwing skulls, shortly before wagering an oil painting of himself and his wife. He confronts Atti in an underground chamber at the behest of a man whose dead father is reincarnated as a lion, the king Dahfu. The woman of Bittahness uses the word grun-to-molani to characterize the voice in this character's head saying I want I want I want. This husband of Lily is guided on his journey by Romilayu. He blows up a cistern full of frogs and lifts an idol of Mummah, causing him to assume the role of Sungo. For 10 points, name this Saul Bellow protagonist who journeys to Africa and becomes the title Rain King.
Eugene Henderson [accept either; accept Sungo before mentioned; accept Henderson the Rain King before mentioned]
7

97697-)
One poem by this author declares "It is the faith within the fear / That holds us to the life we curse" and urges us to revere the Self "which is the Universe". In another poem by this author, the title figure raises a toast to the birds, drinks from a jug, and sings "auld lang syne" on an empty hill at night. One of his poems opens: "For those that never know the light, / The darkness is a sullen thing". The speaker of one work by this poet of "Mr. Flood's Party" declares that "there is not a dawn in eastern skies" and tells the title figure to "go to the western gate". Another work by this author of "The Children of the Night" describes "a gentleman from sole to crown" who one calm summer night puts a bullet through his head. For 10 points, name this American poet of "Luke Havergal" and "Richard Cory". 
Edward Arlington Robinson
7

97739-)
In the final act of this play, characters representing the hours of the night cross a platform at the rear of the stage and recite quotes from philosophers. It ends with a character claiming "the end of this play isn't written yet" as she begins to repeat its first scene. The stage manager Mr. Fitzpatrick interrupts the action of this play in order to admonish the actress Miss Somerset, who repeatedly breaks the fourth wall. The fortune teller Esmeralda appears in its second act, which is set on the boardwalk at Atlantic City and ends with a storm signal forecasting the end of the world. The maid Lily Sabina serves the central family of this play, whose first act features a talking dinosaur and mammoth, as well as the imminent approach of a giant wall of ice. For 10 points, name this play by Thornton Wilder in which the Antrobus family survive by the title expression.
The Skin of Our Teeth
8

97765-)
This poem observes that no "haunt of prophecy" or "old chimera of the grave" has endured "as April's green endures." This poem's third stanza imagines a time when "the sky will be much friendlier...not this indifferent and divided blue" after asking "shall our blood fail? Or shall it come to be the blood of paradise?" Its second-to-last stanza describes "a ring of men" who chant "their boisterous devotion to the sun" in response to a woman who feels "the need of imperishable bliss." This poem's final line provides the title for Helen Vendler's study of its author's long poetry, On Extended Wings. Its opening lines describe how "the holy hush of ancient sacrifice" is dissipated by "Complacencies of the peignoir, and late coffee and oranges in a summer chair." This poem declares that "death is the mother of beauty," and was published in its author's collection Harmonium. For 10 points, name this meditation about Christianity by Wallace Stevens, whose title refers to a time when many believers attend church.
"Sunday Morning"
8

97781-)
The main character of this novella steals cherries from a refrigerator stocked with heaps of fruit before spitefully destroying his girlfriend's sister Julie in a game of ping-pong. Its supporting characters include an unnamed black child who enjoys going into a library to look at Gauguin paintings. The protagonist of this novella spends much time at the affluent suburban neighborhood of Short Hills, and is last seen returning to Newark after his girlfriend's parents discover her diaphragm. This novella traces the progress of the relationship between Brenda Patimkin and Neil Klugman, and takes its title from a record Ron owns commemorating his graduation ceremony at Ohio State. It also titles a collection which includes the stories "Defender of the Faith" and "The Conversion of the Jews." For 10 points, name this novella that titles the first book by Philip Roth.
Goodbye, Columbus
8

97797-)
One of this author's books begins with a story in which Clarence Latouche murders Asa Stryker, who had become rich from killing the title animals. That book by this author was declared obscene for a section about a man who bounces from casual sexual encounters with the working-class Brooklyn girl Anna and the pampered suburbanite Imogen. Another of his books begins with an introduction which notoriously compares governments to sea slugs which prey on smaller organisms. This second husband of Mary McCarthy included "The Man Who Shot Snapping Turtles" and "The Princess with the Golden Hair" in his Memoirs of Hecate County. He wrote an overview of Symbolist literature named for a prose poem by Villiers de l'Isle Adam, as well as a massive overview of the literature of the Civil War. For 10 points, name this American literary critic, the author of Axel's Castle and Patriotic Gore.
Edmund Wilson
8

97815-)
The speaker of this poem feels that he can never rest from a "weird refrain" whose measures cry "Doff this new exuberance / Come and dance the Lover's Dance!" Its speaker admits that he fashions "dark gods" and begs "Lord, forgive me if my need / Sometimes shapes a human creed" after he admits "My conversion came high priced; I belong to Jesus Christ." The speaker of this poem thinks of a certain location as "a book one thumbs / Listlessly, till slumber comes," and is haunted by the "unremittant beat" of "cruel padded feet" which walk through his "body's street." Its speaker wishes to hear the song of "wild barbaric birds / goading massive jungle herds," and feels "three centuries removed / from the scenes his fathers loved." It repeats the refrain "Spicy grove, cinnamon tree, What is Africa to me?" For 10 points, name this poem in which Countee Cullen ponders his ancestry.
"Heritage"
8

97827-)
Nina Baym wrote about this author "as feminist" in her essay "Thwarted Nature." In a letter to his publisher, this author complained about being outsold by a "damned mob of scribbling women." One of this author's characters peers into a mysterious diorama exhibited by an old German Jew before burning himself to death in a lime-kiln. This author wrote a short story in which Polly Gookin is wooed by a scarecrow brought to life by Old Mother Rigby, as well as a story about a man who becomes "the outcast of the universe" after banishing himself from his wife's house for twenty years. Another of his stories is named for a man who journeys to find the Unpardonable Sin and finds it in his heart. Herman Melville wrote a laudatory review of this author "and his mosses." For 10 points, name this American author of "Feathertop," "Wakefield," and "Ethan Brand," who published many of his short stories in his collection Twice-Told Tales.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
8

97852-)
This author profiled NASCAR driver Junior Johnson in his essay "The Last American Hero." In 2000, this author responded to criticism from Norman Mailer, John Irving, and John Updike by writing an essay calling them the "three stooges." This author proclaimed that American novels needed to return to social realism in a 1989 article he wrote for Harper's Magazine, "Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast." His most recent novel concerns Nestor Camacho, a policeman who arrests a Cuban refugee yards from American soil, causing a crisis in Miami. This author wrote a collection named for an essay about Ed Roth and California's custom car culture, as well as the novel Back to Blood. He pioneered "New Journalism" in books such as The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine Flake Streamline Baby. For 10 points, name this American author of A Man in Full and The Bonfire of the Vanities.
Tom Wolfe
8

97853-)
This author wrote about Brother Theobold, who was told by God to move his congregation from San Jose to Murfreesboro, Tennessee to escape an earthquake, in "Notes Toward a Dreampolitik." In another work, this author claimed to be playing the part of Margaret in "Spring and Fall" by reminiscing about Sacramento. This author wrote about visiting the set of The Sons of Elder Katie in "John Wayne: A Love Song," an essay included in a section titled "Life Styles in the Golden Land." The opening line of one of this author's essays inspired the title of her anthology We tell ourselves stories in order to live. She described visiting Haight Street in San Francisco during 1967 in an essay named for a Yeats quote. For 10 points, name this American essayist of The White Album and Slouching Towards Bethlehem.
Joan Didion
8

97864-)
One of this author's poems claims that "the poet" is made uneasy by "statues which so obviously doubt his antimythological myth." This author wrote that "the best and worst of us" were tempted by the "oceanic whisper" "I am the solitude that asks and promises nothing" in a poem about "the one landscape that we, the inconstant ones, are consistently homesick for." He modernized an example of classical ekphrasis in a poem whose title object depicts "an artificial wilderness and a sky like lead" instead of "marble well-governed cities and ships upon untamed seas." This author wrote a poem lamenting "Pour away the ocean and sweep up the wood / For nothing now can ever come to any good," as well as the longer poems "In Praise of Limestone" and "The Shield of Achilles." For 10 points, name this English poet, who wrote "Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone" in his "Funeral Blues."
Wystan Hugh Auden
8

97875-)
This character is told that he isn't in love with anyone by a girl who rubs a dandelion under his chin. This character communicates with a friend through a "green bullet" that fits into his ear.  His wife is obsessed with her "family", played by actors that appear on the parlor wall, and listens to music from "seashell" radios. At the end of the work in which he appears, he is referred to as the "Book of Ecclesiastes" since he is assigned to memorize that text by Granger. This character mourns the death of his young neighbor Clarisse and seeks solace from former professor Faber. This man reads "Dover Beach" to his wife Milly and two of her friends before he is arrested by Beatty and the Mechanical Hound is set on his trail. For 10 points, name this fireman who burns books, the protagonist of Fahrenheit 451.
Guy Montag [accept either]
7

97891-)
This poem describes a time when one shall lie with "the hoary seers of ages past" and "patriarchs of the infant world", when the oak has sent his roots abroad and pierced the addressee's mould. This poem refers to "old Ocean's grey and melancholy waste" and "the hills, rock-ribbed and ancient as the sun" as "solemn decorations" . The addressee of this poem is urged not to go like a quarry-slave to a dungeon, but rather to approach "like one who wraps the drapery of his couch / About him, and lies down to pleasant dreams." This poem describes an "innumerable caravan" which moves to the afterlife, and it is addressed "to him who in the love of Nature holds / Communion with her various forms." For 10 points, identify this poem, a meditation upon death by William Cullen Bryant.
"Thanatopsis"
7

97911-)
One character in this poem implores another "tell me about it if it's something human. Let me into your grief" after apologizing that his words "are nearly always an offense." That character exclaims "I shall laugh the worst laugh I ever laughed" in response to being chastised for discussing "everyday concerns" such as "how long it takes a birch to rot." At the end of this poem, a woman insists that she needs to leave her house, causing a man to declare "I'll follow and bring you back by force. I will!" Earlier, that woman cries "Don't, don't, don't, don't" when her husband begins to talk about seeing a mound. Beginning "He saw her from the bottom of the stairs / before she saw him," this poem was published in its author's collection North of Boston, and follows a man who discovers his wife Amy looking out of a window at a graveyard. For 10 points, name this poem by Robert Frost about a couple's conflict over a dead child.
"Home Burial"
8

97919-)
In one work by this author, a drunken red-haired soldier tries to buy a monkey from an organ grinder before mistakenly making  a date with a twelve-year-old girl who wants to be called "F. Jasmine" and go to Winter Hill, Alaska. In one work by this author, one character uses broken strings from various instruments to try to build a homemade violin, and an African-American doctor dying from tuberculosis delivers a Christmas speech about Karl Marx. She wrote a work in which John Henry West accompanies Frankie Addams as she tries to join her brother on his honeymoon. In a novel by this author of The Member of the Wedding, Dr. Copeland, Jake Blount, and a young tomboy named Mick Kelly are among those who confide in the deaf-mute John Singer. For 10 points, name this American author of The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.
Carson McCullers [or Lulu Carson Smith]
7

97933-)
The protagonist of this novel dates a so-called "P. D." or "Popular Daughter" who breaks up with him after his shirt stud leaves a bruise on her neck when they embrace. One love interest in this novel gallops on horseback out on a cliff, but jumps off the horse just before it goes over the edge. While drunk in a New York City alleyway, the protagonist of this novel sees a hallucination of a friend who died in a car accident, Dick Humbird. Monsignor Darcy introduces the protagonist to his third cousin Clara Page, with whom he falls in love. This novel ends with the protagonist stating "I know myself... but that is all" after having fruitless affairs with Isabelle BorgÃ© and Eleanor Savage. For 10 points, Princeton dropout Amory Blaine is the protagonist of what first novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald?
This Side of Paradise
7

97943-)
The last lines of a story set in this city declares that the title character's tombstone bears "no hopeful verse", "for his dying hour was gloom". In that story set here, a pink ribbon flutters through the air after the protagonist meets a man in the guise of his grandfather who carries a staff shaped like a snake. A character in this city cannot remember adultery when attempting to name the Ten Commandments, shortly before a doll is discovered in his house. In a play set in this city, Reverend Parris questions his niece about why she was dancing in the forest with their Barbadian slave, Tituba. That niece had an affair with John Proctor, who is condemned to death in this city. For 10 points, name this setting of Nathaniel Hawthorne's "Young Goodman Brown" and Arthur Miller's The Crucible. 
Salem, Massachusetts 
7

97967-)
At the end of this novel, its main characters are rescued by troops led by Captain Warley. Several characters in this novel open a chest and discover an ivory chess set, allowing them to use rooks carved like elephants as ransom for hostages. Its protagonist repeatedly refuses the offer to marry Sumach, and is briefly saved from torture by the intervention of Hist. This novel begins with its main character and Hurry Harry encountering Glimmerglass Lake, where they meet the feeble-minded Hetty and her worldly sister Judith aboard the ark of Thomas Hutter. Mark Twain lampooned this novel's violations of the rules "governing literary art" in an essay about its author's "literary offenses." This novel was the last written, but the first chronologically, of its author's Leatherstocking Tales. For 10 points, name this novel by James Fenimore Cooper in which a young Natty Bumppo gets the title nickname by killing for the first time.
The Deerslayer
8

97980-)
In one poem, this author describes his Aunt Sarah practicing the piano and himself sitting on the stone porch of his grandfather's summer-house as a little boy. In one of his poems, a figure  "seems to wince at pleasure / and suffocate for privacy". A car-radio bleats "Love, O careless love" in one poem by this author of  "My Last Afternoon With Uncle Devereaux Winslow". The title creature is described as "Nautilus Island's hermit heiress"  and jabs her head into a sour cream carton in a poem from his collection Life Studies. He described the "yellow dinosaur steamshovels" in a poem about Colonel Shaw's monument, which "stinks like a fishbone" where the Old South Boston Aquarium used to be. For 10 points, name this American Confessional poet who wrote "Skunk Hour" and "For the Union Dead".
Robert ("Cal" Traill Spence) Lowell IV
7

98005-)
This author began one work by stating "No weather will be found in this book," only to provide an appendix containing only descriptions of weather. One of his protagonists successfully defends his Uncle Silas from the charge of killing Jubiter Dunlap. Theodor narrates a novella by him in which the Austrian village of Eseldorf is visited by Satan. This author of The American Claimant wrote a novel in which Miles Hendon protects a boy who has switched places with Tom Canty. One novel by this author of The Mysterious Stranger features a feud between the Grangerfords and the Shepherdsons and sees The Dauphin and The Duke join the slave Jim and the title character as they raft down the Mississippi River. For 10 points, name this author of The Prince and the Pauper and creator of Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn.
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorne Clemens]
7

98018-)
This author created a character who loses his fiancÃ©e to Byron Henry and is unable to convince the State Department of the reality of the Holocaust. The cowardly order to drop a dye marker earns the nickname "Old Yellowstain" for a character he created who rolls steel balls in his hands while being cross-examined. That character created by him obsesses over an imaginary duplicate key he thinks was used to steal a quart of frozen strawberries. Victor "Pug" Henry predicts the Nazi-Soviet nonaggression pact in his novel The Winds of War. In a Broadway play excerpted from one novel by him, Barney Greenwald wins an acquittal for Stephen Maryk during a court-martial. In that novel by him, Willie Keith sails under the command of the tyrannical and incompetent Captain Queeg. For 10 points, name this American author of The Caine Mutiny. 
Herman Wouk
7

98051-)
This author described how "they put me in the closet because they liked me still" in the poem "They shut me up in Prose."  A "plank in reason" breaks and "mourners to and fro kept treading" in this author's poem "I felt a Funeral, in my Brain." Another of her poems describes the day that the speaker "first surmised that Horses' Heads were toward Eternity." This poet described a ride in a carriage which held "but just Ourselves Â– And Immortality." For 10 points, name this author of "Because I could not stop for death", nicknamed "the Belle of Amherst."
Emily Dickinson
6

98079-)
One work by this author begins with the epigraph "To JS/07 M 378 this marble monument is erected by the state." The title character of that poem worked for "Fudge Motors" and "never got fired," and the question "Was he free? Was he happy?" is dismissed as "absurd" by the speaker. In another of this man's poems, an "expensive delicate ship" and an oblivious ploughman appear in a description of Breughel's Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. For 10 points, name this poet of The Unknown Citizen and MusÃ©e des Beaux Arts.
Wystan Hugh Auden
6

98090-)
In one poem, this author wrote that the title figure is "not a person" but is "a feeling, a man seen / As if the eye was an emotion". In another poem, he asks "Shall our blood fail? Or shall it come to be / The blood of paradise? And shall the earth / Seem all of paradise that we shall know?". This author of "Examination of the Hero in a Time of War" wrote that he did not know whether to prefer "the beauty of inflections" or "the beauty of innuendoes" in another poem. One poem by him claims that "Death is the mother of beauty" and describes "Coffee and oranges in a sunny chair," while another says that when the title avian "flew out of sight, / It marked the edge / Of one of many circles."  For 10 points, name this author of "Sunday Morning" and "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird."
Wallace Stevens
7

98101-)
One character in this novel responds to a letter beginning "Dear Shithead" by telling the story of an elephant that got drunk on beer at an Indian wedding and electrocuted itself. While sleeping in a castle, a grandmother in this novel has a recurring dream of Charlemagne's soldiers on horseback gathering at a fountain. Duncan wears an eye-patch after a broken gearshift goes through his eye in a car accident in this novel. Its protagonist's wife has an affair with Michael Milton and is the daughter of wrestling coach Ernie Holm. This novel's protagonist writes a story about a hotel reviewer's family and a Hungarian circus, including a unicycling bear, at an Austrian hostel called "The Pension Grillparzer". The son of feminist nurse Jenny Fields is the title author in, for 10 points, what novel by John Irving?
The World According to Garp
7

98110-)
After preventing a performance of The Rape of the Sabine Women, this play's title characters are told that every exit is an entrance somewhere else. Later in this play, the title characters figure they've missed their opportunity to say no. Non sequiturs, statements, and grunts are disallowed when the title characters play Questions. This play's first act begins with the title characters flipping a coin more than ninety times, which always comes up heads. For 10 points, name this play by Tom Stoppard, which focuses on the two namesake minor characters from Hamlet.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead
6

98125-)
One character created by this man "eyed a khaki suit with loathing," because he "loved the days of old." That "child of scorn" considers himself to have been "born too late," and is the title character of this man's poem "Miniver Cheevy." The "people on the pavement" wish they were another of this poet's title characters, who is "imperially slim" and "glittered when he walked." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote about a man who, "one calm summer night, went home and put a bullet through his head" in his poem "Richard Cory."
Edwin Arlington Robinson
6

98144-)
In response to accusations made by a court, this character replies "I have eaten the King's bread and I am true to the King." This character refuses to believe that another character is his enemy because that enemy "always had a pleasant word for him". After refusing a bribe of two shining guineas, this character is reminded that "Jemmy Legs is down on" him by the Dansker. He earns the ire of the master-at-arms after spilling his soup onto the ship's deck, though he accidentally kills him later in reaction to accusations of mutiny. That crime forces Captain Edward Vere to order the execution of this character. For 10 points, name this enemy of John Claggart and "Handsome Sailor," the title character of a Herman Melville novella about a foretopman.
Billy Budd [accept either; or William Budd]
7

98182-)
In this play, the unseen Shaughnessy and Harker are in a dispute over pigs trespassing into an ice pond. One character in this play blames another's time spent in second-rate hotels for the fact that he has no sense of how to make a real home. There is speculation in this play as to whether one character was walking the halls at night because a foghorn kept her up, or because she was visiting the spare room. In this last act of this play, one character performs a Chopin waltz after bringing her wedding dress down from the attic. That character in this play is self-conscious about her rheumatic hands and rants that Doctor Hardy is a cheap quack. In this play, Edmund is diagnosed with consumption while his mother Mary relapses into morphine addiction. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical play about the collapse of the Tyrone family by Eugene O'Neill. 
Long Day's Journey into Night
7

98201-)
In a novel by this author, a cop stops a man for driving without a license, and then pushes his car off of a cliff. One character created by this author kills a man in a gorilla suit and steals his suit, after breaking into a museum and stealing a mummified dwarf. In one novel by this author, newspaper clippings reveal that a plan to blind himself with lye was abandoned by Sabbath Lily's father. One of her characters tells the story of being courted by a Mr. Edgar Atkins Teagarden, who carved his initials into a watermelon, shortly before she and her family go to Red Sammy's restaurant. In one novel by her, Asa Hawks and Enoch Emery encounter Hazel Motes, who founds "The Church Without Christ". In one story by her, Bailey, the grandmother, and her family are shot by "The Misfit". For 10 points, name this Southern Gothic author of Wise Blood and "A Good Man Is Hard to Find". 
Flannery O'Connor
7

98216-)
Jose Quintero's staging of this play for Circle in the Square in 1956 revived its author's reputation. Its first act ends with laughter at a story about a doctor who died of overwork selling snake oil, which fades away into silent resentment when a sleeping man wakes up and says "don't let me bet a wet blanket--all I want is to see you happy." In its third act, Cora leaves to marry Chuck Morello, and Willie Oban gets his good clothes back from Solly's and resolves to see the District Attorney. Its final act is dominated by a long monologue in which a character describes his guilt over being constantly forgiven for cheating on his wife Evelyn, causing him to kill her. At the end of this play, Don Parritt confesses that he turned his mother in to the police out of hatred, and commits suicide on the urging of Larry Slade. It focuses on a traveling salesman who destroys the spirit of the other characters by convincing them to give up their "pipe dreams." For 10 points, name this late play by Eugene O'Neill in which Hickey brings death instead of peace to Harry Hope's bar.
The Iceman Cometh
8

98236-)
In one of this author's poems, the astrologer Horos warns him not to write about history since Apollo forbade him from "thundering" out words in the mad Forum. An angry ghost returns to this author's bed and tells him "Others can have you . . . I alone / Hold: and I grind your manhood bone on bone" in a poem chastising him about his new mistress Chloris. Another of this author's poems tells a woman he is ashamed that his verses have made her famous. He wrote that he was "untouched by love" before a woman trapped him with her eyes in the opening lines of the Monobiblos, which brought his attention to his lifelong patron Maecenas. This Augustan poet also wrote the line "absence makes the heart grow fonder." For 10 points, name this Latin author of four books of love elegies to Cynthia, the subject of a "homage" by Ezra Pound.
Sextus Propertius
8

98243-)
Robert Irwin attacked this book's dismissal of German scholars such as Ignaz Goldziher in Dangerous Knowledge. This book's second chapter analyzes the role of Silvestre de Sacy's anthologies and Ernst Renan's philological research in shaping its central discipline. Other sections of this book compare travelogues written by Chateaubriand, Lamartine, and Nerval and discuss the representations of "imaginative geography." Its last section blasts the "condescension and bad faith" of Bernard Lewis, and uses his writings as examples of the title concept. This book argues that the title concept arose out of the relationship between knowledge and power which occurred when academics accompanied Napoleon's invasion of Egypt. For 10 points, name this book about the ways the Western world has constructed a false definition of the East, written by Edward Said.
Orientalism
8

98255-)
A character in this collection loses a leg, an arm, four fingers, and an eye, and decides to use those injuries to become a politician nicknamed "Timbertoes." Another of its characters repeatedly heckles a speech given by Increase D. O'Phace. This collection mocks a hypocritical "Pious Editor's Creed," and was later expanded to include its author's poem "The Courtin'" in its second series. Its characters include the pastor of the First Church of Jaalam, as well as a soldier who complains that "ninepence a day" is "kind of low for murder" while serving under Caleb Cushing. This collection is framed as a series of poems sent to Homer Wilbur, and uses letters from Birdofredum Sawin to attack the Mexican War. For 10 points, identify this collection of New England dialect poems named for the farmer Hosea, written by James Russell Lowell.
The Biglow Papers
8

98256-)
A character in this collection loses a leg, an arm, four fingers, and an eye, and decides to use those injuries to become a politician nicknamed "Timbertoes." Another of its characters repeatedly heckles a speech given by Increase D. O'Phace. This collection mocks a hypocritical "Pious Editor's Creed," and was later expanded to include its author's poem "The Courtin'" in its second series. Its characters include the pastor of the First Church of Jaalam, as well as a soldier who complains that "ninepence a day" is "kind of low for murder" while serving under Caleb Cushing. This collection is framed as a series of poems sent to Homer Wilbur, and uses letters from Birdofredum Sawin to attack the Mexican War. For 10 points, identify this collection of New England dialect poems named for the farmer Hosea, written by James Russell Lowell.
The Biglow Papers
8

98273-)
The protagonist of this novel refuses to join in on baiting a priest by saying that he saw him with girls.  Later, the protagonist has his alcohol taken away by Miss Van Campen. The billiards-playing Count Greffi and the surgeon Rinaldi also appear in this novel. The protagonist of this novel deserts the army after the Battle of Caporetto and goes to Switzerland. For 10 points, name this novel where the nurse Catherine Barkley dies in childbirth with Frederic Henry's child, a work of Ernest Hemingway.
A Farewell to Arms
6

98278-)
In one novel set in this city, a rich character donates ping-pong tables to a boys' club. The protagonist of another novel set in this city is fired after a workplace accident and has to take a job at a fertilizer plant. In a different novel set in this city, the protagonist smothers Mary Dalton to death; that novel is Richard Wright's Native Son. One book set in this city opens with the protagonist's Lithuanian-style wedding to Ona. For 10 points, name this American city in whose slaughterhouses Jurgis Rudkus works in Upton Sinclair's The Jungle.
Chicago, Illinois
6

98290-)
In one poem by this author, the speaker hears "the sweep of easy wind and downy flake" after his little horse "gives his harness bells a shake to ask if there is some mistake." In another of this author's poems, the speaker recalls how he "kept the first for another day," yet, knowing how "way leads on to way," he doubted if he "should ever come back." For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening," and whose "The Road Not Taken" begins "Two roads diverged in a yellow wood."
Robert Frost
6

98322-)
In one section of this work, Elroy Berdahl takes the narrator fishing on the Rainy River. Another story from this work sees Mary Anne Bell visit her boyfriend Mark but end up falling in with a group of Special Forces soldiers. That story was related by Rat Kiley and is called "Sweetheart of the Song Tra Bong." The title objects of this story collection include chess sets, diseases, and M-16s. For 10 points, name this memoir about the author's experiences serving in the Vietnam War, written by Tim O'Brien.
The Things They Carried
6

98339-)
One character in this novel seeks help from her teacher Lady Jones and Mr. Bodwin, who is attacked after being mistaken for Schoolteacher. The protagonist's husband is seen with butter slathered on his face when he goes mad. Before crossing the Ohio River, the protagonist has a baby whom she names after Amy Denver. Later, Paul D lives with the central family at 124 Bluestone Road, a house that is haunted by the title ghost. For 10 points, name this Toni Morrison novel about the family of the former slave Sethe.
Beloved
6

98351-)
One poet who wrote about this location wrote about a minister who goes insane over his desires for the titular females; that work is The Women of Point Sur. A short story set in this home state of Robinson Jeffers tells about the son of Cherokee Sal, who drowns in a deluge based off of this state's Great Flood. This state is the setting of Bret Harte's "The Luck of Roaring Camp," and it is the destination of the Joad family in The Grapes of Wrath. For 10 points, name this state whose capital is Sacramento.
California
6

98362-)
This play's central characters talk to each other from ladders meant to represent the second story of their respective houses. The drunken church organist Simon Stimson commits suicide in the third act of this play. In the last act of this play, a character asks the Stage Manager, "Do any human beings ever realize life while they live it?" while revisiting her twelfth birthday. George Gibbs and Emily Webb get married before Emily dies during childbirth in this play. For 10 points, name this play about life and death in Grover's Corners that was written by Thornton Wilder.
Our Town
6

98374-)
In one work by this author, Nancy tells her husband to "roll over" because she's "read how animals do it," after hearing the sound of a jet plane. A character in another of his works feeds poisoned meat to his landlord's dog. In another work by this man, a character swerves to avoid a porcupine and hits a tree. This author of Seascape wrote a play that ends with Peter accidentally stabbing Jerry in Central Park and another where "Get the Guests" is played by George and Martha. For 10 points, name this author of Zoo Story and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee
6

98383-)
This profession is practiced by Jack Keefe, the protagonist of You Know Me Al by Ring Lardner. Don DeLillo recounts a story about people with this profession in "Pafko at the Wall," the prologue to his novel Underworld. Bump Bailey is a character with this profession. W.P. Kinsella often wrote about men who play this game for a living. A poem about this profession claimed "Cooney died at first" and is by Ernest Thayer. For 10 points, name this athletic profession held by Roy Hobbs in The Natural and the title figure of "Casey at the Bat."
baseball players [prompt on athletes]
6

98416-)
This character sees no advantage in praying because it can only bring "spiritual gifts," though he later observes that "you can't pray a lie." While hiding in a tree, this character witnesses the shooting of Buck. At one point, he tears up a letter and declares, "Alright then, I'll go to hell." This son of the town drunk Pap is cared for by Miss Watson and the Widow Douglas before leading an older man on a search for the Ohio River. For 10 points, name this character who travels with the slave Jim on a raft down the Mississippi in a novel by Mark Twain.
Huckleberry Finn
6

98443-)
This poem describes the "similitudes of the past, and those of the future" and the "glories strung like beads on my smallest sights and hearings" as part of a "well-join'd scheme." Later, the speaker states, "The dark threw patches down upon me" and details the "cheating look, the frivolous word, the adulterous wish, not wanting" after saying, "I am he who knew what it was to be (*) evil." The speaker declares, "distance avails not, and place avails not" after asking, "What is the count of the scores or hundreds of years between us?" This poem ends describing how we "descend upon you and all things" and how "you furnish your parts toward the soul." It describes "crowds of men and women attired in the usual costumes" and begins with the exclamation, "Flood-tide below me!" For 10 points, name this Whitman poem about a boat ride in New York.
 "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry"
7

98463-)
One character with this profession tells a story about how in Staten Island he had taught a married couplehow to have sex after finding out that the woman was a virgin; a few days afterwards, the husband showedup and punched him in the nose. That character with this profession is absurdly proclaimed dead by Gus andWes while he is standing right next to them, and he is later declared officially (*) dead when his name is foundon the manifest of a plane crashed by McWatt, even though he is still alive. Another character with this professionmarries Joyce Lanyon after his first wife, Leora Tozer, dies from a contaminated cigarette. That character of thisprofession is invited to the McGurk institute by his teacher, Max Gottlieb. For 10 points, name this profession ofDaneeka from Catch-22 and Sinclair Lewis's Martin Arrowsmith.
doctors [or physicians]
7

98469-)
A red-faced character in this short story thinks of American women as "the hardest, the cruelest, the most predatory" women in the world. One of its characters quotes Shakespeare's line "By my troth I care not; a man can die but once, we owe God a death" after seeing another character transform from a "four-letter man" into "a damn fire eater." This short story begins with its main characters having lunch under a dining tent and pretending that nothing had happened. Its main character wakes up in the middle of the night to find his wife missing, and realizes that she's sleeping with his guide Robert Wilson. The title character shows his cowardice by fleeing from a lion, but suddenly gains courage while facing down a buffalo. For 10 points, name this short story whose title character is shot by his wife Margot during an African safari, written by Ernest Hemingway.
"The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber"
8

98501-)
Susan Howe analyzed this poem's similarity to "Childe Harold to the Dark Tower Came" in the second half of a book named for its author. The speaker of this poem compares the "cordial light" of her "smile" to a "Vesuvian face" which "lets its pleasure through." Its speaker boasts of providing more safety at night than the "Eider-Duck's Deep Pillow," and possesses a "yellow eye" and an "emphatic thumb." Its narrator observes that the "Mountains straight reply" when she speaks for her master, and ends the poem by declaring "I have but the power to kill / without the power to die." The speaker of this poem existed "in corners" until being carried away by an owner to "roam in Sovereign woods" and "hunt the doe." For 10 points, name this poem by Emily Dickinson which compares a woman to a powerful weapon.
"My Life had stood--a Loaded Gun" [or Fr 764; or J 754]
8

98519-)
In this work, a woman accuses a man of being "ashamed" after he had just kissed her, which leads to amonologue in which the man tells of a friend who gave up his last pair of dry socks after several days of rain;that story is about how he was in charge of a company, all of whom died in the war. One character in thisplay asks her neighbor for the horoscope of her son on the day of his (*) disappearance, and in a climactic scene,Anne reads a letter from that son, her ex-fiance, which explains that, even though he was thought to be missing, heactually committed suicide because he was related to his father. This news causes Larry's father to shoot himselfat the end of this work. For 10 points, name this play, in which Joe Keller shipped faulty airplane parts, by ArthurMiller.
All My Sons
7

98539-)
This author wrote about an orphan who joins Tony, Danny and Gilbert in a group that call themselves the "Minna Men"aftfter low-level mobster Frank Minna, who owns a seedy detective agency before he's mysteriously stabbed to death. This authorwrote about a mysterious tiger that sporadically appears and destroys buildings including the apartment of eccentric criticPerkus Tooth, who forms an unlikely friendship with washed-up child actor Chase Insteadman in another novel. The protagonistof his most famous novel is the son of the former lead singer of a band called The Subtle Distinctions, Barrett Rude. Thisauthor of Chronic City wrote about Lionel Essrog, a young detective with Tourette's, in Motherless Brooklyn and wrote aboutthe teenage friends, Dylan Ebdus and Mingus Rude, discovering a magic ring in a novel titled for Superman's headquarters.For 10 points, name this American author who often writes about Brooklyn and penned The Fortress of Solitude.
Jonathan Lethem
8

98556-)
In one work by this author, a man whose face is colored half black and half red says that the title figure will pass by within an hour; when that title character appears, he is tarred-and-feathered in the middle of a large crowd. One of this author's characters says, "The twelfth of May! I should remember it well" before accidentally shooting his son; that story ends with the death of Cyrus, the son of Dorcas and Reuben, in the place where Reuben failed to grant (*) "Roger Malvin's Burial." A scientist concocts a potion for his wife, Georgiana, to drink to remove a hand shaped red spot from her cheek in a story by this author who wrote of Mr. Hooper's title garment in another. For 10 points, name the author of "My Kinsman, Major Molineux," "The Birth-Mark," and "The Minister's Black Veil," who also wrote The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
7

98577-)
One character in this work has a childhood memory of strolling through grass as high as her waist in Kentucky. Another character goes often to Klein's hotel to play billiards and wakes up another character to insist that Raoul has the fever. Victor hurts this novel's protagonist by singing "Ah! Si tu sauvais" at the party she throws before moving into the "pigeon house". This novel's protagonist is enchanted by the piano playing of Mademoiselle Reisz, who lets her read the letters her beloved sends while he is in Mexico; she later takes up with Alcee Arobin after being temporarily abandoned by Robert Lebrun while Leonce is in New York. For 10 points, name this novel set on the Grand Isle, in which Edna Pontellier feels the stirrings of true love for the first time, by Kate Chopin.
The Awakening
7

98591-)
A war poem by this author contrasts truth with error, proclaiming that "Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again." Another poem by him in thirty-five Spenserian stanzas traces the development of civilization, culminating in this author's home country, whose swiftness is compared to the "comet's way through infinite space." In addition to "The Battle-Field" and "The Ages," he wrote a poem describing the title figure as "lone wandering, but not lost," since it is guided by a "Power whose care / Teaches thy way along that pathless coast," concluding that God "will lead my steps aright." Another poem describes an "innumerable caravan" and urges the addressee to approach death as one who "lies down to pleasant dreams." For 10 points, name this American poet of "To a Waterfowl" and "Thanatopsis."
William Cullen Bryant
7

98621-)
One character in this play pretends he needs to make a flight to Kenilworth in order to avoid talking to someone; another character in this play helps that first character by pretending to be Ray Morton, the Vice President of American Express. By saying "You're going to make something up, be sure it will help", one character in this play reveals his complicity in a crime, for which Jerry Graff supposedly paid five grand. One character reveals that Bruce and Harriet Nyborg don't have the money to pay for eight units of Mountain View. In its first act, which is set in a Chinese restaurant, Moss tries to convince Aaronow to help him rob the office of the leads that Mitch and Murray won't give them. For 10 points, Shelley Levene and Ricky Roma are shady real estate agents in what play by David Mamet?
Glengarry Glen Ross
7

98636-)
One character in this novel catches his wife kissing the fingers of the corpse of her dead father. Another character in this novel wears an earring that contains a folded up piece of paper with her name on it and is thought to be a witch because she has no navel. A third character from this book whispers "Your day has come" into the ears of people he kills as part of the Seven Days. The novel with opens with Robert Smith trying to fly by jumping off the roof of Mercy hospital. Hagar repeatedly tries to kill the protagonist when he ceases to love her; she is the daughter of his aunt, Pilate. Guitar tries to kill the protagonist for purportedly stealing a bag of gold that Macon claims belongs to him. For 10 points, Milkman Dead is the protagonist of what novel by Toni Morrison with a Biblically inspired title?
Song of Solomon
7

98657-)
One character in this novel tells of a man who signed up local blacks for the "Grand League of Pincheners"as part of a fake government pension plan. That story is about the crook B. F. Mason and is told by Portia toher father just before she tells her father that he never really got to know her husband, Highboy. An alcoholiccharacter in this novel (*) beats his head and hands against a brick wall after another man leaves a bar, whichprompts that other man to offer lodging for the night. This novel switches perspectives between main characters likethe old black Dr. Copeland, the cafe owning Biff Brannon, and the cafe frequenting Jake Blount. During a visit to anasylum, another character learns that his friend Spiros Antonapoulos is dead, which causes him to shoot himself. For10 points, name this novel centering on the deaf-mute John Singer, written by Carson McCullers.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
7

98696-)
When one character in this work wants to buy a sculpture, its creator grabs his genitals and declines. Quaintance takes the protagonist's apartment after Sapphia Spanella assists the police in vacating it. The barkeeper Joe Bell alerts the narrator as to the whereabouts of the protagonist of this novel, and one engaged character impregnates the protagonist while his fiancÃ©e Mag and Rusty are hospitalized, which prompts Mag and Rusty to get married. The protagonist of this novel often wakes (*) Yunioshi to let her into her apartment, and she was once married to Doc Holiday. The protagonist brings "weather reports" to O'Shaughnessy from the gangster Sally Tomato until she gets arrested and is abandoned by Jose. For 10 points, name this novel about Holly Golightly, by Truman Capote.
Breakfast at Tiffany's
7

98717-)
This character pretends to be a psychologist and brutally twists the arm of an old man sitting on a toilet before being hit from behind by a chair. He dreams about getting drunk with his college buddies Steve Garvey and Jud Hume and brutally sacrificing a young lamb. This character lives in a bare room only decorated by an ivory Christ, which inspires him to have a religious experience that makes him believe he can miraculously heal a malevolent cripple in his novel's final chapter. He attempts to cure his despair by going to a farm in Connecticut with Betty, but is still tormented by the suffering of characters like a girl born without a nose. This character's burgeoning faith is constantly mocked by Willie Shrike, his editor. For 10 points, name this character agonized by letters sent to his advice column in a novel by Nathanael West.
Miss Lonelyhearts [prompt on partial answer]
8

98726-)
At one point late in this novel, a driver named Amos asks the protagonist what various quotes from "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" mean, to which the protagonist responds "Not a bloody thing. It just sounds good." The film version of this novel contains a running joke involving the protagonist's cat, who disappears after he can't get Coury-brand cat food. This novel's protagonist receives a letter from Otatoclan containing a five-thousand-dollar bill, which he continually refers to as a "portrait of Madison". The protagonist is harassed several times by Mendy Menendez, who is arrested in a setup arranged by Randy Starr. In one scene in this novel, the sound of a speedboat distracts the protagonist, who thus misses Roger Wade shooting himself. Its protagonist learns that Eileen Wade's first husband was Paul Marston, who actually turns out to have been the man initially accused of murdering his wife, Harlan Potter's daughter Sylvia. For 10 points, identify this Raymond Chandler novel in which Philip Marlowe has trouble bidding farewell to Terry Lennox.
The Long Goodbye
9

98764-)
In one poem from this collection, the speaker describes being "yanked both ways by my mother and my father" and asks "With him for a sire and her for a dam, what should I be but just what I am?" "Love, though you riddle me with darts" and "I think I should have loved you presently" are two of its subtitular "four sonnets". This collection contains the poem "The Singing Woman from the Wood's Edge" and a poem that begins "We were very tired, we were very merry, we had gone back and forth all night upon the ferry" and is called "Recuerdo". The second poem in this collection is the couplet "Safe upon the solid rock the ugly houses stand / Come and see my shining palace built upon the sand!" Its first entry opens with the lines "My candle burns at both ends / It will not last the night". For 10 points, identify this 1922 collection by Edna St. Vincent Millay.
A Few Figs From Thistles: Poems and (Four) Sonnets
9

98774-)
The protagonist of this work quits his job in a toy store after arranging clockwork monkeys and Barbie dolls into compromising positions. While at his friend Lance's wedding party, this novel's protagonist is intensely bored by Judy Louis and decides to be the nemesis of Yoshi Ogasawara, who won't shut up about epicanthal folds. At one point in this novel, Popo is abandoned in the Sierra Mountains by Ruby Long Legs and Zeppelin, the protagonist's parents. In order to avoid the Vietnam War, this novel's protagonist is married to his girlfriend TaÃ±a de Weese by a Universal Life Church priest in a park. The protagonist breaks up with Nanci Lee after jumping around his room and imitating Sun Wukong, who he later makes the central character of the play that ends this work. For 10 points, identify this work about fifth-generation Chinese-American Wittman Ah Sing, a Maxine Hong Kingston novel subtitled "His Fake Book".
Tripmaster Monkey: His Fake Book
9

98799-)
In this poem, the speaker is disrupted from enjoying "fair fruits, gay blossoms, and enamell'd plains," and he finds that "thankless tribes became our fiercest foes." The speaker of this poem notes that there was "No friend to shed a tear, when passing... the mean tombs," and another character declares, "What kills the healthy cannot cure the sick." This poem tells how "Hell has no mischief like a thirsty throat, Nor one tormentor like your David Sproat." This poem tells of "four hundred wretches," and its third canto begins in a misnamed "slaughter-house." The Hunter, Jersey, Scorpion, and Strombolo are four of the vessels mentioned in this poem. For 10 points, name this poem about "traitors, lost to every sense of shame" who captured Americans during the Revolutionary War, written by Philip Freneau.
The British-Prison Ship
9

98801-)
[missing]
[missing]
9

98812-)
One of this poet's lyrics declares "Futile the winds / To a heart in port," and claims that "Were I with thee," the poem's namesake times "should be / Our luxury." That poem by this poet appears in the same fascicle as one that mocks people who tell their name "to an admiring Bog," declaring, "How dreary Â– to be Â– Somebody!" In addition to "Wild Nights Â– Wild Nights!" and "I'm Nobody! Who Are You?" another poem by this poet describes the centuries that have passed since the speaker "first surmised the horses' heads / Were toward eternity," which occurs during a carriage ride with immortality and the title figure. For 10 points, name this dash-using author of "Because I Could Not Stop for Death," a reclusive female poet from Amherst, Massachusetts.
Emily Dickinson
7

98835-)
A character in one of his plays was beaten for heckling Boss Finley about his daughter's abortion. The protagonist of another of his plays is accused by Miss Fellowes of seducing Charlotte Goodall, thus ending his job with Blake Tours. One of this author's characters, who brings his mistress Princess Kosmonopolis to St. Cloud so he can reunite with Heavenly, is Chance Wayne. The protagonist of another of his plays is fought over by Maxine Faulk and Hannah Jelkes during his "crack-up" in Mexico, Lawrence Shannon. The protagonist of another of his plays reminisces about being carried off by Shep Huntleigh and about Belle Reve. For 10 points, name this author of Sweet Bird of Youth, The Night of the Iguana, and a play featuring Blanche DuBois and Stanley Kowalski, A Streetcar Named Desire.
Tennessee Williams
7

98859-)
This story begins by describing a man who issued an edict that no black woman should appear on thestreets without an apron; that man tried to remit taxes to the main character because of a made-up loangranted to the town, which later causes trouble for the Board of Aldermen who can't get any tax payments.At another point in this story, four men sprinkle lime in the cellar and outhouses of a house after (*) JudgeStevens fails to do anything about a complaint. The protagonist of this story goes to a drug store and refuses toexplain what the use of arsenic is when asked by the druggist, which arouses suspicion of suicide, and at the end ofthis story, a pillow with a head's indentation is found along with a strand of iron-gray hair next to Homer Barron.For 10 points, name this short story about a woman who keeps the decomposing body of her lover in her bedroom,by William Faulkner.
"A Rose for Emily"
7

98875-)
In an essay in on "The Genesis of [this work]," a critic argued that the inability to afford Yale was not actually the inspiration for this poem, and this poem was originally paired with another that begins with a head reposing "in the low vale most peacefully." This poem notes that "from all aroundÂ… comes a still voice" to comfort a man who has "images / Of the stern agony, and shroud, and pall." This poem tells of "patriarchs of the infant world" and (*) "hoary seers of ages past" as well as "the solemn brood of care" who "will chase / His favourite phantom." This poem advises that "when thy summons comes to join / The innumerable caravan," you should "go not, like the quarry-slave at night" but "approach thy grave, / Like one whoÂ… lies down to pleasant dreams." For 10 points, name this meditation on death by William Cullen Bryant.
"Thanatopsis"
7

98881-)
This poet described "long-forgotten bowers" and "many and many a marvellous shrine / Whose wreathed friezes intertwine / The viol, the violet, and the vine;" that poem about a "wilderness of glass" notes, "But lo, a stir is in the air!" This author described "Thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, / Thy Naiad airs" in a poem about the addressee whose beauty is said to be "Like those Nicean barks of yore;" that poem ends by describing the title figure standing (*) "statue-like... The folded scroll within thy hand." This author wrote how "Death has reared himself a throne / In a strange city lying alone." Another poem by this author begins "Once upon a midnight dreary" with "tapping at my chamber door" before describing the title figure on a "pallid bust of Pallas." For 10 points, name this poet of "To Helen," "The City in the Sea," and "The Raven."
Edgar Allan Poe
7

98890-)
One character in this novel recounts how he ended his depression by saving the life of a woman in a "metal hat" on a Provincial Auto-route, and in another scene, Balbalis sets up a mirror on a road to get a bus to swerve off-road. One character is said to be deformed by Molly Notkin, though that character wears a veil because she claims anyone who sees her falls in love with her. Remy Marathe is a member of the A.F.R., and the members of another group include the killer of M. DuPlessis, (*) Don Gately, as well as Joelle Van Dyne, Orin's girlfriend; those characters attend a Drug and Alcohol Recovery House. This novel includes a film that is too pleasurable to watch, and the Year of Glad marks the end of the Subsidized Time chronology of it. For 10 points, name this novel about the Incandenza family whose member James founds the Enfield Tennis Academy, by David Foster Wallace.
Infinite Jest
7

98908-)
This author unfavorably contrasted an ideal grasshopper made out of cardboard and wire to a "simple, natural, and honest" grasshopper in his text Criticism and Fiction, which includes an essay about the "smiling aspects of life." He wrote about his friendship with Mark Twain in My Mark Twain, though authors like Sinclair Lewis decried his genteel influence. This author championed Chesnutt's conjure stories and Dunbar's dialect poetry as the editor of the (*) Atlantic Monthly. This "Dean of American Letters" championed the Realism exemplified by his own novel about the love triangle between Ben Halleck, Marcia Gaylord, and Bartley Hubbard, A Modern Instance. Basil March relates a street-car strike in another work by this man, whose most famous protagonist marries into the Corey family after making bank selling paint. For 10 points, name this author of A Hazard of New Fortunes and The Rise of Silas Lapham.
William Dean Howells
7

98940-)
In one of this author's novels, Mike Slattery and Lloyd Williams conspire to break off a relationship between trumpet player Charley Bongiorno and the protagonist's daughter Ann. That novel focuses on John Chapin, a small-town lawyer who aspires to become President of the United States. Another of this author's main characters either jumps or is pushed over the side of a boat leaving New York City for Massachusetts and is based on Starr Faithfull. He wrote a novel that begins with Gloria Wandrous waking up in the apartment of Weston Liggett. This author of Ten North Frederick fictionalized his hometown Pottsville, Pennsylvania, as Gibbsville in a novel whose protagonist throws a drink at Harry Reilly and gets into a fight with Froggy Ogden. That novel describes the downfall and suicide of Julian English. For 10 points, name this American author of Butterfield 8 and Appointment in Samarra.
John O'Hara
8

98966-)
One character in this short story strains to remember how he broke up a marriage by discovering Nancy Hewitt's supposed "negro blood." In its fourth section, Harkness wins an election after distributing objects stamped with the name of his opponent, Pinkerton. In its third section, Jack Halliday leads a sarcastic rendition of a song from The Mikado following a dispute between Billson and Wilson. Its key scene is precipitated by a letter written by Harold Stephenson about the alleged kindness of Barclay Goodson. At the end of this short story, Mary and Edward Richards die from guilt after learning that they were deliberately spared by Reverend Burgess. Its climax takes place at a town hall meeting, where many characters falsely claim to have told a stranger "you are far from being a bad man: go, and reform" in order to win a sack filled with gold. For 10 points, name this short story by Mark Twain, whose title character exposes the hypocrisy of a supposedly honest town.
"The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg" [do not accept "The Man Who Corrupted Hadleyburg"]
8

98969-)
One character in this play is woken up to see the "Revolution," but that character just starts singing theCarmagnole; at the end of the play, that character again sings the Carmagnole after a different man calls thepolice on himself, which causes Moran and Lieb to arrest him. Another character in this play commits suicideby jumping off a fire escape after being told to do so repeatedly, and some girls decide that if they are whoresthen (*) Rocky must be a pimp, which causes Rocky to slap Pearl and Margie, two of his "tarts." In this play, themother of Don Parritt was once a lover of Larry Slade who keeps himself detached from the drunken antics of theother characters. For 10 points, name this play in which Hickey attacks the pipe dreams of the other people in HarryHope's saloon, which was created by Eugene O'Neill.
The Iceman Cometh
7

99005-)
One of these poems questions whether life is "a handkerchief sandwich." Another of these poems includes a character who concludes that he has no "inner resources" because he is bored. A third of these poems ends with the lines "Hard on the land wears the strong sea / and empty grows every bed." These poems include one which concludes "Nobody is ever missing" and one in which the speaker spits on a grave, part of a series of meditations about the suicide of their poet's father. They contain twelve elegies to Delmore Schwartz and feature a recurring character who speaks in blackface dialect named Mr. Bones. The first seventy-seven of these poems were published in 1964, while the remaining three hundred and eight were published in the collection His Toy, His Dream, His Rest. For 10 points, name these poems focusing on Henry, the alter ego of their author, John Berryman.
The Dream Songs
8

99009-)
This character dismisses the claim that salting meat is "women's work," and at breakfast he claims that holiness is when "one fella" is "kind of harnessed to the whole shebang." He chastises Muley for breaking up the "fambly" and is first seen under a tree after the protagonist has discovered a turtle on the road. At one point, he is arrested while trying to help Floyd Knowles escape from the police. At the beginning of the book, he tells the protagonist "there ain't no sin and there ain't no virtue" and discusses his penchant for taking girls "out in the grass" after prayer meetings. This character is ultimately killed with a pick handle by the police while organizing workers in California, prompting the protagonist to kill a police officer and take up this man's work. For 10 points, name this former preacher who travels with Tom Joad in The Grapes of Wrath.
Jim Casy [accept either part]
9

99042-)
The speaker of one work by this author says, "we had read / Of rare Aladdin's wondrous cave, / And to our own his name we gave," and then "test[s] his lamp's supernatural powers" by "rous[ing] the prisoned brutes within" a barn.  One of this author's character says "a sweeter draught / From a fairer hand was never quaffed" after another character "filled for him her small tin cup" with spring water. One of this author's works invites the reader to (*) "Sit with me by the homestead hearth / And stretch the hands of memory forth," and a work about a judge who later wishes to have married the title character says, "of all sad words of tongue or pen, / The saddest are these: "It might have been!" This author wrote of a family that gathers around a fire during a storm in a work subtitled "A Winter Idyl." For 10 points, name the poet who wrote "Maud Muller" and "Snow-Bound."
John Greenleaf Whittier
7

99053-)
A collection titled for and ending with this work opens "Old Flame," a poem about Jean Stafford, and another work noting that the titular "Water" was "too cold for us" in reference to another poet. Schoolchildren's faces "rise like balloons" in this poem, whose speaker is struck by an advertisement for the "rock of ages," a Mosler safe shown surviving an atomic bomb. It describes the "angry, wrenlike vigilence" of a figure who is "thin as a compass needle" after noting the "puritan, pumpkin-colored girders" that surround the (*) statehouse. The central subject of this poem is said to stick "like a fish-bone / in the city's throat," an image that, like the "giant finned cars," extends marine imagery established by this poem's opening stanza about a snow-covered aquarium. A Saint Gaudens work in Boston inspires the speaker's musing in, for 10 points, what work titled after the subjects of the Robert Gould Shaw civil war memorial, a poem by Robert Lowell?
"For the Union Dead"
7

99074-)
This work advocates telling off solicitors for "the thousand-fold Relief Societies," arguing that "Your goodness must have some edge to it; else it is none." Preceded by the epilogue to Beaumont and Fletcher's Honest Man's Fortune, and opening with the author recalling original "verses written by an eminent painter," it equates envy with ignorance and contrasts boys' freedom with "the man... clapped into jail by his consciousness." This essay uses the examples of Pythagoras, Socrates, Jesus, and Newton to show that "To be great is to be misunderstood." This essay shows readers that "Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist" and contains the dictum that "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds." For 10 points, identify this essay exalting individualism by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
"Self-Reliance"
7

99082-)
At one point in this poem, the speaker describes a telephone that is "off at the root," explaining that "The voices just can't worm through." Earlier, the speaker of this poem describes a picture of the title figure at the blackboard with a "cleft in your chin instead of your foot." The title figure is described as "Marble-heavy, a bag full of God," and the speaker depicts the catching of the tongue with the lines "Ich, ich, ich, ich, / I could hardly speak."  The speaker of this poem declares that "Every woman adores a Fascist" and compares the title figure to a "black shoe" in which she lived for thirty years, "barely daring to breathe or Achoo." For 10 points, name this poem that ends with the telling the title figure, "you bastard, I'm through," written by Sylvia Plath about a family member.
"Daddy"
7

99103-)
Two characters in this novel quarrel about the usefulness of a correspondence course on boxing after reading an ad that asks "CAN YOU PLAY A MAN'S PART?" One of this novel's chapters parallels awkward dinner parties with the McKelveys and the Overbrooks. Its main character receives a private loan from William Washington Eathorne after helping him publicize the Sunday School of Reverend John Jennison Drew. At the end of this novel, its main character declares that he has wasted his life making "a quarter of an inch out of a hundred possible rods" and encourages his son Ted to become a mechanic. Its main character has a recurring dream about a romantic "fairy child," and rebels against his peers by supporting Seneca Doane during a strike. Tanis Judique has an affair with this novel's title character, who becomes dissatisfied with his life after the incarceration of his best friend Paul Riesling. For 10 points, name this 1922 novel about a conforming real estate agent by Sinclair Lewis.  
Babbitt
8

99121-)
One of this author's poems imagines that "the earth shall melt away and be dissolved and the sky will roll up like a scroll" after hearing a voice crying, "Time shall be no more!" Another of this author's poems describes how Sister Caroline is taken away from her "big bed of pain" by the gentle title character. This author warned "your arm's too short to box with God" at the beginning of a poem about a young man seduced by the pleasures of Babylon. He wrote "yet with a steady beat, have not our weary feet come to the place for which our fathers sighed?" in a poem that implores "let our rejoicing rise, high as the listening skies." Aaron Douglas illustrated one of his poetry collections, which includes a poem in which God says "I'm lonely -- I'll make me a world." He included his poems "Go Down Death," "The Prodigal Son," and "The Creation" in a book of "Seven Negro Sermons in Verse." For 10 points, name this African-American poet of God's Trombones and "Lift Every Voice and Sing."
James Weldon Johnson
8

99146-)
The set of one of this author's plays is "surprisingly" rich with American paintings, a fact noted by CBS correspondent Dave Corween.  Another play by this man features extended conversations in frustratingly-untranslated Italian and sees Quillery accost the arms manufacturer Achille Weber. A character in his most famous work is warned off reading "The Hollow Men" and gripes when football star Boze can't get behind her Villon-based (*) Francophilia. Miranda and Dr. Kaarlo Valknonen are caught up in the Winter War in this man's There Shall Be No Night, while in an earlier work Harry Van waits for bombs to fall on his Alpine hotel. Duke Mantee facilitates Gabby's trip to Paris by executing Alan Squier during a standoff at the Black Mesa diner in the best known play by this author of Idiot's Delight. For 10 points, name this American playwright behind Abe Lincoln in Illinois and Petrified Forest, who shares his surname with the first name of the author of Winesburg, Ohio.
Robert Sherwood
7

99148-)
One story in this work centers on a man whose tepid reunion with his wife is smoothed over by his recent friendship with the landlady Mrs. Croft, who takes great pleasure in hearing him say the word "splendid." Another scene in this work sees a small child describe "loving someone you do not know," which inspires Mirandato end her relationship with Dev, who had whispered the titular (*) word to her at the Mapparium."The Third and Final Continent" appears in this collection, whose title story describes a thwarted monkey attack and sees Mrs. Das reveal that Bobby was born out of an affair, hoping that her driver will not judge her. The story "Sexy" appears in this collection, whose title refers to Mr. Kapasi's job translating between patients and doctors at a clinic. For 10 points, identify this short story collection examining the clash of Indian and American cultures, written by Jhumpa Lahiri.
The Interpreter of Maladies
7

99169-)
One poem by this author uses the images of a prickly pear, a barbed wire, a carrot, and a mandrake to conclude that "the weak overcomes its menace, the strong overcomes itself." That poem ends by wondering "What sap went through that little thread to make the cherry red!" Another of this author's poems ends with the exclamation "Again the sun! anew each day, and new and new and new, that comes into and steadies my soul," and compares the title figure to a "night miniature artist engineer" and "Leonardo da Vinci's replica." This author of "Nevertheless" wrote a poem claiming "things are important not because a high-sounding interpretation can be put upon them but because they are useful." She praised the title "armored animal" in "The Pangolin," and described the title genre in a poem which begins "I, too, dislike it." For 10 points, name this American author best known for her poem "Poetry."
Marianne Moore
8

99189-)
One character in this work summons three spirits, one of whom starts to cough blood after the other twospirits hold their hands over his mouth. Those spirits are summoned after the young girl Alice is hypnotizedwith the consent of her father, Gervayse, but that hypnosis ends with Alice getting pneumonia and dying.Another character in this novel framed his cousin for a murder, earning that cousin (*) thirty years in jail; thatcharacter is a judge who dies while sitting upright in a chair. A deed to a large plot of land in Maine is lost in thisnovel as part of a curse that was started generations ago by Matthew Maule when he was hanged by the Colonel. Atthe end of this novel, Holgrave and Phoebe declare their love for each other, and they join Clifford and Hepzibah inleaving the title estate. For 10 points, name this novel about the Pyncheon family by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The House of the Seven Gables
7

99199-)
One of this man's novels ends with the formation of such groups as the Flamingoes, Danites, and the Valkyries. That work by this author describes the building of "wonder-cities" like Ardis and Asgard and features continual footnotes from historian Anthony Meredith, who is writing during the future "Brotherhood of Man." In another of this man's novels, one character's arch-enemy is his brother, who is nicknamed "Death," while another character is the female poet Maud Brewster. One of his novels describes Avis Everhard's attempt at leading a socialist revolt against the title government of monopoly trusts also known as the Oligarchy. In another of his books, the intellectual Humphrey van Weyden is picked up after a shipwreck by the brutal captain of the Ghost, Wolf Larsen. For 10 points, name this author of The Iron Heel and The Sea Wolf.
John "Jack" London [accept John Griffith Chaney]
9

99226-)
One character in this play questions another's political convictions when he doesn't want to drink champagne that hasn't been iced. Another character in this play fakes deafness and hasn't left the building since Bessie died. One character in this play admits to betraying his bomber mother and the anarchist movement for money for a whore to a character who is constantly urged to commit suicide from the fire escape. In this play, one character stirs up animosity from the Boer War between Captain Lewis and General Wetjoen, makes Rocky admit that he's a pimp, and forces Larry Slade to admit that he still cares about Don Parritt and Jimmy Tomorrow. For 10 points, the denizens of Harry Hope's saloon are subjected to Hickey's attempts to jolt them out of their pipe dreams in what play by Eugene O'Neill?
The Iceman Cometh
7

99242-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

99251-)
The protagonist of one work by this author considers writing about Tom Sawyer on Wall Street or a book called The Sexual Biography of My Wife at the end of his career. Another work by this author tells of the post-war experiences of the Coney Island residents Sammy and Lew Rabinowitz, the former of whom had his picture taken with unfused bombs on (*) Pianosa. This author parodied a Joyce title in Portrait of an Artist, as an Old Man and wrote a work that ends with the death of the mentally retarded son of Bob Slocum. The protagonist of another work bandages the wrong wound on a radio gunner as he dies, and this author of Something Happened and Closing Time created the characters Snowden and Colonel Cathcart in his most famous work. For 10 points, name this author who created Milo Minderbinder and Yossarian in Catch-22.
Joseph Heller
7

99260-)
One character in this work explains how the sight of a unicorn can be rationalized as a horse with an arrow in its head as part of the "common experience." Two spies are executed in this play and their positions on stage are taken by the title characters. Alfred is told to get his skirt on for a performance of the Rape of the Sabine Women within this play in which a character contemplates a proposition about six monkeys before wondering whether the world operates under (*) un-, sub- or supernatural forces. After playing music, the Player and the Tragedians emerge from barrels in the final act. The two title characters get ninety-one heads when spinning coins and later deliver a letter demanding their own execution. For 10 points, name this play about two characters from Hamlet by Tom Stoppard.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead
7

99265-)
This author wrote a work in which the Detroit Tigers scout Augie Belfast watches a baseball game to see if Amos is worth signing, but decides against it in a sequence which also sees the main character invest in a mink farm. In another work by this author, Beatrice discusses catching sardines in the ocean and painting oranges. Dan Dibble somehow kills Mr. Falk in an auto accident which leaves Hester free to marry David Beeves in this man's play, (*) The Man Who Had All the Luck, and he wrote a work in which Alfieri suggests informing the government about the illegal immigrants Marco and Rodolpho; Catherine's engagement in that play angers her uncle, Eddie Carbone. This author wrote about Biff who is expected to start a business after a suicidal car crash ends the life of Willy Loman. For 10 points, name this author of A View from the Bridge and Death of a Salesman.
Arthur Asher Miller
7

99285-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

99304-)
This poet described, "All pleasures and all painsÂ… These are the measures destined for her soul," afterasking, "What is divinity if it can come Only in silent shadows and in dreams?" The speaker of that poemlater wonders, when "their warm fields Return no more, where, then, is paradise?" in a poem that repeats theline, "Death is the mother of beauty." This author asked, "Whose spirit is this? we said, because we knew Itwas the spirit that we sought," before telling how "She (*) measured to the hour its solitude. She was the singleartificer of the world." This author called out to "Ramon Fernandez" in a poem beginning, "She sang beyond thegenius of the sea," and wrote "Sunday Morning." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Idea of Order at Key West"who wrote, "Call the roller of big cigars," in "The Emperor of Ice-Cream."
Wallace Stevens
7

99320-)
In one story, this author wrote of a young girl who sleeps on the edge of her bed to make room for herimaginary friend even after a car ran over and killed that imaginary friend, Jimmy Jimmerino. In anotherstory, a sergeant discovers an old package that contains a letter ending with several all caps "HELLO"s aswell as a "lucky talisman," a wristwatch with broken crystal. In another story, a young girl becomes jealousof (*) Sharon Lipschutz who sat with an older man while he played the piano in a hotel lounge; that girl, SybilCarpenter, learns how a certain animal dies when it gets too fat to escape its feeding hole. This author included"Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut" and "For Esme Â– with Love and Squalor" in his Nine Stories. For 10 points, namethis creator of Seymour Glass in his "A Perfect Day for Bananafish."
Jerome David Salinger
7

99327-)
In this novel, a man murders another man with a scythe after his fifteen year-old granddaughter,who had just given birth to a child, is abandoned by that man; when that murderer is found, he slits hisdaughter's throat. This novel ends with the question, "Why do you hate the South?" which prompts thenarrator to think, "I don't hate it! I don't hate it!" The central family's house, known as The (*) Hundred,is finally burned down by the young Clytie, and the main plot is told mostly as part of a conversation betweenShreve and his Harvard roommate who was himself told the story by Rosa Coldfield. Another character in this novelmurders his half-brother Charles Bon when he realizes that Charles is half black. For 10 points, name this novel byWilliam Faulkner about the family of Thomas Sutpen.
Absalom, Absalom!
7

99329-)
One author with this last name wrote about a man who jeopardizes his relationship with Marjorie Grayby working with his assistant, Bus, to fatten a bill to the point where it would certainly be vetoed by thepresident. Another author with this last name wrote a story in which a man takes his son into the woodswhere he will burn a lamb, but when he pulls out a knife his son, David, gets scared and runs away. Anauthor with this last name created Alan McLean in (*) Both Your Houses, while another author with this lastname wrote "Terror" as part of "Godliness," one of the many stories in a collection that describes a man whoseduces Louise Trunnion and Helen White and is named George Willard. For 10 points, name this last name of theauthor of Winesburg, Ohio.
Anderson [or Maxwell Anderson, or Sherwood Anderson]
7

99368-)
With Richard Etulain, this man wrote Conversations on History and Literature in which he compared the themes of Stenbeck's In Dubious Battle and Hemingway's To Have and Have Not to his own novel, Fire and Ice. In one of his novels, the summer home of Sid and Charity Lang is visited by Larry and Sally Morgan after the Langs help Sally overcome polio. This author of Crossing to Safety wrote a novel in which an affair with Astrid is discovered after the reception of a postcard, which strains Ruth's relationship to her husband Joe Allston. This man wrote Recapitulation as well as a novel based on Mary Hallock Foote's letters in which Oliver and Susan got married according to an in-progress biography by Lyman Ward. For 10 points, identify this author of Spectator Bird and Angle of Repose.
Wallace Earle Stegner
9

99378-)
One family in this novel must move to the Evergreen Hotel after encountering a hostile party in front of the Lincoln Memorial. After losing a leg, one character is offered a job by the narrator's Uncle Monty, but that character loses his job as a result of an FBI investigation. The program Just Folks recruits the narrator's brother and sends him to work for Mr. Mawhinney in Kentucky in this novel to the delight of Aunt Evelyn. Walter Winchell makes negative remarks about the Homestead 42 program which gets him kicked off a radio program, and he is later assassinated. Sandy opposes his parents in their support for FDR, and the narrator has a dream in which his stamps start to display swastikas. For 10 points, Rabbi Bengelsdorf assists the Lindbergh presidential campaign before violent, anti-Semitic events occur during World War II in what novel by Philip Roth?
The Plot Against America
9

99390-)
One of this man's stories features a tense confrontation between the title character and the "Jew of Nuremberg" interrupted by a dog frantically chasing after his tail. That story by this man begins with Bartram the lime-burner and his son hearing solemn laughter. This man wrote a story which begins with characters fleeing "Lowell's Fight," with one character later marrying the other's daughter, Dorcas. One story by this man ends with the title character, who had gone in search of the "Unpardonable Sin," self-immolating himself in a kiln, while another of his stories ends with Reuben Borne accidentally killing his son at the same spot where he left the elderly title character to die after a battle with natives. For 10 points, name this author of "Roger Malvin's Burial" and "Ethan Brand," the former of which appears in his collection Mosses from an Old Manse.
Nathaniel Hawthorne [accept Nathaniel Hathorne]
9

99422-)
At a wedding in this novel, a woman tries to skip the long line for the bathroom by handing her pantiesto the protagonist and peeing in bushes. When the main character of this work gets bullied, his coins andbaseball cards fall out of his pockets, and the teacher Mrs. Walker blames him for the mess. The protagonistof this work has a nasally voice that is represented with all caps. At an airport, the protagonist of this noveluses his technique of "the (*) shot" to save a group of Vietnamese orphans in the bathroom by pushing a grenadeinto a window. The main character, who loves the rock star Hester the Molester, finally gets to swing in little league,but he hits a foul ball that kills Tabitha. The narrator, John Wheelwright, describes how the tiny main character ofthis work is the reason he believes in god. For 10 points, name this novel about a religious boy by John Irving.
A Prayer for Owen Meany
7

99443-)
One poem by this author tells of "That motley drama-oh, be sure It shall not be forgot!" and goes onto say, "Out-out are the lights-out all! And, over each quivering form, The curtain, a funeral pall, Comesdown;" that work by this author states, "That the play is the tragedy, "Man." And its hero," is the title figure.This author described "thy hyacinth hair, thy classic face, Thy naiad airs" as "the glory that was (*) Greece,And the grandeur that was Rome" in one poem and also wrote of a time when "I was a child and she was a child"referring to a "maiden" who "lived with no other thought Than to love and be loved by me." This author of "ToHelen" wrote of a narrator lying down "In her sepulcher there by the sea." For 10 points, name this poet of "TheConqueror Worm" who began another work "Once upon a midnight dreary" in "The Raven."
Edgar Allen Poe
7

99455-)
One character in this play sees two of his ancestors with the same name who died in two different plagues;those ancestors start chanting in Hebrew and English at the end of that scene. Another scene shows theworld's oldest living Bolshevik addressing a crowd in this play, whose epilogue occurs at the BethesdaFountain. One character in this work imagines her travel agent, Mr. Lies, which prompts her to ask for atour of (*) Antarctica to see the hole in the ozone layer; that character is the valium-addicted Harper, while anotherdrug featured in this play is the experimental AZT. The sections "Millenium Approaches" and "Perestroika" makeup this play that centers on gay sufferers of AIDS, Prior Walter and Roy Cohn. For 10 points, name this play,subtitled "A Gay Fantasia on National Themes," written by Tony Kushner.
Angels in America
7

99482-)
For Christmas, the narrator of this work gives the heroine an engraved St. Christopher, and in return she gives him a birdcage, asking him never to put anything inside. This novella opens with the discovery of a carved sculpture of the heroine in Africa by a photographer. That character helps save the narrator of this novella from a riding accident, but miscarries as a result. This novella's main female character is described as a "real phony" by her former agent O. J. Berman; while in a taxi near the end of this work, she throws her never-named cat out the window and heads for Brazil after being dumped by Jose. For 10 points, name this novella featuring Mr. Yunoishi and narrated by an aspiring author dubbed "Fred," a work centering around the socialite Holly Golightly by Truman Capote.
Breakfast at Tiffany's
7

99512-)
This character tells of a man who washed his hands in a punchbowl at a banquet, after another character laughs at an anecdote about this character picking up a wheelbarrow. In one chapter in the novel in which this character appears, the narrator reflects on the similarity between the appearance of his tattooed arms and a counterpane. Peleg and Bildad grant this character a ninetieth lay. This character builds fires for a black wooden idol named Yojo. The narrator of the novel that features this character survives a shipwreck by floating in a coffin built for this character, who serves the same job on-board as Daggoo and Tashtego. For 10 points, name this chief harpooner of the Pequod, a cannibal companion of Ishmael in Melville's Moby Dick.
Queequeg
7

99517-)
In one of his novels, Jinny has an affair with the title character's friend, Brad Criley. In another of his novels, Shad Ledue persecutes a journalist who published anti-government propaganda in the Vermont Vigilance named Doremus Jessup. Besides writing Cass Timberlane and a novel about the rise of Buzz Windrip, he wrote about a character who is imprisoned for shooting Zilla, and is best friends with a character who has an affair with Tanis Judique before returning to his wife, Myra. In another novel by this author, who wrote about a fascist USA in It Can't Happen Here and created Paul Riesling and the city of Zenith, Carol Kennicott tries to improve the cultural atmosphere of Gopher Prairie. For 10 points, name this American author of Babbit and Main Street.
Sinclair Lewis
7

99537-)
One character in this play shops at Bella's out of loyalty, even though her prices are higher. That character's son works at the A&amp;P. One major character in this play claims that the devil sold him furniture without credit on interest and sings about a dog he had named Blue. Lyons comes to borrow money from this play's protagonist, who is warned by his best friend Bono about the possible consequences of his affair with Alberta. One character in this play is a former war veteran who thinks he's his namesake archangel Gabriel. The protagonist ruins Cory's chances for a football scholarship and asks his wife, Rose, to take care of Raynell, describing his affair as "trying to steal second". For 10 points, name this play about former baseball player Troy Maxson, the 1950's entry in the Pittsburgh Cycle by August Wilson.
Fences
7

99546-)
This writer concluded that "History to the defeated / May say Alas but cannot help nor pardon" in a wartime poem that he later disavowed, titled "Spain." In another poem, he commemorates a day that a "few thousand" will think of "as one thinks of a day when one did something slightly unusual." That poem by him declares that "poetry makes nothing happen" and ends by urging its dedicatee to "teach the free man how to praise." Another of his poems refers to "what mad Nijinsky wrote / About Diaghilev," that he wanted "not universal love / But to be loved alone." This author of "In Memory of W. B. Yeats" also wrote about "how everything turns away / Quite leisurely from the disaster" in Brueghel's Icarus. For 10 points, name this English poet of "September 1, 1939" and "MusÃ©e des Beaux Arts."
Wystan Hugh Auden
7

99556-)
One anecdote in this novel concerns an old harnessmaker whose son becomes a murderer after learning that his father killed a traveler who dined with them. One character in this novel incites a mob to kill Reverend Green by falsely accusing him of child-molestation. The protagonist joins a rogue army led by Captain White after burning down a hotel with Toadvine. The main characters of this novel take over a ferry run by Lincoln, robbing travelers, before they are massacred by a band of Yuma. A man who wears a necklace made of human ears, Davey Brown, and an ex-priest named Tobin are part of a group of characters led by real-life mercenary John Joel Glanton. For 10 points, "the kid" joins a band of Indian-scalpers in Mexico led by Judge Holden in what novel by Cormac McCarthy?
Blood Meridian
7

99570-)
The final sections of this novel were inspired by its author's obsession with finding Symmes's Hole. The protagonist of this novel terrifies a group of superstitious men by disguising himself as the bloated corpse of Hartman Rogers, and is rescued after the sailboat Ariel is crushed during a storm. Its main character becomes trapped in a box before receiving a note tied to his dog Tiger warning him about a mutiny. During a famine, Richard Parker is murdered and eaten by this novel's main character and his friend Augustus, who are then picked up by the Jane Guy. At the end of this novel, its title character escapes from the murderous natives of Tsalal along with Dirk Peters before sailing past the Antarctic Circle and encountering a massive, shrouded white figure. For 10 points, name this book whose title character leaves Nantucket aboard the Grampus, the only novel by Edgar Allan Poe.
The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket [or The Narrative of A. Gordon Pym of Nantucket]
8

99618-)
 A reporter visits this character's house and meets his daughter Raby in the short story "Evangeline," which was reworked into the novel featuring him. This character's business partner and father-in-law seals himself in his attic and eventually starves after his store is raided by soldiers. A formative experience for this character occurs when he is turned away from the front door of Pettibone's mansion. This character is killed with a scythe after he impregnates the fifteen year old Milly and discards her when she bears a girl. He forces a captive French architect to design his house, which is burned down by his daughter Clytemnestra. While serving in the Confederate Army, he tells his son Henry that his other son Charles Bon is black. For 10 points, name this man who builds a plantation on one hundred acres in Yoknapatawpha County in William Faulkner's Absalom, Absalom!
Thomas Sutpen [or Thomas Sutpen; prompt on Sutpen]
8

99635-)
11.	One story by this author ends with the protagonist telling Marjorie that love isn't fun anymore on a trip to Hortons Bay. In another story by him, Mr. Frazer reflects on different opiums of the people while Sister Cecilia cares for the wounded Cayetano. Harold Krebs tells his mother that he doesn't love anyone, including her, after returning home from the war in another story. Robert Wilson asks Margot why she didn't poison the title character of another of this author's stories, who panicked when confronted by a lion. Another of his tales portrays Harry's last thoughts and memories while dying from gangrene on a mountain in Kenya. For 10 points, "The Gambler, The Nun, and the Radio" and "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber" are by what author of the Nick Adams stories and The Snows of Kilimanjaro?
Ernest Hemingway
7

99647-)
The first poem of one of this author's collections describes the impressions of a newborn baby, declaring that it will be years before the baby thinks, "How pinchy is my room!" while its second section is a mock-epic that precedes a final section entitled "The Womanhood." One poem by this author describes people for whom "'Dream' makes a giddy sound, not strong / Like 'rent,'" and who dream to get into lukewarm water. In addition to "kitchenette building," she wrote of the "beads and receipts and dolls and cloths" that fill the "rented back room" occupied by the title figures of another poem. Another short poem describes a group of seven pool players who "Jazz June" and "Die soon." For 10 points, name this American poet of Annie Allen, A Street in Bronzeville, "The Bean Eaters," and "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Brooks
7

99687-)
Two characters in this play use the code word "Kenilworth" to pretend that they immediately need to leave and catch a plane. Its second scene ends with one character telling another that he's trying to coerce him "because you listened." At the climax of this play, one character explodes "never open your mouth until you learn what the shot is!" after his story is contradicted by Williamson. This play's first three scenes take place in a Chinese restaurant where one character delivers a speech that mesmerizes James Lingk, who later shows up and asks if his check has been cashed. This play contrasts the ineffectiveness of Aaronow and Moss with the success of Ricky Roma, who demands to receive his Cadillac for winning a monthly contest. In its final scene, Shelley Levene admits that he stole the title leads. For 10 points, name this play about an office of scheming real estate agents by David Mamet.
Glengarry Glen Ross
8

99695-)
One character in this play questions another's political convictions when he doesn't want to drink champagne that hasn't been iced. Another character in this play fakes deafness and hasn't left the building since Bessie died. One character in this play admits to betraying his bomber mother and the anarchist movement for money for a whore to a character who is constantly urged to commit suicide from the fire escape. In this play, one character stirs up animosity from the Boer War between Captain Lewis and General Wetjoen, makes Rocky admit that he's a pimp, and forces Larry Slade to admit that he still cares about Don Parritt and Jimmy Tomorrow. For 10 points, the denizens of Harry Hope's saloon are subjected to Hickey's attempts to jolt them out of their pipe dreams in what play by Eugene O'Neill?
The Iceman Cometh
7

99730-)
One character in this work is said to have attended the Duc de Ventre's ball in an inappropriate costume on which his motto, "They Shall Not Pass," appeared. In the introduction to this work, its author notes that he "awoke from The Sickness at the age of forty-five." One character in this work, who is the director of the Reconditioning Center, had been previously assigned to Total Demoralization before becoming advisor to (*) Freeland Republic. One character, who at one point decapitates party-goers, is called the Merchant of Sex, since he hosts orgies, and is the financier of a central organization. This novel's narrator is employed by Islam Incorporated and is assigned to meet Dr. Benway before the novel shifts to Interzone. For 10 points, name this book of loosely connected stories about Lee which was initially banned in the US for depicting sex and drugs, written by William Burroughs.
Naked Lunch [accept The Naked Lunch since it was published this way at one point]
7

99731-)
One character in this work goes to his sister's room and dislikes her Joseph Conrad, Vachel Lindsay, and H.L. Mencken works before starting to read "The Three Black Pennies" by Joseph Hergesheimer for its good story-telling. The main character of this work gets annoyed by his friend Sidney Finkelstein for explaining jokes, and he commends his son Ted for getting secretly married to his neighbor, Eunice. The main character of this novel falls in love with his wife again after she gets appendicitis despite having earlier cheated on her with (*) Tanis Judique. This novel's title character is distraught when he finds out that Zilla was shot by her husband Paul Reisling. This novel centers on the father of Verona and Tinka and husband of Myra. For 10 points, name this novel set in Zenith about the title real estate agent, by Sinclair Lewis.
Babbitt
7

99749-)
One work by this author ends with Billy Keogh promising to explain H. P. Mellinger's graft to Johnny Atwood after Mellinger is seen departing for New York with music playing. This author told of how the prophecy of Madame Zozo, that a man with a crooked nose will bring good fortune, helps locate Katie Mahorner; that prophecy is based on the reading of (*) "Tobin's Palm." This author's story "Cupid's Exile Number Two" is part of a collection set in Coralio which coined the term "banana republic" to describe Honduras. This author of Cabbages and Kings also wrote about Bill and Sam who end up paying $250 to get Ebenezer Dorset to take back his kidnapped son. For 10 points, name the author of the collection The Four Million and the stories "The Ransom of Red Chief" and "The Gift of the Magi."
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
7

99770-)
On the way to a university, the protagonist of this work stops at a hotel that welcomes the "CALIFORNIA CHAPTER OF AMERICAN DEAF-MUTE ASSEMBLY" and also contains a reproduction of a Remedios Varo painting. The protagonist of this work meets a member of the Peter Pinguid Society and later travels to Berkeley to speak with Emory Bortz, a professor who wrote an introduction to a fictional work by (*) Richard Wharfinger. The protagonist's husband Mucho becomes addicted to LSD, and the protagonist spends much of her time investigating the play The Courier's Tragedy. This novel begins with the protagonist becoming the executor of Pierce Inverarity's estate, which contains a collection of stamps showing a muted post horn. For 10 points, identify this novel about Oedipa Maas's investigation into the Tristero mail organization by Thomas Pynchon.
The Crying of Lot 49
7

99779-)
One of this author's poems stars "the super realist / who must perforce perceive taught truth" and notes that he "climbs on rime to a high wire of his own making". That poem by this author also describes how "Beauty stands and waits / with gravity / to start her death-defying leap". In another  poem, this author wrote that "I'm tired of waiting for Godot / I am going where turtles win" and referenced Yeats with lines like "Let us arise and go now / to the Isle of Manisfree". The first entry in the Pocket Poet series published by this author of "Constantly Risking Absurdity" and "Junkman's Obbligato" was his own collection Pictures of the Gone World. He wrote about how certain figures "writhe upon the page / in a veritable rage / of adversity" in the poem "In Goya's greatest scenes we seem to see". For 10 points, identify this poet of A Coney Island of the Mind who published a number of fellow Beat poets while running the City Lights Bookstore.
Lawrence Ferlinghetti
9

99803-)
This man compares himself to Lancelot and William Jennings Bryan after ordering a police unit to draw their guns on a terrified baker whose roommate is found hooking up in the next room. The criminal lawyer T. J. Rigg undermines Hettie Bowler's attempt to blackmail this man, who is seen early on drunkenly brawling in defense of a fellow (*) Terwillinger College graduate. He sets up Floyd Naylor to be discovered affectionately comforting his mistress Lulu Baines and is contrasted with the upstanding Frank Shallard, whom he repeatedly gets fired. At a converted New Jersey pier dubbed the "Waters of Jordan Tabernacle," this prolific secretary-banger tramples doomed admirers while fleeing a fire the claims the life of revivalist preacher Sharon Falconer. Eventually rewarded with a new Wellspring Church in Zenith, for 10 points, name this hypocritical Methodist preacher, the title character of a novel by Sinclair Lewis.
Elmer Gantry 
7

99812-)
One character in this novel gives a friend an ornate birdcage for Christmas on the condition he never puts anything living in it. The protagonist's roommate Margaret Thatcher Fitzhue calls herself "Mag" Wildwood and eventually marries the gay millionaire Rusty Trawler. At the beginning of this book the bartender Joe Bell shows the narrator a magazine photograph of a wooden statue in a remote African village in East Anglia. This work's narrator is (*) renamed after the death of an American soldier, the brother of a character who marries a Texas veterinarian at the age of fourteen while still named Lula Mae Barnes. A scandal surrounding gangster Sally Tomato leads Brazilian diplomat Jose Ybarra-Jaegar to abandon this work's protagonist, who combats a depression she calls the "mean reds" by partaking in the title activity. Holly Golightly is the central figure of, for 10 points, what novella by Truman Capote somewhat loosely adapted into an Audrey Hepburn film?
Breakfast at Tiffany's
7

99825-)
This non-MacLeish author described the large letter G emblazoned on the shirt of a messenger of God who tries to trick a character based on Job to renounce his faith in one work. Another of his plays sees the Deputy Mayor of New York blow off his ear at a disastrous anniversary party that ends with the discovery that Myra might really be in the basement. Jack and Kate separate in (*) Broadway Bound, the last work in a trilogy about Eugene Jerome by this author of Rumors. This playwright wrote about an impulsive woman named Corie who marries the young lawyer Paul Bratter and penned autobiographical plays like Biloxi Blues and Brighton Beach Memoirs. Perhaps best known for juxtaposing a hypochondriac neat freak with his messy sportswriter roomate, for 10 points, name this American playwright of Barefoot in the Park and The Odd Couple. 
Neil Simon [accept God's Favorite before "this author"]
7

99860-)
In this story, a character tells of the hero "Ash-heels," the comically mispronounced Achilles, during a recital of Pope's Iliad. Another character in this work suggests that a woman "go out there and cuss" in order to let out her anger. The protagonist of this work, who is repeatedly described as philosophically calm, exchanges his own horse, "Five Spot," for a weak mule belonging to a female companion. One character in this story (*) starves herself in order to save her rations for "the child;" that "child" is the companion of a character known as "the Innocent" and is named Piney Woods. The journey to Sandy Bar is interrupted by a meeting with Tom Simson as well as a snowstorm which eventually takes the lives of The Duchess and Mother Shipton. For 10 points, name this short story about the gambler John Oakhurst and the title exiles, written by Bret Harte.
"The Outcasts of Poker Flat"
7

99877-)
While this character is on a vacation with his parents, he prays to God that the ceiling of CarlsbadCaverns doesn't collapse. This character drives a Cadillac with bumper stickers from the John BirchSociety, and his son Robert served as a Green Beret in Vietnam. He witnesses the death of a formerteacher from Indianapolis who stole a teapot from the wreckage of a (*) raid. This character is killed bya laser gun fired by Paul Lazzaro. He is kidnapped by aliens that look like toilet plungers, who exhibit him ina zoo with the actress Montana Wildhack, and he witnesses the firebombing of Dresden during World War II.For 10 points, name this former soldier who becomes "unstuck in time", the protagonist of Kurt Vonnegut'sSlaughterhouse-Five.
Billy Pilgrim [accept either name]
7

99920-)
In one scene in this play, a character takes off his coat to reveal purple suspenders which he bought in Nebraska. In another scene, a character tells the story of "Golden Dancer," a beautiful rocking horse from his youth that broke when he rode it. This play ends with a character dying of a "broken belly" and another character balancing two books in his hands before departing. Set in the town of Hillsboro, this play begins with a boy telling a girl that she and her whole family were once "worms" or "blobs of jelly." The first act ends with the line "Hello, Devil, welcome to Hell," spoken by cynical reporter E.K. Hornbeck, who works for the Baltimore Herald. This play's plot involves lawyer Henry Drummond defending teacher Bertram Cates from the fundamentalist Matthew Harrison Brady. For 10 points, name this play by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee, a fictionalization of the Scopes trial.
Inherit the Wind
9

99941-)
The geometry of El Greco's Agony in the Garden may have influenced a poem describing this entity's "unfractioned idiom" and inviting it to "descend" upon the lowliest and "lend a myth to god." That poem on this entity describes a sunbeam moving down a street as the "rip-tide of the sky's acetylene" after the speaker opens by observing the "inviolate curve" of a seagull above it. A work titled for this entity sees Christopher Columbus narrate his return from the New World in "Ave Maria" and the textually-disjointed image "so-/Shine-/GREEN-/Eyes" presented during rum-inspired musings on (*) whaling. "Quaker Hill" and "Atlantis" appear in that namesake work, whose introductory "Proem" sees the speaker standing "by the piers" under the shadow of this edifice. The namesake of a long poem with sections like "Cutty Sark" and "Cape Hatteras," for 10 points, identify this structure that titles a work by Hart Crane and spans the East River.
The Brooklyn Bridge [accept The Bridge, "Proem: To Brooklyn Bridge," etc.]
7

99959-)
One character in this work says that the title character is "not, after all, a Comanche savage" after the title character's aunt describes her as "very common." Another character in this work whispers lines from Byron's "Manfred" before realizing that his actions are dangerous because he may get caught spying. When the title character of this work announces her engagement, she realizes that people, including her brother (*) Randolph, don't believe her. The courier Eugenio tries to dissuade the title character of this work from going on a trip, and a companion on that trip to the Castle of Chillon is reprimanded by his aunt, Mrs. Costello. A visit with Giovanelli to the Colosseum causes the title character of this work to get Roman Fever and die. For 10 points, name this novella in which Winterbourne loves the title character, by Henry James.
Daisy Miller
7

99979-)
A "deep boom, like the rolling of an ocean wave" is heard after this novel's protagonist recognizes a wink as a symbol of solidarity. Near the end, the protagonist goes through "My Best Bread" and other writings by her mother while trapped inside a house with a bird. That character opens a cupboard to find a cigarette butt burned breadboard, which she raises above her head as a weapon. The protagonist of this novel, in which Dr. (*) Courtland fails to keep his patient alive, is named for the state flower of West Virginia and is upset with the idiotic Texan relatives that show up to her father's funeral at Mount Salus. That father dies during an operation to fix his detached retina and has his belongings desecrated by his widow Fay. Laurel McKelva Hand is the title character of, for 10 points, what novel by Eudora Welty?
The Optimist's Daughter
7

99987-)
The speaker of this poem asks himself which pictures he should hang on the chamber walls, and he later experiences a sequence of bizarre visions before musing: "Passing the visions, passing the night." The speaker contrasts the knowledge of death with the thought of death and imagines them as companions walking beside him. This poem shifts into italics to demarcate the song of a (*) hermit thrush, which opens: "Come lovely and soothing death, Undulate round the world." This poem closes as the speaker stands amid "the fragrant pines and the cedars dark and dim" after placing a sprig on a coffin during a funeral procession. For 10 points, identify this poem which describes how "the great star early droop'd in the western sky in the night," an elegy for Abraham Lincoln by Walt Whitman featuring a purple flower.
"When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd"
7

99990-)
A poem addressed to one of these people describes its addressee as "primitive and modern, simple and complex" and notes that "current lunatics" call him a "Professor of Energy." That poem tells one of these people "you must become Â… the deadly Rifleman and the dreadful Hunter before you can clutch us in your iron claws" and concludes "and though you have everything, you are lacking one thing: God!" In another poem, one of them is told "thy ev'ry (*) action let the Goddess guide" and told to "proceed Â… with virtue on thy side." In addition to those poems by RubÃ©n DarÃ­o and Phillis Wheatley, poems about these people include one whose subject is "fallen cold and dead" and one which describes how "the great star early droop'd," both of which were written by Walt Whitman. For 10 points, name this group of people which includes the addressees of "To Roosevelt" and "To His Excellency General Washington."
U.S. Presidents [accept clear knowledge equivalents; accept Theodore Roosevelt, George Washington, or Abraham Lincoln]
7

99992-)
This character paints over images supporting "such laudable ideals as Courage, Might, Justice, Truth, Liberty, Love, Honor, and Patriotism." In his last appearance, this character abandons his friend's quest to find the twelve-year-old sister of a prostitute in order to find some illegal tobacco. This man defends himself at a hearing, saying, "If we pay the government everything we owe it, we'll only Â… discourage other individuals from (*) bombing their own men and planes." That comes after he orders a strafing run on his own camp. This man gives a note bearing the words "A Share" to a man who demands his share of the syndicate run by this man. The first known activity of that syndicate is buying eggs for seven cents and selling them to the kitchen for five cents. For 10 points, name this profiteering mess hall officer in Catch-22 who runs a namesake M &amp; M Enterprise.
Milo Minderbinder [accept either name]
7

100015-)
One author compared his relationship with this city to loving a woman with a broken nose in an essay about it subtitled "City on the Make." One character who lives here gets Catherine Banahan pregnant and dies of pneumonia, having blown his chance at his true love, Lucy Scanlan, and still remembering the time he bested Weary Reilly in a schoolyard fight. A different character becomes involved with the John (*) Reed Club and the Left Front while in this city, but still struggles to embrace the ideals of the communist party. A character born in this city is led to Mexico as a result of his affair with Thea Fenchel, but ends up marrying Stella. Richard Wright moved here from Memphis, and it is the hometown of James T. Farrell's Studs Lonigan and Saul Bellow's Augie March. For 10 points, name this city, deemed "Hog Butcher for the World" in a poem named after it by Carl Sandburg.
Chicago
7

100022-)
This work asserts that prayer for the sake of achieving a private end is "meanness and theft," arguing that a farmer who kneels to plant his seeds will be met with more success than one who kneels in a church. One section of this work imagines its narrator telling an abolitionist to show the kindness that he does to slaves a thousand miles away to his family, remarking that "thy love afar is spite at home." It bemoans the "superstition of (*) Traveling," which its author laments only exists for a want of culture. This work argues against the virtue of consistency, remarking that there is no reason to drag about a "corpse of memory" and claiming that "Whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist." It goes on to state that "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds." For 10 points, name this essay urging "Trust thyself" by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
"Self-Reliance"
7

100040-)
In one work, a woman questions this character about sharing a piano bench with Sharon Lipschutz. In another work, he commands France and Maupassant to "have the rudimentary courtesy to kill yourselves or kindly burn your magnificent pens!"  This character threw a rock at an actress named Charlotte when they were both kids according to the Matron of Honor at his wedding to Muriel Fedder, which he does not attend. He demands he be sent works of Balzac and Cervantes in a letter to his parents from (*) camp entitled "Hapworth 16, 1924." Years after this character's death, his sister tries to explain her interest in The Way of the Pilgrim to Lane Couttell but ends up passing out. This contestant on It's a Wise Child makes a failed suicide attempt in "Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters" before fatally shooting himself in "A Perfect Day for Bannafish." The older broth of Franny and Zooey, for 10 points, name this J.D. Salinger character, the eldest of the Glass children.
Seymour Glass [prompt Glass]
7

100074-)
In a 2004 novel, this figure retires to Rye in despair after a real-life incident that saw him harshly booed at the premier of his play about a tutor who plays matchmaker while considering the priesthood. Colm Toibin's The Master drew from Leon Edel's essential work on this author Guy Domville, who wrote of revolutionary Paul Muniment in a novel called the apex of "moral realism" in Trilling's Liberal Imagination. He himself called characters like Mary Garland and Christina Light "perfect mirrors" in the much-studied (*) prefaces to the collected New York Edition of his works. He wrote of Rowland Mallet's discovery of the title sculptor in Roderick Hudson and of Hyacinth Robinson in The Princess Casamassima, but remains better known for characters like Basil Ransom, Christopher Newman, Lambert Strether, and Isabel Archer. For 10 points, identify this author of The Bostonians, The Ambassadors, and Portrait of a Lady, a brother of psychologist William.
Henry James [I guess you can prompt on "Henry" as the first clue is about him as a character]
7

100075-)
Two characters in this work are described as zealous reformers, but not Communists. The central character requests a whiskey at a party where he is served by a rude bartender and is talked about by a woman who hosts events where dentists are invited and dirty stories are told in mixed company. The protagonist of this story has a beer thrown at him and is insulted by passing motorists as he attempts to cross Route 424 and questions when the horseplay he is (*) engaging in became serious. This story's protagonist believes his daughters are playing tennis at his house and wonders why they are not there for dinner when he returns from the title activity. That man named a body after his wife Lucinda and leaves that woman at the Westerhazy's home at the beginning of this story. Neddy Merrill's mental breakdown is shown by his attempt to return home via suburban swimming pools in, for 10 points, what acclaimed short story by John Cheever?
"The Swimmer"
7

100086-)
In one work by this author, the speaker says, "I'm going out to fetch the little calf" and repeats, "I sha'n't be gone long.Â–You come too." Another of this author's poems tells how "far away an interrupted cry / Came over houses from another street;" that poem also describes how "A luminary clock against the sky / Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right." This poet of "The Pasture" created a speaker who notes, (*) "Something we were withholding made us weak," and then realizes "it was ourselves." One of this author's poems ends, "I have been one acquainted with the night," while another begins "The land was ours before we were the land's" and was read at JFK's inauguration. For 10 points, name this author of "The Gift Outright" and a work about a man who has "miles to go before [he] sleep[s]," "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."
Robert Lee Frost
7

100116-)
In this work, the narrator hears of a man who charged more than thirty thousand francs worth of food and drink over a year and then paid with a bad check; that man, Claude Fessenden, is no longer welcome at Paul's bar. One character in this work, who had once kissed a man named Webb, is imagined in a white dress on a swing, swinging faster and faster until her words are unintelligible; that character got (*) pneumonia after the narrator locked her out of her home during a snowstorm. Somehow, Duncan and Lorraine find the narrator's sister-in-law's home and drunkenly walk in, which angers Lincoln and Marion, the caretakers of Honoria. For 10 points, name this short story that tells how child custody is denied to the former-alcoholic Charlie Wales during his return to Paris, written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
"Babylon Revisited"
7

100132-)
One of this poet's works asks, "O minstrel galleons of Carib fire, / Bequeath us to no earthly shore," and that work begins by describing an "undinal vast belly" which "moonward bends / Laughing the wrapt inflections of our love." Another of this author's poems says "forsake our eyes / As apparitional as sails that cross some page of figures," and says of the title object, (*) "Only in darkness is thy shadow clear." This poet's love for Emil Opffer inspired his "Voyages" series and another of his works addresses the title figure "across the harbor, silver-paced" in its "Proem" opening section and has another section titled "Powhatan's Daughter." For 10 points, name this poet of the collection White Buildings who wrote an epic work about a New York Landmark, The Bridge.
Harold Hart Crane
7

100149-)
In this work, the narrator compares his suspicions to the "black wizards of the Ashantee" with hatchets. Dramatizations of this work and two Hawthorne stories are included in Robert Lowell's The Old Glory. Don Jose de Abos and Padilla's sworn statements are part of the frame story of this work, which also includes a notable scene in which the title character loses some blood when his servant is shaving him. At a climactic moment in this story, a tarpaulin falls off of a figurehead inscribed "follow your leader", revealing the skeleton of Alexandro Aranda. At the end of this work, which opens on board the Bachelor's Delight, we learn that Delano's suspicions about the title character are valid because his slave Babo is the one pulling the strings. For 10 points, identify this novella about a slave revolt on the San Dominick, a Piazza Tale by Herman Melville.
Benito Cereno
9

100174-)
When one character in this play protests "Hain't I yer lawful wife?" her husband answers, "Yew air my Rose of Sharon... yer two breasts air like two fawns." In the first act of this play, a bag of gold coins found under the floorboards helps two minor characters finance a trip to California, while during a celebration in the third act, an old man's dancing tires out the fiddler. After being (*) seduced in his mother's parlor, a character in this play decides to go west to join his brothers, Sim and Peter, but returns after having gone to get the sheriff, who ends this play by remarking on the "jim-dandy farm" belonging to Ephraim. All that happens while he's taking away Abbie Putnam, the wife of Ephraim, who has smothered the child she had with Ephraim's son Eben. For 10 points identify this play about the Cabot family by Eugene O'Neill
Desire Under the Elms
7

100186-)
In one of this man's poems, a father notes "something there is more immortal even than the stars" after his daughter weeps at the sight of the "lord-star Jupiter" and "the delicate brothers, the Pleiades." Another of his poems addresses his Soul, which is "Surrounded, surrounded, in measureless oceans of space." This poet of "On the Beach at Night" asked "Have you your pistols? Have you your sharp edged axes" in a poem which inspired the title of a (*) Willa Cather novel. The speaker of another of his poems "look'd up in perfect silence at the stars" after abandoning the "charts and the diagrams" of the title lecturer. He wrote of a child asking "what is the grass?" in a poem which includes a "barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world." For 10 points, name this American author of "The Noiseless Patient Spider," "I Hear America Singing," and "Song of Myself," who collected his poetry in Leaves of Grass.
Walt Whitman
7

100224-)
Two characters in this story are described as having bad moods that take shifts like guards, as one has indigestion in the mornings and the other is drunk in the afternoons. Near the end of this story, the narrator pays the "grub-man" to look after the title figure. The narrator's reading of Jonathan Edwards and Joseph Priestley inspires a brief period of charitability towards that figure, whom the narrator unexpectedly finds in his chambers one Sunday morning. One character in this work takes his nickname from the (*) cakes that turn out to be the title character's only sustenance, and it ends with the narrator reporting a rumor that the title character once worked at the Dead Letter Office in Washington. Ginger Nut, Nippers, and Turkey are the other employees at the law offices where this story's title character briefly works. For 10 points, name this short story about a copyist who repeatedly responds, "I would prefer not to," written by Herman Melville.
"Bartleby, the Scrivener: A Story of Wall-Street"
7

100231-)
One fictional character receives a congratulatory sodomizing for organizing this event in Times Square, after an abortive sexual encounter with one of its central participants left that character with the phrase "I AM A SCAMP" written in lipsticks on his buttocks. The titular protagonist finds the senile Selig Mindish at Disneyland after his sister Susan's suicide in a fictionalization of the aftermath of this event, the subject of a Robert (*) Coover novel narrated by Richard Nixon, The Public Burning. One of this event's central figures appears as a ghost in Tony Kushner's Angels in America haunting the shit out of Roy Cohn, and it inspired the aforementioned novel about the fractured Isaacson family, E.L. Doctorow's The Book of Daniel. For 10 points, identify this event which took place in a "queer, sultry summer" according to the opening line of The Bell Jar, which saw a Communist couple executed for espionage in 1953.
The Execution of the Rosenbergs [or the Trial; or any reasonable equivalents mentioning the Rosenbergs; prompt on partial answer; do NOT accept things like "McCarthy witch hunts" or anything general, as the clues are specific] 
7

100262-)
One of this author's poems notes that the speaker has only an old Roman coin that he got from Mike Kanemitsu and a bolt-head from a Madrid packing case in his pockets. Another of his poems ends with the speaker drinking a glass of papaya juice and declaring that "Poems by Pierre Reverdy" is his heart in his pocket. The collection featuring those poems also contains a work in which this man exclaims "we love you get up" to the title character upon seeing a newspaper headline. In another poem in that collection, this man recalls hearing a woman who "whispered a song along the keyboards," causing "everyone and I" to stop breathing. This author of "Lana Turner Has Collapsed" and "The Day the Lady Died", which exemplify his concept of "Personism", wrote a poem in which he discourses on the color orange and tells of visiting Mike Goldberg to see his painting Sardines. For 10 points, name this author of "Why I Am Not a Painter", a member of the New York School who described his noontime perambulations in his Lunch Poems.
Frank O'Hara [or Francis Russell O'Hara]
9

100295-)
Greg Johnson read this work as a gothic allegory, while Susan Lanser looked at "The Politics of Color in America" in an analysis of criticism about it. The protagonist of this work describes her surroundings as a "debased Romanesque." Near the end of this story, the main character insists that there is a key hidden under the plantain leaf, and it ends with the main character (*) crawling over the unconscious body of her husband. One character in this story repeatedly insists that he should be trusted because he is a doctor, but his wife still suspects that she can see a woman "on all fours" hiding behind the title entity in the room where she is confined. For 10 points, name this short story about a possibly insane woman prescribed rest by her husband John, written by Charlotte Perkins Gilman.
"The Yellow Wallpaper"
7

100308-)
A psychiatrist in this collection wears a mask with three smiles on it before shooting four men and then ultimately himself, while another character drives thousands of miles to separate himself from Genevieve Selsor. A third character, Sam Parkhill, appears in another story in this collection in which he and others kill Jeff Spender, who has ventured into an abandoned city and gone crazy. Other characters in this work include Captain Wilder, who leads the Fourth Expedition, and William Stendahl, who kills off his house guests by reenacting Edgar Allan Poe stories in (*) "Usher II." This collection also includes a story about an automated house burning to the ground, "There Will Come Soft Rains," as well as a story in which Ylla dreams of men visiting her planet in a rocket ship. For 10 points, name this collection of short stories by Ray Bradbury set primarily on the fourth planet from the sun.
The Martian Chronicles
7

100323-)
This author wrote about a woman who, despite being a captive, maintains belief in her faith and acquires her freedom due to God's grasp of the minds of men in his poem "Cassandra Southwick." He described the passage of a year as "heavy and slow" like a tortoise in a poem in which the speaker's observation that nothing has changed but the title creatures contrasts with the death of Mistress (*) Mary. He wrote about a woman who offers a traveling judge a drink of water, eventually coming to realize that she longs for wealth and prosperity and that the saddest "words of tongue or pen" are "It might have been!" This author of "Telling the Bees" used the setting of a "brief December day" to imagine "a universe of sky and snow!" For 10 points, name this author of "Maud Muller" and "Snow-Bound," a Quaker poet.
John Greanleaf Whittier
7

100349-)
In one story by this writer, a woman proclaims that she could not love a man who did not have the utmost love for his country, leading George Gearson to die at war. He claimed that, because American authors were not subject to social and political wrongs, and because the "wrong from class to class" in America has been so little, American writers focused on the "more smiling aspects of life." This author of "Editha" told the story of the declining marriage of Marcia Gaylord and (*) Bartley Hubbard in one novel. Tom Corey's relations with two sisters named Irene and Penelope drives the plot of one of his novels in which the sisters' father makes a fortune in the paint industry, and, in another work, Mr. Dryfoos bankrolls the magazine Every Other Week, which is run by Basil March. For 10 points, name this American realist author of A Modern Instance, the creator of Silas Lapham and A Hazard of New Fortunes.
William Dean Howells
7

100359-)
This author wrote about the disintegration of the marriage of Dennis and a passionate dreamer named Rosaleen in the story "The Cracked Looking Glass." In a novel by this author, a divorced and aging former Southern belle named Mary Treadwell dreams of recovering her youth in Paris. She wrote a short novel in which the bounty hunter Homer Hatch is killed by Royal Earle Thompson, who is trying to defend a Swedish (*) farmhand who suffers from violent attacks of madness. That novel appeared in the same collection as one in which Adam dies of the Spanish flu, which he had contracted while taking care of Miranda. She also wrote a story in which Laura is courted by Braggioni, a leader of the Mexican Revolution. For 10 points, name this author of Noon Wine and Pale Horse, Pale Rider, who also wrote "Flowering Judas" and Ship of Fools.
Katherine Anne Porter
7

100361-)
This author complained about the plotlessness of modern short stories in the essay "Trickster in a Suit of Lights." His own stories include one in which a grad student plagiarizes a dissertation on cloud movement, "A Model World." He wrote a mystery novel about the search for a mute boy's missing parrot, as well as a serial novel set in Khazaria about Amram and Zelikman. Recurring characters in his works include Eli (*) Drinkwater and the horror writer August Van Zorn. He wrote an alternative history novel set in Sitka, Alaska, in which Berko Shemets and Meyer Landsman investigate a plot to blow up the Dome of the Rock. More famously, he created a boy who escapes from Prague by hiding in a coffin with a golem and who, along with his cousin, invents a superhero called the Escapist. For 10 points, name this contemporary author of The Yiddish Policemen's Union and The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier &amp; Clay.
Michael Chabon
7

100387-)
He's not William Carlos Williams, but one of this author's poems addresses an asphodel as "O dear sweet rosy unattainable desire." He also wrote a poem which describes "a swarm of baggage sitting by the counter as the transcontinental bus pulls in." The speaker of one poem by this author is obsessed with Time magazine and addresses the title country by saying "I've given you all and now I'm nothing" as well as "Go (*) fuck yourself with your atom bomb." The speaker of another of his poems asks "Will we walk all night through solitary streets?" and observes another figure asking "Who killed the pork chops? What price bananas?" That poem describes Walt Whitman as a "childless, lonely old grubber." Part three of his most famous work begins with "Carl Solomon! I'm with you in Rockland." For 10 points, name this author of "A Supermarket in California" and "Howl."
Allen Ginsberg
7

100409-)
One poem by this author begins by stating that "My SorrowÂ… / Thinks these dark days of autumn rain / Are as beautiful as days can be." The speaker of one of his poems decides to turn back before saying "No, I will go on farther -- and we shall see," leading to his discovery of the decaying title object in the snow. Another poem ends by pondering if he faces sleep similar to a woodchuck's "or just some human sleep." In yet another poem, this author describes how "One (*) luminary clock against the sky / Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right." That poem by this author of "My November Guest" also proclaims that he has "outwalked the furthest city light" while walking the dark streets in a depressed mood. This author wrote "Acquainted with the Night," and in another poem he stated that "Good fences make good neighbors." For 10 points, name this author of "After Apple Picking" and "Mending Wall."
Robert Frost
7

100429-)
One character created by this author calls the narrator a "publishing scoundrel!" before she dies.Another character created by this author explains that he wants to be thought of as "bad" when he iscaught wandering on a lawn at night. In a story by this author, a biographer travels to Venice toinfiltrate the home of the former lover of the poet he writes about. In a work by this author, Luke isblamed for failing to deliver a (*) letter, which was actually burned by a boy who had been expelled fromschool. In that work by this author of The Aspern Papers, Mrs. Grose is employed alongside an unnamedgoverness, who looks after children at Bly, which may be haunted by the ghosts of Miss Jessel and Peter Quint.For 10 points, name this American author of The Turn of the Screw.
Henry James
7

100435-)
In this work, one character jokes that he'd throw all modern scientists off a cliff, except for StephenHawking, because doing that would lose him the sympathy vote. While analyzing grouse populations,another character in this play discovers an iterated function left in a notebook belonging to hisfamily. A girl in this play uses the example of being able to stir rice (*) pudding but not unstir it toderive a conceptual understanding of the Second Law of Thermodynamics. A character suspects that EzraChater was killed at Sidley Park by Lord Byron, but that theory is disproven by Hannah Jarvis, to the dismayof Bernard Nightingale in this play, which switches between 1809 and the present. For 10 points, SeptimusHodge tutors Thomasina Coverly in what play by Tom Stoppard?
Arcadia
7

100448-)
One character in this novel purchases a projector and several reels of cartoons, which he brings tohis friend in the hospital. Another character in this novel is falsely arrested by a sheriff's deputy fordrunkenness, while attempting to visit a judge on behalf of his son, whose feet were amputated inprison. A third character in this novel accidentally shoots Lucille's daughter with a rifle. Thatcharacter's sister has sex with a character whom she often mocks for being (*) Jewish, Harry Minowitz.In this novel, the maid Portia is the daughter of the black doctor Benedict Copeland. Jake Blount and BiffBrannon befriend the central character, who commits suicide after his mentally ill friend Spiros Antonapoulosdies. For 10 points, name this novel centering on the deaf-mute John Singer, by Carson McCullers.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
7

100463-)
In one of this man's works, one character packs her television and a blind Pekinese in boxes whichthe "van man" helps her take away. Earlier in that play by this author, that character tells the story ofhow a baby had its eyes gouged out and its hands cut off by Mommy and Daddy, who adopted their"bumble of joy" from the Bye-Bye Adoption Service. A character who feeds hamburgers to hislandlady's (*) dog for six days before poisoning it appears in another work by this author of The AmericanDream. That character, who keeps poking a man and asking him to move over on a bench, gets angry andtakes out a knife at the end of that work by this author. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote aboutJerry impaling himself after sitting in Central Park and talking to Peter in The Zoo Story.
Edward Albee [or Edward Franklin Albee III]
7

100481-)
This author created a character who goes through his poop to find his wedding ring while on ahorse-riding trip to Argentina. In another work by this author, a character tries to steal an expensivesalmon filet by hiding it in his pants, and later goes to Lithuania with Gitanas. Another charactercreated by this author founds an anti-population growth group called Free Space while working withthe Cerulean Mountain Trust to preserve warbler habitats in (*) West Virginia. That character is thecollege roommate of Traumatics frontman Richard Katz. This author wrote a novel about the marriage ofPatty and Walter Berglund, as well as one in which Enid Lambert wants her family to have a Christmas dinnertogether. For 10 points, name this American novelist of Freedom and The Corrections.
Jonathan Franzen
7

100484-)
In one of this author's works, characters continually gossip about an "Embassy Richard," who laments his failure to crash a party in the social pages. He set that novel at a hotel gala, where fogged-in train passengers Julia and Amabel battle for Max Adey's affections. In another of his works, the shocking loss of a sapphire ring leads to the appearance of an investigator from an insurance company with the same initials as the Irish Republican Army. At the end of that novel by this author, Charley Raunce elopes with the maid Edith, abandoning his post at Mrs. Tennant's castle during World War II. This author of Party Going made the celebrated claim that he was inspired to write his most famous novel when he heard a butler wax nostalgic about "lying in bed on Sunday morning...eating buttered toast with cunty fingers." For 10 points, name this British author who wrote about Birmingham factory workers in his novel Living and about the servants of Kinalty Castle in his novel Loving.
Henry Green [or Henry Vincent Yorke]
9

100496-)
The son of a supporting character in this work has his feet amputated after being punished for trying to run away from a prison camp. That supporting character is the father of the maid Portia, who is married to a man named Highboy. Another character in this novel plans a party for her high school classmates, but while that character is out with Harry, neighborhood children show up and the guests begin running races and jumping ditches. This novel's protagonist frequents Biff Brannon's New York CafÃ©, where the Socialist carousel mechanic Jake Blount talks to him because nobody else will listen to his ideas. Its protagonist rents a room from the Kelly family and hangs out with their tomboy daughter Mick, and he is also occasionally visited by Dr. Copeland, the only black man in town. After finding out that his Greek friend Spiros Antonopolous has died, this novel's protagonist shoots himself. For 10 points, name this book about the deaf-mute Mr. Singer, the debut novel of Carson McCullers.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
9

100522-)
One character in this novel gets gang-banged while her father is on leave in Honolulu. Joan Didion's review of this novel is titled for the sentence "Unless it's a joke or something, I want to go ahead and do it," and describes how one character boards a six-seat plane with a bread-bag containing the central character's ashes, which are scattered in the sky. The first chapter of this novel describes an incident in which a six-year old girl falls from an apple tree and is caught by the main character. This book is equally divided into two portions called "Western Voices" and "Eastern Voices." The reporter Lawrence Schiller collects the story of the central character, who arrives in Provo, Utah to live with his cousin Brenda Nicol, has a brief fling with Nicole Baker Barrett, and then murders Max Jensen and Benny Bushnell. For 10 points, identify this novel about death row inmate Gary Gilmore, written by Norman Mailer.
The Executioner's Song
9

100543-)
In an essay about "American Political Symbolism" in the novel in which he appears, Alan Heimert asserted that this character can be interpreted to represent the Barnburners. After drafting his will, this character muses that any time he stays alive is a bonus, much like Lazarus after his resurrection. He stumbles into an African-American church where a sermon on the "blackness of darkness" is being read, and he later listens to a sermon on (*) Jonah delivered by Father Mapple. He relates how, when he feels a "drizzly November" in his soul, he must turn towards the sea. In New Bedford, he sleeps in the same bed as a native of Kokovoko who is skilled with a harpoon. He clings to a coffin owned by Queequeg to escape drowning after witnessing a battle between a whale and Captain Ahab. For 10 points, name this narrator of Melville's Moby-Dick.
Ishmael
7

100549-)
This novel's first chapter describes the narrator reading books by Erika Ostrovsky and Theodore Roethke while traveling on a plane to meet Bernard O'Hare. This book's first chapter begins with the sentence "All this happened, more or less," and concludes with the assertion the final words will be "Poo-tee-weet." It includes a scene in which Edgar is killed for stealing a teapot. The last words of Roland Weary prompt Paul Lazarro to murder this novel's protagonist. While at a zoo, the main character is exhibited with Montana Wildhack. He also becomes "unstuck in time" and sees the firebombing of Dresden. For 10 points, name this novel about Billy Pilgrim, a work by Kurt Vonnegut.
Slaughterhouse Five or The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death
7

100586-)
This man opened his first poetry collection with the lines "Every time the bucks went clattering over Oklahoma a firecat bristled in the way," which appears in the poem "Earthy Anecdote." The narrator of another poem in the same collection knows "noble accents and lucid, inescapable rhythms" and points out "Among twenty snowy mountains, the only moving thing was the eye of" the title creature. Another poem by this author describes a woman whose "horny feet protrude" and begins "Call the roller of big cigars." For 10 points, name this American author of Harmonium, which contains his poems "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird" and "The Emperor of Ice Cream."
Wallace Stevens
7

100638-)
In one story by this author, Loch Morrison saves the orphan Easter from drowning at a summer camp. In another story by this author of "Moon Lake," an initially suspicious-seeming couple takes in R.J. Bowman before he suffers a fatal heart attack. This author also wrote a novella in which Clement Musgrove searches for his daughter Rosamund, the eventual wife of Jamie Lockhart. This author of (*) "Death of a Traveling Salesman" and The Robber Bridegroom also wrote a story in which a nurse asks after the grandson of Phoenix Jackson when she comes to pick up his medicine. In a novel by this author of "A Worn Path," Fay travels to Mount Salus, Mississippi after the death of Judge McKelva, whose daughter Laurel has moved to Chicago. For 10 points, name this author of The Optimist's Daughter.
Eudora Welty
7

100653-)
The second stanza of this poem features a description of a place where "The dark will end the dark, if anything." The speaker claims, "God slays himself with every leaf that flies, / and hell is more than half of paradise" in a stanza that details the absence of a dawn "to rift the fiery night that's in your eyes". The speaker of this poem claims "I come to quench the kiss / that flames upon your forehead with a glow" in the third stanza, which also contains the repeated assertion "Out of the grave I come to tell you this." The speaker of this poem discusses a location "where the vines cling crimson on the wall" and the title character "in the twilight [will] wait for what will come." For 10 points, name this poem published in the collection The Children of the Night, an E.A. Robinson work in which the speaker implores the title character to "go to the western gate".
"Luke Havergal"
9

100673-)
This novel's author attempted to incorporate every line of T.S. Eliot's Four Quartets into it. One character in this novel carries around a draft of a play composed entirely of things he hears other people say. That character later remains at a banana plantation on Barbados after falling off of a horse. Fifty-five mostly-poor reviews of this book were sharply criticized in jack green's article "Fire the Bastards!". Late in this novel, the protagonist becomes involved in a scheme to create a mummy with Mr. Yak, who is actually Frank Sinisterra in disguise. In this novel's final scene, Stanley's extremely loud playing of an organ mass causes the Church of San Fenestrula to collapse on him. The critic Basil Valentine and the collector Recktall Brown employ this novel's protagonist in a scheme to create and sell works supposedly painted by the Old Masters. For 10 points, identify this novel about the art forger Wyatt Gwyon, the first by William Gaddis.
The Recognitions
9

100679-)
One section of this poem tells of a place where "the Lily-white Boy is a Roarer", a reference to the folk son "Green Grow the Rushes, O". That section describes how "the crack in the tea-cup opens / a lane to the land of the dead". One of this poem's speakers laments that "In headaches and in worry / Vaguely life leaks away". This poem closes by noting that "the deep river ran on" and opens with a stanza relating how "the crowds upon the pavement / were fields of harvest wheat". "One of this poem's speakers asserts "I'll love you / Till China and Africa meet", while the other major speaker advises the listener to "let not Time deceive you / You cannot conquer Time". For 10 points, identify this poem in which W.H. Auden listens to the lovers and clocks of Bristol Street during a twilight stroll.
"As I Walked Out One Evening"
9

100692-)
When this novel's protagonist is asked whether he cares for human progress, he responds by asking, "I don't knowÂ…are you going to show me some?" That protagonist submits Carlylean political commentary to the Rational Review while working for Adeline Luna, who constantly flirts with him. The mesmerist quack Selah and the pioneering Dr. Prance attend the party hosted by Miss Birdseye that opens this work. Lesbian overtones have been assigned to the protagonist's cousin Olive Chancellor's desire that this novel's heroine move in with her and become a feminist leader, though that heroine eventually agrees to elope with Olive's cousin rather than give a speech at a music hall. For 10 points, name this novel about Basil Ransom's love for Verena Tarrant, a resident of the title town, written by Henry James.
The Bostonians
9

100703-)
In one poem, this author asks "sailor will your sword / whistle and fall and sink into the fat? / In thegreat ash-pit of Jehoshaphat". In another poem by him, the speaker declares "There are nomonuments for the last war here; / on Boylston Street, a commercial photograph / shows Hiroshimaboiling." A third poem by him says: "we have lost our summer millionaire, / who seemed to springfrom an (*) L.L. Bean catalogue." The speaker declares "I myself am death" in that poem by him about"Nautilus Island's hermit heiress." This author of "The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket" wrote of "a savageservility" that "slides by on grease" at the end of a poem inspired by a statue of Colonel Shaw. For 10 points,name this poet of "Skunk Hour" and "For the Union Dead."
Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV]
7

100725-)
The protagonist of this novel has a copy of Dostoyevsky's The Eternal Husband thrown at him whilehe is chasing after a speeding car in his neighborhood and simultaneously holding a spoonful oftomato sauce. The protagonist of this novel correctly identifies a freshly shaven man as the rapist ofa twelve-year-old girl after confronting him at a park bathroom. A ten-year-old in this novel loses an(*) eye after his father rear ends a car in their driveway, in which his wife is performing oral sex on anotherman. While in Vienna, the protagonist's mother writes her bestselling autobiography, A Sexual Suspect, whichdescribes how she conceived the protagonist with a disabled Technical Sergeant. For 10 points, Jenny Fields'sson is the title novelist in what work by John Irving?
The World According to Garp
7

100744-)
In the third section of a poem by this author, he says that "We see toh kalon / decreed in themarketplace," and ends that poem with a section called "Medallion". This author asks "O GEATERRA, what draws as thou drawest?" in a section of another poem that draws heavily from ThomasHart Benton. A poem by this author says that the title figure's "true (*) Penelope was Flaubert" and thathe "sought to resuscitate the dead art of poetry." This author's best known work includes a China section, andthe first Bollingen Prize was awarded to the Pisan section of that work. For 10 points, name this politicalfascist who penned Hugh Selwyn Mauberly and the Cantos.
Ezra Pound [or Ezra Weston Loomis Pound]
7

100750-)
One character in this play yells "Where did you learn your trade [?...] Whoever told you that youcould work with men?!" when another character tells an unhelpful lie. In this play, a characterdelivers a monologue about a woman bringing him a cigarette after sex, while his "balls feel likeconcrete." A character in this play pretends to be an executive from American Express to preventJames (*) Lingk from canceling a contract. A competition in which the winner receives a Cadillac and theloser is fired is announced by Mitch and Murray before the action of this play. At its conclusion, Ricky Romademands half of Shelley "The Machine" Levene's commissions and the best leads. For 10 points, name thisplay titled after two plots of land that real estate agents attempt to sell, written by David Mamet.
Glengarry Glen Ross
7

100756-)
This poem's speaker describes its central event as "just another kind of outdoor game." "Spring isthe mischief" in this poem's speaker, who considers "Elves" as something that might object to thetitle object. The speaker notes that a certain phrase should apply only where there are (*) cows, andthat "here there are no cows." Some falling objects in this poem irritate the speaker, prompting him to "use aspell to make them balance." This poem's speaker mentions that "some are loaves and some so nearly balls"when comparing the shapes of some fallen stones. The speaker claims that his "apple tree will never getacross / And eat the cones" under his neighbor's pines. For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem containingthe line "Good fences make good neighbors".
"Mending Wall"
7

100778-)
One story by this author opens with a man testifying in court about a neighbor who refused to mendhis pigpen, allowing a hog to keep escaping. In that story by him, a character is charged ten bushelsof corn for purposely ruining a manure-stained rug after being ordered to clean it. In another storyby him, a druggist writes a label saying "for rats" after a customer refuses to explain her plans for (*)arsenic. Major de Spain stops an arson attempt by Abner Snopes at the end of a story by him. Another of hisstories ends with single strand of grey hair in the nostrils of the corpse of Homer Barron, indicating the titlewoman had been sleeping with the dead body. For 10 points, name this Southern author of "Barn Burning"and "A Rose for Emily".
William Faulkner [or William Cuthbert Faulkner]
7

100789-)
This author wrote a work in which a panhandler is appointed Secretary of State and a baboon isappointed to the Supreme Court. That piece, "Roosevelt After Inauguration", is in a collection with "IAm Dying, Meester?", which is an early demonstration of a technique this author developed withBrion Gysin. The Mugwumps and Reptiles fight in a work by this author of the (*) Yage Letters. Thisauthor, who rearranged texts in his cut-up technique, wrote a novel whose protagonist works for IslamIncorporated during his visit to a land ruled by Dr. Benway. Later in that novel, the Interzone, which is looselyinspired by Tangiers, is visited by that protagonist, William Lee. For 10 points, name this author of NakedLunch, a member of the Beat generation.
William S. Burroughs [or William Seward Burroughs II; or William Lee until it is read]
7

100811-)
This poet prays "Orestes-like" for the title character to lay her "finger on the lips of care" in his "Hymn to the Night." This poet asked "blue-eyed banditti" if "such an old mustache as I am/is not a match for you all!" in a poem about "Grave Alice, and laughing Allegra, and Edith with golden hair." This poet of (*) "The Children's Hour" published the first American translation of the Divine Comedy. He wrote a long poem in dactylic hexameter in which the title character reunites with Gabriel Lajeunesse after they are expelled from Acadia. For 10 points, name this American poet of Evangeline who wrote about "the banks of Gitche-Gumee" in The Song of Hiawatha.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
7

100813-)
In this novel, the insensitive Mercedes, her brother Hal, and her husband Charles die when a frozen waterway gives in after they ignore warnings against continuing. The protagonist of this work costs a man named Matthewson a thousand dollars in a bet when he is able to move a load consisting of a thousand pounds of flour. That protagonist is absent when Yeehat Indians attack a mining camp and kill (*) John Thornton. This work's protagonist is horrified by the death of Curly and engages in a deadly fight with his main assailant, Spitz. A savage beating had earlier taught this work's protagonist that he was no match for a man with a club. This novel's plot is set in motion when Miguel steals and sells Judge Miller's pet. For 10 points, name this novel in which Buck reverts to his wolfish ways, a work of Jack London.
The Call of the Wild
7

100831-)
A modified tune from The Mikado is repeatedly sung in this short story, in which Mr. Wilson accuses Mr. Billson of stealing a letter at a town meeting where eighteen men claim that they saved the life of Barclay Goodson. This short story ends with one man confessing that he too had claimed the central object, which Reverend Burgess is supposed to give to the man who saved a stranger's life. That man can be identified by a certain remark, which no one in this story's title (*) town can correctly guess. After everyone becomes greedy, the previously virtuous title town changes its motto to "Lead us into temptation." A mysterious man gives Mary and Edward Richards a sack of gold in, for 10 points, what short story by Mark Twain?
"The Man that Corrupted Hadleyburg"
7

100854-)
This man noted that "they are all gone away" and "there is nothing more to say" in a villanelle about "The House on the Hill." This man compares a lonely old man to "Roland's ghost winding a silent horn" while drinking alone above his town in "Mr. Flood's Party." This author notes "hell is more than half of paradise" in one poem and describes a man who (*) "dreamed of Thebes and Camelot, / and Priam's neighbors" but "kept on drinking" in another. This author of "Luke Havergal" also described a man "admirably schooled in every grace" who "went home and put a bullet through his head." For 10 points, name this poet, who populated his Tilbury Town with such characters as Miniver Cheevy and Richard Cory.
Edwin Arlington Robinson
7

100876-)
The title character of this novel is forced to perform cunnelungus on a German housekeeper named Wilhelmine. The narrator of this novel inherits $500 from his great-grandfather's sale of the slave, Artiste, down to Georgia. In this novel, the title character is in a toxic relationship with a drug addict named (*) Nathan Landau, who talks her into a double-suicide with sodium cyanide. The narrator of this novel is an author avatar named "Stingo" who wants to write a novel about Nat Turner. For 10 points, name this novel by William Styron, whose title character is forced to decide which of her children survives the Holocaust.
Sophie's Choice
7

100890-)
One of these works tells of how the protagonist's father used to repair pianos and of how she formed a lifelong bond with Sara Kilpatrick after suckling with her; that work is by Mary Reynolds. A different example of them relates how the protagonist's 100 dollar debt was stealthily converted into 1000 dollars; that work ends with the protagonist traveling to Canada and is by Josiah Henson. Another one was written under the pseudonym of Linda (*) Brent. The protagonist of one of these works beats Mr. Covey in a lengthy struggle and is treated cruelly by Thomas Auld. In another, the protagonist ventures to the Arctic aboard the Racehorse and marries Susanna Cullen after being given the name of the Swedish monarch Gustavus Vassa. For 10 points, name these works, some of which were written by Harriet Jacobs, Olaudah Equiano, and Frederick Douglass, that detail their author's time spent in bondage.
slave narratives [accept equivalents; do not accept captivity narratives; accept answers referencing the people in the last sentence]
7

100898-)
The only example given of this character's "double haikus" is the poem "John Keats / John Keats / John / Please put your scarf on." This son of vaudeville performers gets angry at a woman who stares at his feet in one work, and in another work he requests many "stupid" books in a letter home from camp. Buddy is the only one of this man's siblings who can attend his marriage to (*) Muriel Fedder. This narrator of "Hapsworth 16, 1924" starred on the quiz radio show "It's a Wise Child" with his other siblings, including Walt and Waker. Muriel also appears in a short story in which this man tells the child Sybil to be on watch for a certain animal before shooting himself in the head. For 10 points, name this protagonist of "A Perfect Day for Bananafish," the eldest of the Glass family children.
Seymour Glass [prompt on Glass before it is read]
7

100915-)
This author wrote about Paul Hussey's attempts to illegally sell dresses in Soviet Russia in his novel Honey for the Bears, while another of his characters dies shortly after writing a film adaptation of Gerard Manley Hopkins's "Wreck of the Deutschland" and composes poetry while sitting on the toilet. The gluttonous bishop Carlo Campanati and the gay writer Kenneth Toomey appear in one of his works, and this author of (*) Inside Mr. Enderby created the educator Victor Crabbe in Time for the Tiger, the first novel in his trilogy about the withdrawal of the British from Malaysia. This author of Earthly Powers and the The Long Day Wanes trilogy is better known for writing about the Korova Milkbar, which is frequented by George, Pete, Dim, and a subject of the Ludovico Technique, Alex. For 10 points, name this British author of A Clockwork Orange.
Anthony Burgess [or John Anthony Burgess Wilson]
7

100933-)
In one of this author's novels, Mrs. Green dies of cardiac arrest after opening a can of peanuts with a gag snake inside, inspiring her husband to murder his colleagues with exploding cigars. In that work, the title object is sought by a group of wheelchair-ridden terrorists from Quebec. This man's most recently released novel praises the virtue of "enduring tedium" with the example of IRS agents in Peoria, Illinois. That novel was compiled by his friend, Michael Pietsch, from papers he left after his 2008 (*) suicide. This author of The Pale King also wrote about Hal Incandenza's time at the Enfield Tennis Academy in a 900 page, footnote-ridden doorstop. For 10 points, name this author of Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace
7

100951-)
One poem claims that this city has "rivers overflowing with the corpses of babies" and describes the speaker's disillusionment with its "Legs and breasts without smell or sweat;" that poem was written by Leopold Senghor.  In a novel set here, Peter Stillman, who was kept from humanity by his abusive father for nine years, hires an author of detective fiction as an actual detective. This city is the setting for the novels Ghosts, The Locked Room, and (*) City of Glass. Garcia Lorca titled one of his collections "The Poet in" this city, the setting for a trilogy by Paul Auster. For 10 points, name this city home to a biweekly "Review of Books," also the setting for Walt Whitman's "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry."
New York City
7

100955-)
The protagonist of this work feels he is capable of "drawing a magic circle" around his wife "which no evil might intrude." The narrator of this story notes that the chuckling of a man described as having a "smoky aspect" and "indescribable earthiness" represents the triumph of earth over immortality. One character in this work is entertained by optical illusions but horrified by a failed attempt at a (*) photograph and a quick-dying flower. In this work, the assistant Aminadab laughs at the failure of a concoction that had been tested on a plant. For 10 points, name this short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne in which Aylmer kills Georgiana in his attempt to remove the titular blemish.
"The Birthmark"
7

100974-)
This author wrote "Your mind and you are our Sargasso Sea" in a poem concluding "There is nothing that's quite your own / yet this is you." This poet of "Portrait d'une Femme" published Joyce's Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man in his periodical, The Egoist. He described a "clear soprano" as "Luini in porcelain!" in the poem "Medallion," which appears alongside "Mr. Nixon" in a work about a man who "strove to resuscitate the dead art/of poetry." Another of his poems consists of the lines (*) "The apparition of these faces in a crowd/petals on a wet, black bough." This man wrote Hugh Selwyn Mauberley and "In a Station of the Metro," as well as a work whose sections include "Pisan" and "Rock-Drill." For 10 points, name this Imagist poet who expressed Fascist ideals in the Cantos.
Ezra Pound
7

100988-)
In one of this author's novels, Rosamund finds her husband in bed with Darling Jill and proceeds to beat both their naked bodies with a hairbrush. In that novel, Will Thompson tears Griselda's clothes apart and makes her his the night before he is killed during a sit-in at a mill. In another of his novels, Lov loses a bag of (*) turnips after being raped by his sister-in-law, Ellie May. He created Bessie Rice, who spends nearly all her money on a useless Ford, as well as the gold-obsessed Ty Ty Walden. This man described a shift of the wind that causes a fire on the sedge to burn down the land of Jeeter Lester in his most famous novel.  For 10 points, name this author, who wrote about poor, white sharecroppers in such novels as God's Little Acre and Tobacco Road.
Erskine Caldwell
7

101019-)
In one work by this author, the only character to understand the true identity of the late-arriving young man is the Grandma who Mommy and Daddy wish to send to a nursing home. A character in another play by this author owns little besides a Western Union typewriter that only prints capital letters. In that work by this author of The American Dream, set in Central Park, (*) Jerry forces Peter to pick up a knife in order to impale himself on it. This man also wrote a work in which Nick and Honey witness a fight involving the means by which one character became an orphan and the death of a son George and Martha may not have really had. For 10 points, name this author of Zoo Story and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee
7

101038-)
One character in this novel holds and often participates in fights between his slaves at his estate, to the disgust of his wife, and was inspired to build his fortune after being told to bring a message to the back door of a large estate. That character who abandons Eulalia is ultimately killed by Wash Jones after impregnating and insulting (*) Milly. A question from Shreve about the south leads one narrator to tell the story forming this novel, in which Henry kills Charles Bon for his plans to marry their sister Judith. This novel's narrators include Rosa Coldfield and Quentin Compson. For 10 points, name this novel by William Faulkner about the Sutpen family.
Absalom, Absalom!
7

101045-)
One character in this story says "I would fain have been loved, not feared" as part of a speech that she makes before dying. Another character tells the story of an Indian prince who gives a gift to Alexander the Great of a beautiful woman with the intent of killing him. The protagonist of this story is given a silver phial made by Benvenuto Cellini by a friend of his father that contains a liquid intended for his beloved. For the cost of a piece of gold, Lisabetta shows that protagonist a (*) secret passage leading into a garden. This story's protagonist is shocked to find that a bouquet of flowers that he buys begins to wilt and droop after a short time in his presence, and he earlier talks to Professor Baglioni about a scientist with little care for humanity who obsesses over his child, Beatrice. For 10 points, name this story about Giovanni's love for the title poisonous character by Nathaniel Hawthorne.    
"Rappaccini's Daughter"
7

101083-)
One character in this work proclaims that "Things went to smash" after his imaginary friends leave him, while another character in this work is a doctor who wears the same outfit for ten years. In one part of this work, Hal Winters decides to marry the girl he got pregnant despite not receiving advice from the conflicted Ray Pearson. Its opening tells of a man who imagines the people from his memories as (*) "grotesques." Enoch Robinson appears in its chapter titled "Loneliness," and it also contains "The Untold Lie" and "Paper Pills." This work's main character loses his virginity to Louise Trunnion in "Nobody Knows," and he does not understand the sexual tension of his conversations with "The Teacher" Kate Swift. For 10 points, name this collection of stories about the title Midwestern town narrated by George Willard, a work of Sherwood Anderson.
Winesburg, Ohio
7

101096-)
One character in this novel is a former Buchenwald doctor who loves to prescribe LSD. This novel mentions a band called Sick Dick and the Volkswagens, who have a song called "I Want to Kiss Your Feet." The protagonist of this novel watches Prince Niccolo get captured by three stuttering men in black before he is able to meet with Gennaro. Unfortunately, the protagonist is thwarted by the suicide of (*) Randolph Driblette before she can discover the historical significance of the events portrayed in a fake Jacobean revenge tragedy. Other characters include Pierce Inverarity, Mike Fallopian, and various employees of Yoyodyne. The protagonist of this novel uncovers the rivalry between Thurn und Taxis and Trystero, whose symbol is a muted post horn. For 10 points, name this novel about Oedipa Maas by Thomas Pynchon.
The Crying of Lot 49
7

101125-)
This author juxtaposes the narrative of a draft dodger who moves to Hawaii with tales of her experience teaching writing workshops for veterans in a work written after her initial attempt at it was destroyed in a fire. That work, The Fifth Book of Peace, continues the story of Tana da Weese's playwright husband, (*) Wittman Ah Sing. This author explained the punishment of an adulterous aunt and described a girl left to fend for herself on the mountain of the white tigers in the tales of the No-Name Woman and Fa Mu Lan, which she included in her memoir "of a Girlhood Among Ghosts." For 10 points, name this author of Tripmaster Monkey and The Woman Warrior.
Maxine Hong Kingston
7

101129-)
In one of this author's stories, the narrator and his wife, Isabel, are grieved when their young daughter Grace dies of polio. The title character of that story by this author works through his heroin addiction by playing piano in Creole's jazz band. In one of this author's novels, the protagonist enjoys wrestling with Brother Elisha, and his stepfather once had an illegitimate son, Royal, with Esther while he was married to Deborah. In that novel by this author of  (*) "Sonny's Blues", the wild Roy is the favorite of his father Gabriel, despite the religious epiphany experienced by John Grimes. For 10 points, name this African-American author of Go Tell it on the Mountain.
James Arthur Baldwin
7

101163-)
In a story by this author, a grizzly bear named Joaquin accompanies the title character on errands forher paralyzed friend Jim. In another story by this author, a character attempts to tell the story of theIliad, even though he mispronounces Achilles's name as "Ash-heels." In that story by this author, acharacter's epitaph is written on a deuce of clubs and pinned to a pine tree. In that story by him,Mother (*) Shipton starves herself to save food for Piney Woods. In a story by this author of "Miggles," achild known as "The Coyote" is christened as "Thomas" by Stumpy but cannot be rescued by Kentuck fromdrowning in a catastrophic flood. For 10 points, name this American short-story writer of "The Luck ofRoaring Camp" and "The Outcasts of Poker Flat".
Bret Harte [or Francis Bret Harte]
7

101174-)
The speaker of this poem decides to use "sea-winds blown from east and west" to perfume a location.That speaker of this poem decides to decorate a house with, among other things, "floods of theyellow gold of the gorgeous, indolent, sinking sun". The last section of this poem begins "Passing thevisions, passing the night, passing, unloosing the hold of my comrade's hand." Its speaker invokesthe "western (*) orb sailing the heaven" before returning to the theme of the hermit thrush. Earlier in thispoem, its speaker places a flower upon a passing coffin. It begins by referencing the "great star early droop'din the western sky." For 10 points, name this elegy for Abraham Lincoln, written by Walt Whitman.
"When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd"
7

101205-)
While driving around a lake, one character created by this author reminisces about a dead friendwho argues that the existence of God is "necessary as an idea." Another character created by thisauthor wears a necklace of human tongues shortly after refusing to carry a gun while out on anambush. In a novel by this author, the Third Squad goes after a soldier walking to Paris, after (*) PaulBerlin suggests that they retrieve him. In the first short story of a collection by this author, Lieutenant JimmyCross blames himself for the death of Ted Lavender because Cross was focusing on his unrequited love forMartha. The title objects of that short story collection by this author include dog tags, morphine, and fear. For10 points, name this author of Going After Cacciato and The Things They Carried.
Tim O'Brien [or Wiliam Timothy O'Brien]
7

101211-)
In one of this author's works, the narrator wonders whether the mute cook Maggie was really black,after a childhood friend calls her a bigot for kicking that cook. In another of this author's works, awoman overhears the schoolteacher talk about "characteristics" and asks an ailing widow what thatword means. State wards Roberta and Twyla switch beds every night while living at a shelter, andmeet repeatedly throughout their lives in (*) "Recitatif," this author's only short story. In a novel by thisauthor, a spirit comes back to haunt 124 Bluestone Road after her mother kills her in Baby Suggs's backyardand nurses Denver with milk and her sister's blood. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about theescaped slave Sethe protecting her children by killing them in the novel Beloved.
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford]
7

101236-)
In one novel by this author, one character angers another by correctly guessing that the racehorseTragopan is owned by a Greek. In a scene from another novel by him, two characters pretend to beHavelock Ellis and Kraft-Ebbing while interrogating an old man about his homosexuality. Hedepicted Jujutla fighting a cock handled by the dwarf (*) Abe Kusich in the garage of a character whocauses a riot in front of Kahn's Persian Palace Theatre by attacking Adore Loomis. He created a protagonistwho is shot by the cripple Peter Doyle and tormented by his editor Shrike. The protagonist of one of hisnovels becomes infatuated with Faye Greener, the girlfriend of Homer Simpson, and paints "The Burning ofLos Angeles." For 10 points, name this author of Miss Lonelyhearts and The Day of the Locust.
Nathanael West [or Nathan Weinstein]
7

101242-)
This poet wrote of a boy "who'd never heard / Of any world in which promises were kept, / Or onecould weep because another wept". This author wrote that "all the instruments agree the day of hisdeath was a dark cold day" in a poem eulogizing a fellow poet. One poem by him features therefrain: "She looked over his shoulder". Another poem by this author talks of "dense (*) commuters"who come "from the conservative dark into the ethical life", and "ironic points of light" that "flash outwherever the Just exchange their messages". That poem begins "in one of the dives on Fifty-Second Street"and says: "we must love one another or die". For 10 points, name this poet of "The Shield of Achilles", "InMemory of W.B. Yeats", and "September 1, 1939".
W.H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]
7

101251-)
In one poem by this author, the speaker describes "Counting the red stars and those of plum-color".That poem by this author begins: "I shall never get you put together entirely / Pieced, glued, andproperly jointed". One poem by this author declares: "The child's cry / Melts in the wall. / And I /am the arrow". This author described a "Polish town / Scraped flat by the roller / Of wars, war, wars"in one poem. This poet of "The (*) Colossus" described the title figure as "Marble-heavy, a bag full of God"and "A man in black with a Meinkampf look" in a poem based on her troubled relationship with her fatherOtto. For 10 points, name this American confessional poet whose collection Ariel includes "Daddy" and waspublished two years after her suicide.
Sylvia Plath
7

101262-)
This character will forgo battling with the world and will live amid human joy as her tears hit her father's cheek. She tells Mr. Wilson that she was not made, but "plucked by her mother off the bush of wild roses." While at Bellingham's mansion, she is told she needs her own sunshine. After she refuses to cross a brook, she receives a kiss which she promptly washes off. While at a scaffold, "this elf child" and her mother view a meteor blazing across the sky when Winthrop dies. Despite her mother's marriage to Roger Chillingworth, that mother procreates with Reverend Dimmesdale. For 10 points, name this child of Hester Prynne who appears in The Scarlet Letter.
Pearl Prynne [prompt "Prynne"]
7

101313-)
This writer argued that a poem's worth is measured by how much it elevates the soul and that a long poem is not a poem in "The Poetic Principle." In one poem, this author wrote "the play is the tragedy 'Man' and its hero" is the title creature. In another poem by this author, the title figure is "my darling- my darling- my life and my bride" and she resides "in the sepulcher there by the sea." The title figure of another of his poems sits on the bust of Pallas Athene. That poem describes a "rare and radiant maiden whom the angels named Lenore" and a creature who repeatedly says "Nevermore." For 10 points, name this author "The Raven" and "Annabel Lee."
Edgar Allan Poe
7

101316-)
One character imagines that this scene will bring the arrival of "oldtimers with strange license platesÂ—from Maine,Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire!" One attendee in this scene angrily states that "I'm not licked that easily. I'mstaying right in this city, and I'm gonna beat this racket!" In this scene, which ends with the sound of a barely audibleflute that also opens the play it is a part of, a woman stifles her coming tears and reveals that she "made the last paymenton the (*) house today...And there'll be nobody home." A speech that imagines the central character of this scene "riding on asmile and a Shoeshine" repeats "nobody dast blame this man." The transition to this scene involves a single cello string pulsing,muting the crash of a speeding car. It occurs in a section titled "Requiem" as the last scene in its play. For 10 points, name thisscene that centers on an event attended by Linda, Happy, and Biff, who remember and mourn a suicidal salesman.
Willy's funeral [or Loman's funeral or the funeral in Death of a Salesman; accept "Requiem" before mentioned; prompt on funeral or equivalents throughout]
9

101345-)
In one of this author's poems, a birthmark that was "shaped for luck" allows the wife of a serial killer to identify their son,who returns to his parents' tavern and is mistaken for one of their targets. Another poem by this person imagines hearinghistory dripping "in darkness like the leaking pipe in a cellar." One of this writer's characters gains popularity after afire-escape collapse kills three schoolchildren. This person wrote a folk-ballad about Billie Potts and used soaring hawkimagery in the poems "The Heart of Autumn," (*) "Mortal Limit," and "Evening Hawk," collected in Promises and Now andThen. This author repudiated "The Briar Patch," his pro-segregationist contribution to the Southern manifesto I'll Take My Stand.The narrator of one of this writer's novels learns that his real father is not "the Scholarly Attorney," theorizes "The Great Twitch,"and researches his ancestor Cass Mastern. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Jack Burden in All the King's Men.
Robert Penn Warren
9

101377-)
This poet mused "thine eyes shall see the light of distant skies" in his poem addressed to Thomas Cole. This poet states "The golden sun / The planets, all the infinite host of heaven / Are shining on the sad abodes of death" in a poem that asks the reader to "take the wings of morning, pierce the Barcan wilderness." He asked "Far, through their rosy depths, dost thou pursue / Thy solitary way?" in another poem. This author described a "various language" that is spoken "To him who in the love Nature holds" in a poem whose title is Greek for "meditation upon death".  For 10 points, name this early American poet who penned "To a Waterfowl" and "Thanatopsis."
William Cullen Bryant
7

101389-)
In chapter 20, this work's title character makes the realization that a doll is manipulated by a black string in its back. In this novel, Mr. Emerson's son reveals to the narrator that his recommendation letter actually warns employers against hiring him before giving him a job at Liberty Paints. That letter was written by Bledsoe, who expels the narrator from college. An often separately published "Battle Royale" chapter in this novel features a fight among black boys, and the title character moves to New York, joins the Brotherhood, and becomes an orator in Harlem. For 10 points, name this novel about a nameless black man written by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [do not accept "The Invisible Man"]
7

101421-)
By knowing how "way leads on to way," the speaker of this poem doubts "if I should ever come back" and shows regret with the line "I shall be telling this with a sigh / Somewhere ages and ages hence." The man in this poem observes objects that "morning equally lay / In leaves no step had trodden black."  In this poem, the speaker chose "the other, as just as fair" because it was "grassy and wanted wear." The speaker of this poem notes "I took the one less traveled by" and it has "made all the difference." For 10 points, name this poem that begins "Two roads diverged in a yellow wood," a work of Robert Frost.
"The Road Not Taken"
7

101443-)
In one scene of this novel, a body is surrounded by candles and is covered by two strips of silk from a Chinese tapestryarranged in the shape of St. Andrew's cross. One character in this novel looks at a chessboard and concludes that "knightshad no meaning in this game. It wasn't a game for knights," recalling his observation of a stained-glass image of a knightfailing to save a damsel. In this novel, a crucial camera plate-holder is not found during the stakeout of a rare bookshopserving as a front for a (*) pornography racket headed by the gay character Geiger. The protagonist gives the nickname "SilverWig" to Mona Mars after learning of the murder of bootlegger Rusty Regan by Vivian and Carmen. For 10 points, name thisdetective novel in which General Sternwood enlists the aid of Philip Marlowe, a Raymond Chandler work whose title is aeuphemism for death.
The Big Sleep
9

101463-)
In this play, a man asks "You know what luck is? Luck is believing you're lucky." Later, that man smashes dishes at a birthday dinner where he gives a bus ticket to a hotel. Its female lead tells of the suicide of Allan Gray - her husband that killed himself when she learned he was homosexual. The central male character of this work manifests his anger by chucking a radio out of a window during a poker game with Steve, Pablo, and Mitch. The protagonist of this play states that she has "always depended on the kindness of strangers" and is raped by Stanley Kowalski at its end. For 10 points, name this play that glimpses into the life of Blanche Dubois, a work of Tennessee Williams.
A Streetcar Named Desire
7

101480-)
In one scene in this work, a man with a rock lens spectacle is erotically engaged with a Bible, while another curious scene depicts a man waist deep in ash in front of a burning Aleph.  One of its central characters fantasizes she is in Antarctica, but it is revealed she is arrested at Brooklyn's Prospect Park. A man in this play who is plagued by the possibility of disbarment is chastised by the nurse Belize for not sharing his hoard of AZT. In another scene, the lawyer Roy Cohn is haunted by the ghost of Ethel Rosenberg. Walter Prior is afraid Louis will leave him in this play in which a Mormon couple splits as Joe leaves his wife Harper for Louis. For 10 points, name this "gay fantasia on national themes," a play by Tony Kushner.
Angels in America
7

101502-)
One poem by this author notes "Lives of great men all remind us we can make our lives sublime," after boldly imploring "Tell me not, in mournful numbers, Life is but an empty dream!" In another poem, this man honored "Grave Alice, and laughing Allegra, And Edith with golden hair." This author of "A Psalm of Life" and "The Children's Hour" began another poem "Listen my children and you shall hear" the title event. He included that poem in Tales of a Wayside Inn. Another one of his works is set "by the shores of Gitchee Gumee, by the shining Big-Sea-Water." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Paul Revere's Ride" and "The Song of Hiawatha."
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
7

101524-)
One of this author's characters is a college student who tries to stop the ticking of his father's watch by twisting its hands off before he goes out to meet "the Deacon." A story by this author depicts how a silver toilet inscribed with the initials "H.B." convinces town folk of a marriage. In that story, the mayor gives a tax exemption to a woman who keeps Homer Barron's body at her bedside. In one novel by this author "A Rose for Emily," the cook Dilsey holds together a family whose members include a drowned Harvard student, the sexually loose Caddy and the mentally challenged Benjy. For 10 points, name this author who told of the Compsons in The Sound and the Fury.
William Faulkner
7

101528-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

101535-)
This novel's protagonist is invited by Omar to join a hunting trip, during which he pulls the heart out of a bobcat. Several scenes in this novel take place in a house in the Blue Ridge Mountains, where the protagonist meets Grace Long and Susan Byrd. A character in this novel claims to have found his wife in bed, naked, sucking her ether-soaked dead father Dr. Foster's fingers. Hospital Tommy and Railroad Tommy are part of a group of (*) revenge killers called the Seven Days in this novel, as is Henry Porter, who hooks up with the protagonist's sister Corinthians. Upon returning to Shalimar, the bellybutton-less Pilate is shot by Guitar Bains in this novel's final chapter, which ends with the protagonist mid-leap, possibly having learned to fly. For 10 points, name this Toni Morrison novel about Milkman Dead, which has a biblical title.
Song of Solomon 
7

101549-)
This poet claimed that "birth was a disease and Christopher and I invented the cure" in "O Ye Tongues", a sequence of poems based on Christopher Smart's "Jubilate Agno". The line "I have gone out, a possessed witch" opens a poem by this author whose three stanzas end with the claim "I have been" the title thing. This student of W.D. Snodgrass wrote a poem which asks her daughter "how do you grow?" and tells her "you are too many to eat", while the lines "Whether you are pretty or not, I outlive you, bend down my strange face to yours and forgive you" conclude a poem addressed to her father. This poet wrote (*) "Her Kind", "Little Girl, My String Bean, My Lovely Woman", and "All My Pretty Ones". For 10 points, name this author of To Bedlam and Part Way Back and The Awful Rowing Toward God, who, like her friend Sylvia Plath, was a suicidal female Confessional poet.
Anne Sexton 
7

101588-)
One character in this play finds a nipple on a gas pipe that is attached to a fuse box. While at Frank's Chop House, another character meets two women named Miss Forsythe and Letta. In another scene, the title figure orders his wife to throw away a stocking she knits, for it reminds him of his affair with "The Woman" in Boston. Shortly after that affair, his eldest son fails math and loses his football scholarship. Howard Wagner fires the title character of this work, which ends a car crash designed to afford Linda, Biff and Happy some much-needed insurance money. For 10 points, name this work about the end of Willy Loman, a play by Arthur Miller.
Death of a Salesman
7

101598-)
This story opens with four lines from James Thomson's poem "The Castle of Indolence," and the protagonist recalls how Major Andre was captured as he passes Wiley Swamp on his horse Gunpowder. That character in this story is a teacher who tells stories as he stays with the families of his pupils. This story is set in a settlement on the Tappan Zee among Dutch settlers. The residents of this story's setting of Tarrytown fear a Hessian soldier. It climaxes after a smashed pumpkin is found at the roadside, and then Brom Bones marries Katrina Van Tassel as Ichabod Crane is never seen again. For 10 points, name this Washington Irving story that features the Headless Horseman.
"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"
7

101618-)
This author attacked her Calvinist heritage in "Views of Divine Government" which is part of a larger work that describes Mary Scudder's impact on Reverend Samuel Hopkins' psyche. Another novel by this author of The Minister's Wooing was critiqued by William Gilmore Simms's The Sword and the Distaff. The title character of that novel worked for Arthur Shelby before he worked for Augustine St. Clare. That novel by this author describes how George and Eliza elope to Canada than to Liberia. For 10 points, name this "little woman who wrote the book that started the Great War," the author of Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Harriet Beecher Stowe
7

101639-)
One of this author's plays calls for a septet of mannequins, including a bride and a widow who face each other "as if in violent argument". The protagonist of that play by this man hears a rumor about her husband having had an affair with Estelle Hohengarten and is put off when a condom falls from a man's pocket. In another play by this man, the nicknames "Sister Woman" and "Brother Man" are used for a pair of characters whose children are referred to as (*) "no-neck monsters". In one of his plays, Alvaro Mangiacavallo begins a relationship with the Sicilian woman Serafina after revealing a copy of the title entity on his chest. In another, a character who drinks until he hears a "click" and complains about "mendacity" has his relationship with Skipper questioned by both Big Daddy Pollitt and his own wife Maggie. For 10 points, name this author of The Rose Tattoo and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III] 
7

101653-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

101667-)
A character in this novel finds himself disgusted by a biography of the "trance-lecturer" Ada T. P. Foat, shortly before departing for a tour that includes a visit to the Civil War Memorial Hall. Its heroine's mother is embarrassed by the poor public speaking skills of her husband, a mesmeric healer named Selah. Two of this novel's main characters turn down proposals from Adeline (*) Luna and Matthias Pardon, and first encounter each other at a party held by Miss Birdseye. A planned speech at the Music Hall is abandoned at the climax of this novel, when Verena Tarrant chooses to elope with Basil Ransom, much to the disappointment of the feminist Olive Chancellor. For 10 points, name this Henry James novel set in a New England city.
The Bostoanians 
7

101674-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

101691-)
This poet asserted that "Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again" in his poem "The Battle-field". He is referred to as a "smooth, silent iceberg" who "stands in supreme ice-olation" in Lowell's A Fable for Critics. This author expressed a wish that "Hope, blossoming within my heart, may look to heaven as I depart" in a poem addressed to a "blossom bright with autumn dew". He tells the addressee of another poem "Thou'rt gone, the abyss of heaven / Hath swallowed up thy form" and asks that figure "dost thou pursue / Thy (*) solitary way?" This author of "To the Fringed Gentian" is most famous for a poem that describes "hills / Rock-ribbed and ancient as the sun" and advises the reader to "go not like the quarry-slave at night" when it comes time to join the "innumerable caravan" and "mix forever with the elements". For 10 points, name this American poet of "To a Waterfowl" and "Thanatopsis".
William Cullen Bryant 
7

101706-)
A character in this novel becomes a truck-driver who fears little outside of traffic jam-shattering fire engines.This novel shares a setting with its author's later novel George's Mother. Its main character is repeatedly accused of having "gone to deh devil" by a character who ends the novel by screaming "I'll forgive her!" at her funeral. This novel opens on a (*) street fight between the young inhabitants of Devil's Row and Rum Alley. Mary and Jimmie, the title character's mother and brother, kick her out of their tenement, and Nellie seduces her boyfriend Pete away from her, causing her to eventually resort to prostitution. For 10 points, name this tragic novella by Stephen Crane, titled for a "girl of the streets".
Maggie: A Girl of the Streets 
7

101723-)
This character watches the "turf event of the season" at the Jockey Club on an invitation from Mrs. Highcamp and angers her father by refusing to attend her sister Janet's wedding. She becomes nostalgic by singing the song "Ah! si tu savais" while painting and, for a time, moves off of Esplanade Street and into a small bungalow. After revealing that she'd skipped out on her Tuesday reception day, this character tears up a handkerchief, smashes a vase, and stamps on her (*) wedding ring. She befriends a Chopin-playing pianist named Mademoiselle Reisz, who is more free-spirited than Adele Ratignolle. This character chafes in her marriage with LÃ©once, prompting her to have an affair with Alcee Arobin and pine for Robert Lebrun, whose departure causes her to despair and drown herself. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Kate Chopin's The Awakening.
Edna Pontellier [or Edna Pontellier]
7

101736-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

101739-)
With Henry Robinson, this author analyzed The Skin of our Teeth as an appropriation from Finnegan's Wake, from which he borrowed a name for one of his concepts. This author used the phrase "Master of Two Worlds" to describe transcendental figures like Gautama and Jesus. This author borrowed a term from Adolf Bastian to describe ethnic variations called "folk ideas", which are contrasted with universal "elementary ideas." A diagram of a (*) circle cut into uneven semicircles represents this author's idea of the cycle of "separation - initiation - return" that begins with the "call to adventure." This author used the word "monomyth" to describe a cross-cultural story pattern exemplified by characters like Cu Chulainn and Perseus. For 10 points, name this author of The Masks of God and The Hero With a Thousand Faces.
Joseph Campbell
7

101753-)
This periodical first published a story in which Dugal McAdoo hires a witch to prevent slaves from eating his scuppernongs. An influential article written for this publication averred that "amid the vast range of human powers and properties, the fact of sex is but one item". That article, "Ought Women to Learn the Alphabet?", was written for this publication by Thomas Wentworth Higginson, whose "Letter to a Young Contributor" in this magazine inspired (*) Emily Dickinson to contact him. This magazine published the early stories of Charles Chesnutt, as well as Julia Ward Howe's "Battle Hymn of the Republic". Its longtime editors have included William Dean Howells and one of its co-founders, James Russell Lowell. For 10 points, name this literary magazine founded in 1857 in Boston and named for a nearby body of water.
The Atlantic Monthly 
7

101772-)
One of these locations is the site of a conversation about the disappearance of Dimitrios Cotsakis, an Elvis expert. The Democratic Party is described as "the Snopes family married to Henry James" in a Norman Mailer article about the rise of JFK titled for Superman's arrival in one of these places. A "dull unlocatable roar" is characteristic of these locations, which Murray Siskind compares to the Tibetan conception of reincarnation and death in the way they "spiritually recharge" visitors, in Don (*) DeLillo's White Noise. In poem set in one of these places, the speaker asks "Will we walk all night through solitary streets?" and remarks on the "peaches and penumbras" he spots while encountering Garcia Lorca and Walt Whitman. For 10 points, identify these places, the setting of both an Allen Ginsberg poem about one "in California" and of the John Updike story "A&amp;P".
supermarkets [accept "Superman Comes to the Supermarket" or "A Supermarket in California"; also accept equivalents like "grocery stores"; prompt on "stores" or equivalents] 
7

101779-)
This poem claims that "the sea is a form of ridicule" and that "the iceberg settings satirize / The demon that cannot be himself". It includes the image of an "old fantoche" observing the "banal suburb" of Oxidia and an expression of the desire "that I may reduce the monster to / Myself, and then may be myself". Its final section says that we will remember "the moments that we choose to play / The imagined pine, the imagined jay". This poem's speaker asks "What is there in life except one's (*) ideas?", imagines himself as "a shadow hunched" above the title object, and laments that he "cannot bring a world quite round" . In the first of this poem's 33 sections, the title "shearsman of sorts" is asked to play a tune "of things exactly as they are". For 10 points, name this Picasso-inspired Wallace Stevens poem about a musician.
The Man With the Blue Guitar
7

101803-)
In the Paris Review interview with this author, he describes how Picasso's death resulted in Alexander Calder illustrating an edition of his novel The Sacrilege of Alan Kent. One of this man's novels features a subplot in which Will Thompson is shot while attempting to reopen a mill, while another was adapted by Jack Kirkland into a play that ran for eight years on Broadway. In novel by this man, Pluto Swint suggests kidnapping an albino in order to aid the protagonist's obsessive search for (*) gold on his land. Another novel by this man includes a noseless preacher named Bessie who marries the half-wit Dude, whose sisters are the hare-lipped Ellie May and Lov Bensey's twelve-year-old wife Pearl. For 10 points, name this husband of Margaret Bourke-White who wrote about Ty Ty Walden and the family of Jeeter Lester in, respectively, God's Little Acre and Tobacco Road.
Erskine Preston Caldwell
7

101821-)
One work by this poet begins "In the cold, cold parlor," and describes a stuffed loon, shot by Uncle Arthur, who "took his own counsel / on his white, frozen lake / the marble-topped table" of the title event. In another poem, the narrator admires the "shapes like full-blown roses / stained and lost through age" displaying on an object whose "brown skin hung in strips / like ancient wallpaper." This author wrote the poem "First Death in Nova Scotia" while living in Brazil, where she carried on a tempestuous relationship with her (*) lover Lota de Mercedo Soares. Robert Lowell's "Skunk Hour" was dedicated to this woman, who described returning her catch after "everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow" in one poem and asserted that "the art of losing isn't hard to master" in another. For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Fish" who wrote the villanelle "One Art."
Elizabeth Bishop
7

101856-)
James Wood critiqued this man's onomatopoetic image of a boat going "SMACK from swell SMACK to swell SMACK to swell SMACK," and his "identically voiced characters," reviewing a novel by this man about forgeries in the Korolyov Museum of Art exposed by police officer Nestor Camacho. He also created Adam Gellin, a news editor who tutors basketball star Jojo Johannsen and comforts a girl from Appalachia after she loses her virginity. This author, who set Back to Blood in (*) Miami, argued for a new American realism in "Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast," and used Duke as the basis for his DuPont University in I Am Charlotte Simmons. In his first novel, a tire thrown by Wall Street banker Sherman McCoy incites racial tensions in New York. For 10 points, name this author who adapted New Journalism techniques in his novel Bonfire of the Vanities.
Tom Wolfe [or Thomas Kennerly Wolfe; do not accept or prompt on "Thomas Wolfe" by itself; accept Thomas K. Wolfe but not "Thomas Clayton Wolfe" or "Thomas C. Wolfe"] 
7

101861-)
The speaker of a poem by this author says "A man was starving in Capri; He moved his eyes and looked at me" and ends the poem by warning "he whose soul is flat" that "sky / will cave in on him by and by." This poet wrote of a time "when first the shaft into his vision shone / Of light anatomized!" in a poem that describes how "heroes seek release / From dusty bondage into luminous air". This author of the sonnet (*) "Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare" wrote of rain washing away her grave in a poem that begins "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood". In another of her poems, a mother uses a musical instrument with a woman's head to make clothes for her child. For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Ballad of the Harp Weaver" and "Renascence", as well as the collection A Few Figs from Thistles.
Edna St. Vincent Millay
7

101867-)
In this novel, questions like "Do ants get headaches?" are asked by schoolchildren in the care of Horrox, a preacher who believes in an ordered "ladder" of the races and sermonizes in favor of tobacco. Another character feels a "chain of firecrackers" explode in his head when he has a stroke. Three prophecies called "augurins" affect a sixteen-year-old shepherd in this novel, who possesses an egg-like video playback device called an (*) orison. A ship called the Prophetess holds the fugitive slave Autua and the steadily-poisoned journal writer Adam Ewing in this novel, whose other settings include the HYDRA nuclear reactor investigated by Luisa Rey and a restaurant staffed by "fabricants" such as Sonmi-451 in a dystopic future Korea. For 10 points, name this novel whose six nested narratives stretch from 1850 to a post-apocalyptic far future, a 2004 novel by David Mitchell.
Cloud Atlas 
7

101875-)
A character in this story apparently learned that American cars have steering wheels on the left side from the TV show Dallas. While contemplating a procession of topless women, a character in this story suddenly realizes that he has never seen his own wife fully naked. Another character in this story wears a shirt with a calico applique in the shape of a strawberry and continually eats (*) puffed rice. That character in this story reveals a secret she'd kept for eight years, regarding the brief affair that led to the birth of her second son, during a trip to the Sun Temple at Konarak. At its end, Mrs. Das's son Bobby is rescued from an attacking gang of monkeys by Mr. Kapasi, a tour guide who also works in a doctor's office in the title occupation. For 10 points, name this title story of the first book by Jhumpa Lahiri.
Interpreter of Maladies"
7

101881-)
A character in this novel who is obsessed with her massaging exercise board tries to give a makeover to the aged Miss Trixie. Another character suspects the police of being communists, especially a police officer who is forced to hide in a bathroom stall wearing ridiculous outfits until he arrests someone. In this novel, Lana Lee runs a bar and tries to start a strip club act where Darlene is undressed by her pet parrot. This novel was published after its author's mother badgered (*) Walker Percy into reading it. Its protagonist corresponds with Myrna Minkoff, adores the Consolation of Philosophy, fails to lead a revolution at the Levy Pants Factory, complains about his "valve," and sells hot dogs, many of which he eats. For 10 points, name this book about Ignatius J. Reilly's misadventures in New Orleans, written by John Kennedy Toole. 
A Confederacy of Dunces
7

101905-)
In one work by this author, a bible salesman visits the Hopewells and proceeds to deceive the disabled Hulga by running off with her prosthetic leg. This author of "Good Country People" detailed a bus trip in which Julian takes his racist mother to their local Y. In another story by this writer, whose title is taken from a Red Sammy quote, Bailey takes his family on a trip to Florida against his grandmother's wishes, where they encounter The Misfit. Name this Southern author of Everything That Rises Must Converge and A Good Man Is Hard to Find.
Flannery O'Connor
3

101918-)
This character briefly worked as a linotypist, and he saved his granddaughter Judy from drowning after their boat capsized. He lived for a time with Jill and her convict boyfriend Skeeter, and he also ran a Toyota dealership. Earlier, this character ran away from his wife Janice, whom he later blamed for the death of his infant daughter Rebecca. He engaged in an affair with his daughter-in-law Pru in the last novel he appeared in, and he was Remembered in a novel after that. Name this former basketball player, the title character of five novels by John Updike.
Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom [accept any underlined name]
3

101921-)
In this work, a merchant from Smyrna invites the narrator to have lunch at the Cannon Street Hotel. This poem's first stanza claims "Winter kept us warm, covering Earth in forgetful snow." This poem concludes with words meaning 'give, sympathize, control' taken from one of the Upanishads [oo-PAH-nee-shahds]. The epigraph to this work comes from Pretronius's Satyricon and tells of the Cumaean [KYOO-may-UN] Sibyl's wish for death. This poem's final section, "What the Thunder Said", ends with the mantra "Shantih shantih shantih", while this work opens by claiming "April is the cruellest month." Name this poem by T.S. Eliot.
"The Waste Land"
3

101940-)
One character in this work plays a recording of his son reciting all the state capitals to the main character. The main character in this work has a flashback in the bathroom of Frank's Chop House until he is shaken by the waiter, Stanley. In this play, the protagonist's son struggles to focus on his math class, which he eventually flunks. That son, who later steals a fountain pen from a former employer after failing to promote Happy's "Florida idea," is Biff. This play's protagonist gets fired from the title job, and he commits suicide by crashing his car. Name this Arthur Miller play about Willy Loman.
Death of a Salesman
3

101951-)
One character in this novel proposes a game of "Strip Botticelli", leading the protagonist to put on several clothes. During that incident, members of The Paranoids barge in and play a serenade outside the hotel room of the main character and her lawyer Metzger. The protagonist of this novel is fascinated with the symbol of a muted horn and watches a play called The Courier's Tragedy. The central character travels to San Narciso to execute the will of Pierce Inverarity and becomes obsessed with the secret "Tristero" organization. Name this novel about Oedipa Maas written by Thomas Pynchon.
The Crying of Lot 49
3

101962-)
In this novel, Mrs. McKee boasts that her husband has photographed her 127 times at a party where the protagonist admits to getting drunk for the second time in his life. The title character of this novel looks up to Dan Cody and supposedly attended Oxford for a while. His love interest runs over Myrtle Wilson while driving a yellow car. The narrator of this novel is attracted to Jordan Baker, while his cousin Daisy Buchanan is attracted to a man who lives in West Egg on Long Island and throws very lavish parties. Name this novel set in the 1920's by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Great Gatsby
3

101984-)
The protagonist of this work is described as "undefeated, inscrutable to the last", and is laughed at for saying "puppy biscuit." That protagonist of this story claims to have been able to shoot Gregory Fitzhurst though he is wearing his right hand in a sling. A "pocketaÂ–pocketaÂ–pocketa" noise is made by three machines in this work. This short story's protagonist appears as a surgeon, a pilot, and a defendant. This story is set in Waterbury, where the protagonist is driving with his wife, and it ends with the protagonist facing a firing squad. Name this James Thurber story about a daydreaming title character.
"The Secret Life of Walter Mitty"
3

101987-)
The second part of this poem describes a figure "whose love is endless oil and stone" and "whose name is the Mind!". The third section of this poem tells of a place "where the faculties of the skull no longer admit the worms of the senses". This poem was judged to be not obscene when its publisher, Lawrence Ferlinghetti, was put on trial. "Mohammedan angels staggering on tenement roofs" appear in this poem dedicated to Columbia Psychiatric Institute patient Carl Solomon, whom the poet repeatedly tells "I'm with you in Rockland." Name this poem that describes Moloch, and opens "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness", written by Allen Ginsberg.
"Howl"
3

102007-)
In one work by this author, a monk is killed by an Italian named Donatello, who resembles a Praxiteles [praak-SIH-tuh-leez] statue. In a story by this author, Aylmer obsesses about a defect on Georgiana's face. In another work, a deed to ancient Indian lands is discovered after Phoebe's lover Holgrave presses a spring in a portrait of Colonel Pyncheon hanging in the title house. This author of The Marble Faun and "The Birth-Mark" also wrote about Reverend John Wilson questioning Roger Chillingworth's wife Hester Prynne after she commits adultery. Name this writer of The House of the Seven Gables and The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne [or Nathaniel Hathorne]
3

102010-)
One work by this poet describes looking at Mortenson's pasture two years after a fire and seeing blueberries. Another work by this poet describes the location of a broken drinking goblet by "a town that is no more a town". This poet also wrote "The land was ours before we were the land's." In another poem by this poet, a horse "gives his harness bells a shake" when the narrator stops in a place between a frozen lake and the woods not near a farmhouse. Name this poet of "Directive" and "The Gift Outright" who wrote about somebody with "promises to keep" and "miles to go before" he sleeps in "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening".
Robert (Lee) Frost
3

102029-)
One character created by this author was offered debt relief if he did not release his book Some Americans: The Sense of Being in the USA and made a lot of money from his play Von Trenck. In another novel by this author, the title characterÂ—who plans to shoot Valentine and Madeleine and gain custody of his daughter JuneÂ—writes lots of letters. Another novel by this author depicts a wealthy American who becomes a respected leader of the Wairiri tribe in Africa. This writer also wrote about a Chicagoan who worked for Einhorn. Name this author of Humboldt's Gift, Henderson, the Rain King, Herzog, and The Adventures of Augie March.
Saul Bellow
3

102051-)
In a novel by this man, a banker faces a mob after discovering that he is partly of African-American descent. In addition to writing Kingsblood Royal, this author wrote about an engineer who sells the Revelation Automobile Company and a college football star who falls in love with evangelist Sharon Falconer after being ordained as a priest. This author of Dodsworth and Elmer Gantry created the fictional town of Zenith, where May Arnold has an affair with Paul Riesling, and Tanis Judique has an affair with a real estate broker. Name this author of Babbitt.
(Harry) Sinclair Lewis
3

102073-)
In one scene in this novel, the protagonist holds onto a cow's tail in order to escape a flood. One character in this work buys 200 acres of land in a town that originally only contained 50 acres. That character, Jody, later forbids his wife from giving a speech at the opening of his store and later beats her for mis-cutting a piece of tobacco. Phoeby Watson welcomes the protagonist of this work when she returns to Eatonville from the Everglades after shooting her rabies-afflicted husband, Tea Cake. Identify this novel about the thriceÂ–married Janie Crawford, a work of Zora Neale Hurston.
Their Eyes Were Watching God
3

102095-)
A character in this play sarcastically claims to be a "tsar of the underworld" in a speech in which he callsanother character a "babbling old witch." This play features two scenes in which a woman sellssubscriptions to The Companion over the phone. It is revealed that a character in this play has beenvisiting the penguins at the zoo instead of going to Rubicam's Business College. In the last scene, thisplay's protagonist is told to "blow the candles out" by the narrator, her brother Tom. That protagonist ofthis play was nicknamed "Blue Roses" by a "gentleman caller" named Jim O'Connor. For 10 points,name this Tennessee Williams play titled for Laura Wingfield's collection of statuettes.
The Glass Menagerie
6

102117-)
In this work, Dolphus Raymond pretends to be drunk in order to explain living with his black mistress. A character in this book loses his pants while escaping from a house but later returns to find the pants mended and waiting for him. Another character, who is from Meridian, Mississippi, stays with his Aunt Rachel when he is in Maycomb, Alabama. In this novel, Bob Ewell accuses Tom Robinson, a black man, of raping his daughter. Boo Radley is a source of curiosity to Jem and Scout, the children of Atticus Finch, in what novel by Harper Lee?
To Kill a Mockingbird
3

102120-)
In one poem, this author describes the title concept as a "vulture, whose wings are dull realities". Another of his poems tells of the "Naiad airs" that brought the narrator "To the glory that was Greece / and the grandeur that was Rome." This writer of "Sonnet Â– To Science" described a love "stronger by far than the love / Of those who were older than we" in a poem in which the title character lives "in a kingdom by the sea". This poet of "To Helen" described a "rapping" at his "chamber door" in a work about a bird that says "Nevermore". Name this poet of "Annabel Lee" and "The Raven".
Edgar Allan Poe
3

102128-)
A character in this work throws a prom party, but later abandons the party to talk about fascism with Harry Minowitz. A black doctor in this work has three sons: Hamilton, Karl Marx, and Willie, though he is closest with his daughter Portia. Bubber accidentally shoots Baby Wilson in this work. In this novel, Antonopoulos' brother forces him to move to a sanatorium, which deeply saddens another deaf character, who later commits suicide. In this novel, Biff Brannon runs a cafe which Mick Kelly, Jake Blount and Joseph Singer all frequent. Name this novel by Carson McCullers.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
3

102139-)
In one of this author's works, the human-sized lizards Leslie and Sarah spy on the conversation of the elderly couple Charlie and Nancy. In another of his works, the peculiar couple Harry and Edna suddenly move into the house of their friends Agnes and Tobias. This author of Seascape and A Delicate Balance also wrote about Jerry, who accosts Peter at a bench in Central Park. In another play by this writer, associate history professor George and his wife Martha entertain the young couple Nick and Honey at their home. Name this playwright of Zoo Story and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee
3

102142-)
A work by this poet describes how the title object "took dominion everywhere" and "did not give of bird or bush". Another of his poems tells how one must "have been cold a long time / To behold the junipers shagged with ice". In another work, this poet does "not know which to prefer, / The beauty of inflections / or the beauty of innuendos". His poem "The Snow Man" is included in a collection whose two verses begin "Take from the dresser of deal" and "Call the roller of big cigars." Name this poet whose collection Harmonium includes "Anecdote of the Jar", "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird", and "The Emperor of Ice-Cream".
Wallace Stevens
3

102183-)
One of this character's most prized possessions is a baseball mitt with poems written all over it. This character is attacked by the pimp Maurice because he only pays five dollars for his time with the prostitute Sunny. This character is irritated when his former neighbor Jane Gallagher goes on a date with Stradlater. His younger brother Allie died of leukemia, and his older brother D.B. is a Hollywood screenwriter. This character runs away from Pencey Prep to New York City, and he confides strongly in his little sister Phoebe. Name this "phony"-hating protagonist of J.D Salinger's Catcher in the Rye.
Holden Caulfield [accept either]
3

102186-)
This writer described a "look I shall never forget" from the face of a deceased son and comrade in "Vigil Strange I Kept on the Field". The narrator of one of his short poems tells of becoming "tired and sick" before leaving a lecture; that poem is "When I Heard the Learned Astronomer". One of his long poems states "What I assume you shall assume" and "I am large, I contain multitudes." This poet wrote, "Our fearful trip is done" in one of his works remembering Abraham Lincoln, entitled "O Captain! My Captain!". Name this poet of "Song of Myself", whose works were collected in Leaves of Grass.
Walt(er) Whitman
3

102205-)
In a novel by this author, David tries to overcome his homosexuality before finally settling down with the title Italian bartender. In one of this author's short stories, the title character strives to become a jazz pianist despite the disapproval of his older brother. This author of Giovanni's Room and "Sonny's Blues" included the essay "Down at the Cross", describing his experiences with the Nation of Islam, in The Fire Next Time. Another novel by this author is about an abusive deacon named Gabriel raising fourteen-year-old John Grimes. Name this author from Harlem who wrote Go Tell It on the Mountain.
James Baldwin
3

102217-)
A novella by this author sees characters who use the word "I" and "Myself" executed and revolves around the relationship between Equality and Unity. In another work, the enigmatic Dominique Francon marries Peter Keating, the rival of a character who is expelled from architecture school for refusing to emulate old, classical designs. This author also wrote a novel in which the mysterious phrase "Who is John Galt?" is repeated, that novel is about Dagny Taggart. Identify this Russian-American author, who created Howard Roark in The Fountainhead and wrote Atlas Shrugged.
Ayn Rand [or Alisa Zinovyevna Rosenbaum]
3

102227-)
In one story by this man, an American in Spain is trying to convince his girlfriend Jig to have an operation. In another story by this man, Robert Wilson sleeps with Margot after her husband is unable to shoot a lion. This author of "Hills Like White Elephants" and "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber" wrote about Brett Ashley, who is engaged to Mike Campbell but is also loved by Pedro Romero, Robert Cohn and Jake Barnes. In another work, this author wrote about Catherine Barkley and Frederic Henry during World War One. Name this author of The Sun Also Rises and A Farewell to Arms.
Ernest (Miller) Hemingway
3

102249-)
One character in this work misses her meeting with the DAR after stopping to check on her daughter's progress at typing school. Another character in this play earns the nickname "Shakespeare" for his avid love of literature. That character, Tom, goes to the movies every night, much to his mother's dismay. In this play, the central family awaits the arrival of Jim O'Connor, a potential suitor for a disabled girl who is concerned about the title objects. Name this play in which Amanda is worried about the well-being of her daughter Laura Wingfield, a work by Tennessee Williams.
The Glass Menagerie
3

102272-)
A poem by this man references "Ode on a Grecian Urn" with "Libation and sacrifice" before going on to talk of an "Iron-hearted man-slaying" person "who would not live long". Another of his poems says how the Old Masters "never forget / That even the dreadful martyrdom must run its course." This poet of "The Shield of Achilles" wrote a poem set "in one of the dives / On Fifty-Second Street" where the narrator thinks of the "darkened lands of the earth" where "the unmentionable odour of death" lingers. Name this author of "The Age of Anxiety", "September 1, 1939", and "MusÃ©e des Beaux Arts" [moo-zay day boh-zart].
W(ystan) H(ugh) Auden
3

102289-)
In this novel, Miss Henderson, a factory overseer, secretly runs a prostitution ring. One character in this book falls for the violinist Timoszius but is unable to marry him after she is fired from her job. The protagonist of this novel meets Jack Duane in jail and becomes part of Mike Scully's gang. TetaÂ–Elzbieta's step-daughter Ona dies during childbirth in this novel. In this book, Jurgis Rudkus moves to Packingtown from Lithuania and works at various factories with terrible conditions. Name this muckraking novel that exposed Chicago's meatpacking industry, a work of Upton Sinclair.
The Jungle
3

102319-)
This author wrote about Cross Damon's murder of Gilbert Blount in his novel The Outsider. His story "The Man Who Was Almost a Man," appears in the collection Uncle Tom's Children. In an autobiographical novel, this author recalls such instances as killing a cat and accidentally burning down his family's Mississippi home. In his most famous work, Bigger Thomas frames the communist Jan Erlone for the murder of Mary Dalton after writing a fake ransom note. Name this author of Black Boy and Native Son.
Richard Wright
3

102339-)
One character in this novel becomes the vice shah of Oran and caliph of Baghdad. In this novel, Generals Peckem and Dreedle differ on what formations should be employed. Set primarily on the island of Pianosa [pee-ah-NOE-sah], this focuses on the 256th squadron, which includes petty officer Milo Minderbinder and pilot John Yossarian. Name this novel by Joseph Heller whose name is synonymous with an impossible situation.
Catch-22
3

102346-)
Upon returning home, this character is recognized by Peter Vanderdonk. His wife died while berating a New England peddler, according to his daughter Judith. After growing a beard, this character regaled children with tales of playing ninepins with the spirits of Hendrick Hudson. Name this Washington Irving character who missed the American Revolution because he fell asleep for 20 years.
Rip van Winkle
3

102354-)
The man in charge of this event had to be sworn in by the postmaster. The man who ran this also ran the local square dances, Halloween program, and teen club. In the build-up to this event, Bobby Martin set an example for Bobby and Harry Jones, who gathered large piles of stones. In years past, chips of wood were used for this, but Mr. Summers and Mr. Graves used paper slips instead. Name this title event in which Tessie Hutchinson got stoned by the people of her village in a short story written by Shirley Jackson.
The Lottery
3

102365-)
One character in this play danced to the Varsouviana [var-SOE-vee-a-nah] before confronting her husband about an affair. That woman later escaped an attack by falsely claiming the building was on fire. A later assault in this play was set against jazz music from a neighboring bar.  The victim was an alcoholic from Laurel, Mississippi who came to visit her sister Stella in New Orleans. Name this drama featuring Stanley Kowalski and Blanche DuBois, written by Tennessee Williams.
A Streetcar Named Desire
3

102387-)
This poet wrote of a rock that "cries out to us, clearly, forcefully" as well as "the Swede, the German, the Scot...praying for a dream." In one memoir, she wrote of performing in a German production of The Blacks: A Clown Show. She also wrote of participating in a Ghanaian march coinciding with the March on Washington in All God's Children Need Traveling Shoes. Name this African-American woman from Stamps, Arkansas who wrote the poem "On the Pulse of Morning" and the autobiography I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Maya Angelou
3

102396-)
This author wrote of an apparition of a man in a brown suit wearing slippers that curl up; the observer became convinced it was the Devil. In one novel, this author wrote of the star of Daddy's Girl becoming romantically involved with a clinical psychologist who married Nicole Warren. This author of Tender is the Night and This Side of Paradise also wrote a novel narrated by Nick Carraway. Name this author of The Great Gatsby.
Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald
3

102408-)
This poet wrote of his soul standing "surrounded, in measureless oceans of space" while observing a quiet creature. In another poem, this man wrote of "the lady of this teeming and turbulent city, sleepless amid her ships." The author of "A Noiseless Patient Spider" and "Drum-Taps," his poems written in honor of Abraham Lincoln include "O Captain! My Captain!" and "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd." Name this author of the poetry collection Leaves of Grass.
Walter Whitman, Jr.
3

102428-)
This author wrote about a reporter from the Defender who compared the people at Jesus' crucifixion to people in Little Rock. She wrote of a woman who gave up dreams of living in New York to marry a man who coveted entry into the Foxy Cats Club, Paul Phillips. One of her poems described seven pool players at the Golden Shovel who "sing sin" and "thin gin." Name this author of the poetry collection Annie Allen and the poem "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks
3

102433-)
In "Liar!" one of these was given telepathy. In the story "Runaround," one of these is seen circling a pool of Selenium. In "Reason," Powell and Donovan develop one that founds a religion based on its ability to convert a beam of energy from the sun. These are not to harm a human being according to their first law. Name these objects for which three laws were developed by Isaac Asimov.
robots
3

102446-)
One character in this novel, who invites people to visit him in Wyoming, is Wild Bob. After returning from war, this novel's protagonist finishes optometry school before having two children, one of which becomes a Green Beret [buh-RAY]. After a plane crash in Vermont, the protagonist of this novel loses his wife before having brain surgery. The protagonist of this novel describes his travels through time, including time spent in a zoo on Tralfamadore [tral-FA-muh-dor]. Name this novel set against the backdrop of the firebombing of Dresden, written by Kurt Vonnegut.
Slaughterhouse-Five, or, The Children's Crusade: A Duty Dance with Death
3

102457-)
In describing spring, this poet wrote of "the wanton frisking kid, and soft fleeced lambs." In one poem, she describes some poems as "ill-formed offspring." She wrote of love worth "more than whole mines of gold" in "To My Dear and Loving Husband," and she also wrote verses about the burning of her house. Name this colonial writer whose poems were published in the collection The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet
3

102474-)
Near the end of this novel, it is revealed that the descendants of Joy, Nellie, and Aranea stay with the protagonist. In this novel, Templeton has to be bribed with food in order to help. Most of its action takes place on the farm of Mr. Zuckerman, the uncle of Fern Arable. Name this E.B. White novel in which the pig Wilbur befriends the title spider.
Charlotte's Web
3

102485-)
This playwright wrote of the gardener Seth boarding up the Mannon home with Lavinia in it. In another play, he wrote of the captain of the coal barge Simeon Winthrop and his suspicion of Mat Burke. In addition to writing Mourning Becomes Electra and Anna Christie, this playwright wrote A Moon for the Misbegotten, about an alcoholic actor named James Tyrone. Name this playwright who also included Tyrone in Long Day's Journey into Night.
Eugene Gladstone O'Neill
3

102504-)
In one of this author's novels, Leach and Johnson attempt a mutiny aboard the Ghost; in that work,Maud Brewster is courted by Humphrey van Weyden and a man whose brother is named "Death". Inanother of his works, the protagonist is kidnapped by Judge Miller's gardener and quickly learns the"law of the club." In that novel by this author, three fools die while crossing a poorly-frozen river, thoughthe protagonist refuses to accompany them and is rescued by John Thornton. This author wrote aboutWolf Larsen in The Sea-Wolf and penned a novel whose protagonist defeats Spitz in a fight, gaining therespect of his pack. For 10 points, name this author, who wrote of the sled dog Buck in his novel TheCall of the Wild.
Jack London [or John Griffith London; or John Griffith Chaney]
6

102519-)
In a story by this author, the imaginary boy Jimmy Jimmerino is run over by a car. That story by himfeatures Eloise, who remembers the nickname her fiancÃ©e Walt gave her ankle. In a story by this author,the main character is accused of looking at a woman's feet in a hotel elevator and letting a child namedSharon sit next to him while he played piano. In that story by this author, Sybil searches for the titlegreedy animals while on the beach with Seymour. He also wrote a novel in which the protagonist loseshis the fencing team's foils and wonders where the ducks in Central Park go in the winter. For 10 points,name this author of "Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut," "A Perfect Day for Bananafish," and Catcher in theRye.
J. D. Salinger [or Jerome David Salinger]
6

102539-)
This character recalls throwing money at starving children in Barcelona during a "talking jag" in one scene. He plans to buy a woman and "hump her from hell to breakfast." This man is under the mistaken assumption he has a "spastic colon" and appears in a play in which his birthday party is held shortly after his return from the Ochsner Clinic. With his son, he discusses the homosexual attraction to Skipper. Unbeknownst to this man, he is dying of cancer, a fact his greedy family is concealing from him. This man is the father of Gooper and the former football star and husband of Maggie, Brick. For 10 points, name this wealthy cotton planter, the patriarch of the Pollitt family in Tennessee Williams' play Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
Big Daddy Pollitt [prompt on Pollitt]
7

102540-)
This author's characters include the wheelchair-bound Uncle Julian, who writes a book in an estate where silver dollars are planted by the creek and blackberries laced with arsenic killed half of Constance and Merricat Blackwood's family. In another of this author's novels, the possibly- lesbian artist Theodora and Luke Sanderson explore a place built by Hugh Crain, and a car crash kills the narrator, Eleanor Vance. This author of We Have Always Lived in the Castle included Old Man Warner in a story in which a black box is placed on a stool on June 27th. For 10 points, name this author of The Haunting of Hill House, who described Tessie Hutchinson's stoning in the twist ending to "The Lottery."
Shirley Jackson
7

102549-)
A story by this author opens with a plane landing in a cornfield and centers on Francis Weed's love for a babysitter. Another of his stories is set on the sort of midsummer day when everyone says, "I drank too much." In a story by this author, a secretary forces her former boss to put his face in the dirt after pulling a gun on him on the train. This author created the town of Shady Hill, and he wrote a story in which Irene Wescott learns her neighbors are secretly miserable by listening to them with the title device. Another of his stories ends with a man reaching his locked and empty house after traveling home on the "Lucinda River." For 10 points, name this author of "The Enormous Radio" who wrote about Neddy Merrill in "The Swimmer."
John Cheever
7

102556-)
This woman's love affairs in a cornfield are described by the line "How loose the silk. How fine and loose and free." A picture of this woman in a newspaper draws the objection "That ain't her mouth" from a male acquaintance. In a controversial passage, several men engage in bestiality while waiting for her to choose one of them. This woman bore sons named Howard and Buglar while married to Halle. A malicious schoolteacher steals breast milk from this woman, who is helped to give birth in a boat by a white girl named Amy. This fugitive from Sweet Home plantation reunites with Paul D at a house called 124 in Ohio. For 10 points, name this mother of Denver, who sawed the throat of her baby in the backstory to Toni Morrison's Beloved.
Sethe Suggs [prompt on Suggs]
7

102559-)
This character states that he saw "one, two, three canoes" instead of six canoes because he cannot count above three. This character attempts to entertain his companions by luring a bear onto a tree and shaking it. He stumps a character by asking why the God doesn't kill the devil, and he once claims that Benamuckee created the world. This character is reunited with his father after battling a group of cannibals, and his footprint allows another character to become aware of his presence. He is taught the word "master" by a man who is stranded on an island. For 10 points, name this character rescued by Robinson Crusoe.
Friday
7

102585-)
This play's author revised it in the 1980s, adding the "Costazuela brothers" and changing mentions of poker to Trivial Pursuit. Characters in this play massage the neck of a man who downed a bottle of sleeping pills, and the third act begins with the throwing of a plate of linguini against the kitchen wall. A character informs his wife he will kill himself using a suicide telegram, plays poker with Murray the cop, and leaves annoying little notes signed "F.U." This play ends with the revelation that one of the title duo has now moved in with the Pigeon sisters. For 10 points, name this play in which the neat freak Felix Ungar moves in with a sloppy sportswriter named Oscar Madison, a work of Neil Simon.
The Odd Couple
7

102607-)
The title woman of a poem by this author asks, "Is this what you call making me comfortable?" as she is lifted into an ambulance, after which she says, "What are all those fuzzy looking things out there? Trees? Well, I'm tired of them." This poet of "The Last Words of My English Grandmother" was parodied in a Kenneth Koch poem describing the chopping down of a house titled "Variations on a Theme by" this author. His poem set "by the road to the contagious hospital" opens the collection Spring and All, and he described fruit that was "delicious so sweet and so cold" in his poem "This Is Just to Say." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote, "so much depends upon a red wheel barrow."
William Carlos Williams
7

102611-)
A chapter titled for this character notes that, "All that most maddens and torments; all that stirs up the lees of things" were "practically assailable" in him. This character is the cause of "Rachel, weeping for her lost children, because they were not," in another chapter. This character is the hearse "not made by mortal hands." Dr. Bunger and his superior argue about their encounter with this character. Macey is killed by this character, according to Gabriel, who claims that this character is the "Shaker God incarnated." This character only appears in three chapters titled "The Chase." For 10 points, name this character who kills most of the crew of the Pequod, a white whale created by Herman Melville.
Moby-Dick
7

102624-)
In Joel Chandler Harris's Uncle Remus tales, an animal of this type sings "Ingle-go-jang, my joy, my joy" after Brer Bear fails to kill it with an axe. A short story partly titled for this animal ends by cutting off a description of a "yeller one-eyed cow that didn't have no tail," and is framed by the narrator's search in Angels Camp for a reverend named Leonidas. In that story, Simon Wheeler describes one of these creatures named Dan'l Webster, which is filled with quail shot so that Jim Smiley will lose a bet. For 10 points, name this type of animal which, in a Mark Twain short story, engages in a jumping contest in Calaveras County.
frogs [or bullfrogs]
7

102651-)
This character is compared to "Marius brooding among the ruins of Carthage." This character uses an old bandanna handkerchief as a savings bank and under his desk he stores a newspaper containing a morsel of cheese. He seems to subsist entirely on the snacks provided him by a youthful coworker. The narrator says "Ah humanity!" shortly after the death of this man, whom he speculates derived existential angst from his previous job in a dead letter office. This colleague of Nippers and Turkey constantly tells people, including his employer, that he would "prefer not to" do tasks. For 10 points, name this title character, a "scrivener" in a Herman Melville story.
Bartleby
7

102680-)
A chapter in this novel opens with instructions on how to pay the cable bill, and its protagonist is fascinated by one character's ambition to set a record for sitting in a cage full of poisonous snakes. Its main character adds an initial to his name to be taken more seriously as an academic and studies German with Howard Dunlop in preparation for a conference. This novel's protagonist's former wives are all connected to the intelligence community, unlike his current wife, who obtains the experimental drug Dylar by engaging in an affair with Willie Mink. Its protagonist is exposed to Nyodene D following the "Airborne Toxic Event." For 10 points, identify this novel about Professor of Hitler Studies Jack Gladney, a work of Don DeLillo.
White Noise
7

102684-)
This story relates how a man would move as reliably as a sundial while smoking his pipe and keeping in the shade of a tree. The epigraph of this story is taken from William Cartwright's The Ordinary and begins "By Woden, God of Saxons." A character in this story is told that a woman died yelling at a peddler shortly after being asked "on which side he voted" by an orator in the Union Hotel. This story concludes by explaining that summer thunderstorms are caused by a group of ghosts playing ninepins in the mountains. For 10 points, name this story presented as a "Writing of Diedrich Knickerbocker" and set in the Catskills Mountains, in which the title character sleeps through the American Revolution.
"Rip Van Winkle"
7

102695-)
This author wrote a play in which some reporters inform the title character that Jonathan and Mary died when their driver was drunk and crashed into a bridge abutment. In that play by this author, an explosion destroys the bank owned by the title character. This author claimed that certain things should be "motionless in time as the moon climbs" and "equal to, not true." In one of his plays, Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar appear as three comforters to the title character who denies them. That play of his begins with Mr. Zuss and Nickles putting on masks representing God and Satan. This author wrote, "A poem should not mean, but be" in a Horace-inspired poem. For 10 points, name this author of "Ars Poetica" and the play J.B.
Archibald MacLeish
7

102712-)
This poet wrote that a certain "self-shriveled" class of people "begin with gaunt and marvelous concession. YOU are the costume and our fundamental bone." In another poem by this author, the narrator declares that "a girl gets sick of a rose" and that she "wants a peek at the back where it's rough and untended and hungry weeds grow." This poet wrote "Primer for Blacks" and "a song in the front yard," the latter of which was included in her collection A Street in Bronzeville. In another of her poems, she wrote about a group of seven pool players who "shoot straight," "Jazz June," and "die soon." For 10 points, name this African-American poet of "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Brooks
7

102735-)
A note about this person cites a passage of "great anthropological interest" from Ovid after describing him as "a mere spectator and not indeed a 'character'" who is "yet the most important personage in the poem." This person first speaks, "At the violet hour, when the eyes and back turn upward from the desk," and watches a "typist home at tea-time." He claims to have "foresuffered all" and "walked among the lowest of the dead" in a poem in which he sees an "Unreal City." This personage from "The Fire Sermon" describes himself as an old man with wrinkled female breasts" in a poem which ends "Shantih shantih shantih." For 10 points, name this narrator of much of T. S. Eliot's "The Waste Land," a gender-switching seer.
Tiresias
7

102748-)
One character in this novel carries two condoms "for prevention of disease only" and frequently shows off a picture of a nude woman and a Shetland pony. In this novel, the guests at a "welcome feast" get diarrhea after a group of British men perform a musical version of Cinderella. This novel's protagonist is rescued by some ski instructors after surviving a plane crash on Sugarbush Mountain and later says "Farewell, goodbye, farewell, goodbye" before being killed by a sniper. In this novel, Edgar Derby is shot for stealing a teacup, and the main character has a child with Montana Wildhack in a zoo on the planet Tralfamadore. For 10 points, name this Kurt Vonnegut novel about a man who becomes "unstuck in time," Billy Pilgrim.
Slaughterhouse-Five
7

102785-)
Early in this story, it is explained that "gentlemen are not excluded" from a certain punishment dictatedby "the liberal military code." In this story, the man on horseback who asks the protagonist's wife for adrink of water turns out to be a Union scout who convinces the protagonist to try to burn the title object.This story tells of its protagonist's swimming escape while shots were fired at him from above. Thatprotagonist of this story blacks out as he is about to hug his wife and feels a sharp pain on his neckshortly before it is revealed he was indeed killed by hanging. For 10 points, name this short story aboutPeyton Farquhar, written by Ambrose Bierce.
"An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"
6

102810-)
A response to this play includes a fifty-year time jump between its two acts and tells of Russ and Bev, whose son Kenneth committed suicide after the Korean War. This play was the basis for the Bruce Norris play that won the 2011 Pulitzer Prize. In one scene from this play, Bobo arrives to reveal that Willy Harris stole $6500 intended as a liquor store investment. In this play, Asagai tries to convince Beneatha to move to Africa with him, while Mama decides what to do with an insurance check from Walter's death. For 10 points, name this play about the Younger family's move to Clybourne Park, written by Lorraine Hansberry.
A Raisin in the Sun
7

102821-)
This poet wrote, "The eye's plain version is a thing apart, the vulgate of experience" in one long poem. He noted, "until now I never knew that fluttering things have so distinct a shade," in the final stanza of a poem addressed to the "mother of heaven, regina of the clouds." This poet of An Ordinary Evening in New Haven addressed Ramon Fernandez in the penultimate stanza of a poem about a woman who "sang beyond the genius of the sea." Another of this author's speakers asks, "Why do you imagine golden birds?" of the "thin men of Haddam." For 10 points, name this poet whose first collection, Harmonium, includes "The Idea of Order at Key West" and "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird."
Wallace Stevens
7

102843-)
While discussing taking these objects, two men say they are "not actually talking about it" but "speaking about it as an idea." These objects are eventually delivered to the offstage Jerry Graff by thieves. The theft of these objects, which is committed to get back at "Murray and Mitch," is investigated by Detective Baylen and results in James Lingk canceling a contract. In a Chinese restaurant, John Williamson offers to sell these things. At the end of a play, it is revealed that Dave Moss and Shelley "The Machine" Levene conspired to break into the office and steal these objects, which will result in their firing and more business for Ricky Roma. For 10 points, name these important lists of contact information in a play by David Mamet.
the Glengarry leads
7

102863-)
In this novel, an old woman bangs her head against the ground in front of a crucifix. This novel ends with the protagonist fantasizing about shooting a naked king while riding through a crowd in a coach. In this novel, a a pince-nez-wearing magistrate who reads Spinoza is hung by a belt in jail. The main character of this novel saves a drunken man whom he finds lying face down in the snow and almost has sex with that man's daughter, Zeneida. Shortly after the protagonist chases some boys out of a brickyard, a body with thirty-seven wounds is discovered in a nearby cave. For 10 points, name this novel in which the Jewish handyman Yakov Bok is imprisoned for ritual murder, a work of Bernard Malamud.
The Fixer
7

102869-)
This play begins in a chamber furnished only by a scarlet throne where a woman explains that the workers have run away to the hills. The protagonist of this play shoots at the shapeless beings called "Little Formless Fears" that he encounters in the forest and then imagines being auctioned off as a slave and transported on a slave ship while a tom-tom beats ever faster and louder in the background. The title character of this play avoids being sacrificed to a crocodile towards the end, and he originally runs away from his palace when he learns of Lem's rebellion from the white trader Smithers. For 10 points, name this Eugene O'Neill play in which a former Pullman Porter, Brutus, is finally killed by a silver bullet.
The Emperor Jones
7

102884-)
In the final sentence of this novel, the protagonist vows to step "out of history into history and the awful responsibility of time." Warnings about football come true when its title character's son, the quarterback Tom, breaks his spine after impregnating Sibyl Frey. In this novel, the surgeon Adam Stanton murders a man who charged him with a six million dollar public hospital. This novel's protagonist comes to understand his ancestor Cass Mastern after inadvertently causing the death of Judge Irwin. In this novel, Jack Burden describes the gradual corruption of his friend, the politician Willie Stark. For 10 points, name this Robert Penn Warren novel about a corrupt governor inspired by Huey Long.
All the King's Men
7

102894-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

102895-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

102896-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

102904-)
A poem by this author describes two characters who talk "as kinsmen met at night" until the moss reaches their lips. This author wrote of the notched pencil of a dead friend in one poem, and described an "onset" when the "King be witnessed - in the Room" in another. This poet wrote, "I signed away what portion of me be assignable" and described how "then the Windows failed" in another poem. One of this author's poems mentions "a House that seemed a swelling in the Ground" and a "School, where Children strove at recess." In that poem of hers, the speaker remembers the day "I first surmised the Horses' heads were toward Eternity." For 10 points, name this author of "I heard a Fly buzz - when I died" and "Because I could not stop for Death."
Emily Dickinson
7

102922-)
One of this author's poems describes "a real live democratic dog" with "something to say about ontology" which looks "like a living questionmark / into the great gramophone of puzzling existence." Another of this author's poems declares "Yes the world is the best place of all" before warning "but right in the middle of it comes the smiling mortician." This author wrote a poem named for a place where the speaker "first fell in love with unreality," which ends with the lines "Outside the leaves were falling and they cried Too soon! too soon!" This author compared a poet to an acrobat climbing "on rime / to a high wire of his own making" in "Constantly Risking Absurdity." Another poem by this author of "the pennycandy store behind the El" claims that the moment when people attained the title of "suffering humanity" is captured in "Goya's greatest scenes." For 10 points, name this Beat poet who founded the City Lights Bookstore and wrote A Coney Island of the Mind.
Lawrence Ferlinghetti
8

102953-)
In a Sinclair Lewis novel, the literary club of Gopher Prairie, Minnesota is named for one of this man'sworks. The speaker of one of this author's poems is awed by a Power "whose care / Teaches thy wayalong that pathless coast" though soon "that toil shall end." The speaker of that poem by this authorhopes that "in the long way that [he] must tread alone," his steps will be led aright by the one whoguides the addressee's "certain flight." Another of this author's poems suggests not going "like thequarry-slave at night" when "thy summons comes to join" an "innumerable caravan," and to simply lie"down to pleasant dreams." For 10 points, name this poet of "To a Waterfowl," who penned ameditation on death called "Thanatopsis."
William Cullen Bryant
6

102981-)
In this play, a man mentions how his faulty sense of geography led him to end up in Alaska instead ofAfrica. In this play, some rubber pipe is found attached to the water heater in a basement. A character inthis play shows off a recording of his son reciting the state capitals during a meeting with theprotagonist. In this play, Bill Oliver's fountain pen is stolen by a character who gives up his plan to start asporting goods store. The main character of this play was caught cheating with the Woman by his son inBoston and kills himself by crashing his car. For 10 points, name this Arthur Miller play featuring Biff,Happy, and the title character, Willy Loman.
Death of a Salesman
6

102995-)
In a novel whose title includes this color, Dinah Brand's murder is pinned on the Continental Op. Thiscolor appears in the title of a short story in which a party's host is angered when one attendee "out-Herods Herod" by dressing like a dead man That story with this color in the title is about people wholock themselves in an abbey owned by Prince Prospero, who dies after succumbing to the title disease,and was written by Edgar Allan Poe. In a novel with this color in the title, Jim Conklin succumbs to awound after Henry Fleming flees during a Civil War battle. For 10 points, name this color which appearsin the name of a Stephen Crane novel about a certain "Badge of Courage."
red
6

103012-)
While being driven to lunch, this character is shown a war medal from Montenegro and a picture ofcricket players, convincing him that another man's story is true. This character's lawn is mowed by hisneighbor's gardener when he fails to tend to it. This character recalls his father telling him to rememberthat "all the people in this world haven't had the advantages that" he had in his "younger and morevulnerable years." This character meets the title character of the novel in which he appears shortly aftermoving to West Egg; that title character is this man's wealthy neighbor who loves Daisy Buchanan. For10 points, identify this narrator of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby.
Nick Carraway [accept either name]
6

103028-)
The protagonist of a novel by this author causes his housekeeper to drop dead from fright by shouting athis wife about an abandoned cat. A pickpocket stalks and flashes another of this author's protagonists,who is a one-eyed holocaust survivor. In one of his novels, Thea attempts to train a bald eagle to catchiguanas in Mexico. This author's title characters include a millionaire pig-farmer who travels to Africa anda man who imagines writing letters to people like Einstein and Martin Luther King. This author of Mr.Sammler's Planet wrote a novel that begins "I am an American, Chicago born." For 10 points, name thisauthor of Henderson the Rain King, Herzog, and The Adventures of Augie March.
Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows]
6

103058-)
The protagonist of this short story has a fishing rod called Killall, which scares trout enough to want to jump in his pockets. Another man in this story hits rock bottom when his plowshare crashes on a rock and his horse starts coughing. In this story, Miser Stevens' voice is heard coming out of a handkerchief. A resident of Marshfield partially titles this story, which references a Whittier poem when one character predicts another's future, saying "They will call you Ichabod." In this story, Judge Hathorne presides over a jury of twelve dead men, who rule in favor of Jabez Stone against Scratch. For 10 points, name this story in which a New Hampshire farmer's soul is saved by the lawyering of an American senator, by Stephen Vincent Benet.
"The Devil and Daniel Webster"
7

103063-)
This poem imagines people saying "I'll concentrate more on my work" before asking "Who can speak for the dumb?" The speaker of this poem states that he is made of "Eros and dust." This poem claims that "accurate scholarship" can determine "what huge imago made a psychopathic God," and it mentions "what mad Nijinsky wrote about Diaghilev." The author of this poem wishes to "show an affirming flame," and he later came to dislike its line "We must love one another or die." For 10 points, name this poem beginning, "I sit in one of the dives on Fifty-second Street, uncertain and afraid," which was written by W. H. Auden and titled for the first day of World War II.
"September 1, 1939"
7

103070-)
In a play set in this country, a man continually recites a poem beginning, "How calmly does the olive branch observe the sky begin to blanch." In that play, Wolfgang, Hilda, and the Fahrenkopfs are Germans in this country who delight in listening to Nazi propaganda songs. In this country, Maxine Faulk runs a cheap hotel, and the defrocked Reverend T. Lawrence Shannon works as a tour guide. It's not the United States, but John Grady Cole and Rawlins find work at a ranch here in a Cormac McCarthy novel. For 10 points, name this country, the setting of Tennessee Williams' play The Night of the Iguana and a setting of All the Pretty Horses, in which cowboys journey here from Texas.
Mexico [or the United Mexican States]
7

103090-)
In a story from this collection, Anthony Rockwell confirms that money can buy everything, by hiring a group of cab drivers to aid his son's proposal to Miss Lantry. A character from this collection searches for a "man about town," only to realize that he is that person. One character in this collection steals an umbrella hoping to get arrested, while another saves Johnsy by painting the title picture on a wall. In a story in this collection, Della and Jim buy ineffective Christmas gifts for each other by selling their most prized possessions. For 10 points, name this short story collection featuring "The Last Leaf" and "The Gift of the Magi," written by O. Henry.
The Four Million
7

103104-)
Jeffrey Eugenides repeatedly denied that this other author was the basis for the manic- depressive Leonard Bankhead in Eugenides' book about Brown University grads, The Marriage Plot. He called himself a "semi-agoraphobe" in an essay about his time aboard the Zenith, a grating cruise ship. Michael Pietsch helped edit and finish a novel by this author set largely in a Peoria, Illinois IRS office. This author of "A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again" also wrote about an addictive film produced by James Incandenza, whose son Hal attends the Enfield Tennis Academy. For 10 points, name this frequently bandana-clad author who left The Pale King unfinished at the time of his suicide and wrote Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace
7

103133-)
John Bassett nearly lost his job for an unflattering article about the intellectual scene of this place. H. L. Mencken complained that this place is "almost as sterile, artistically, intellectually, culturally, as the Sahara desert" in "The Sahara of the Bozart." Mencken was also critical of an article by Donald Davidson which defended its religious and agrarian past. Davidson belonged to a group of writers from this place who argued for its traditionalism in the collection I'll Take My Stand. William Faulkner's novels are often classified as a type of "Gothic" fiction named for this place. For 10 points, name this region of the United States.
the American South [or obvious equivalents]
7

103140-)
In one of this man's poems, Simon Zealot claims, "If they think they ha' slain our Goodly Fere they are fools eternally." Another of this author's poems mimics the song "Go Lovely Rose" by addressing a "dumb-born book" in the section "Envoi." In another, a "stirrer-up of strife" declares, "Damn it all! All this our South stinks of Peace!" This author wrote, "the age demanded an image of its accelerated grimace," and described a man whose "true Penelope was Flaubert" in one poem. This poet wrote the "Pisan" section of one work while being detained in a cage, and he described "petals on a wet, black bough" in a two line poem. For 10 points, name this poet of "Hugh Selwyn Mauberley," "In a Station of the Metro," and The Cantos.
Ezra Pound
7

103153-)
In a jealous fit, this novel's protagonist is unable to stop thinking about the phrase, "Do you mind if I pull down the curtain?" Maria Wallis shoots an Englishman at a train station in this novel. In this novel's final scene, the protagonist divorces his wife while the Tour de France is passing by. At a ski lodge, this novel's protagonist meets a rich American heiress named Baby Warren. Abe North's alcohol-driven deterioration parallels the protagonist's own downward spiral, culminating with Tommy Barban marrying his wife. In this novel, Hollywood darling Rosemary Hoyt wins the attentions of a celebrated psychologist. For 10 points, name this semi- autobiographical novel about Nicole and Dick Diver, written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Tender Is the Night
7

103179-)
One poem by this author instructs the reader to find a broken goblet in a ruined house and to "drink andbe whole again beyond confusion." This author wrote of being "overtired of the great harvest I myselfdesired" in a poem that begins by describing "my long two-pointed ladder's sticking through a tree." Apoem by this author of "Directive" describes a man grasping two stones "like an old-stone savagearmed" and suggests "elves" as something that doesn't love the title thing. In that poem by him, thespeaker's neighbor senselessly repeats the phrase "good fences make good neighbors." For 10 points,name this American poet of "Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening" and "Mending Wall".
Robert [Lee] Frost
6

103185-)
[missing]
[missing]
6

103186-)
A visit to the unmarked grave of this novel's author is described in an essay by Alice Walker. After thedeath of one character in this novel, his wife burns her head rags and wears her hair in a long braid. Theframe story of this novel is a conversation with Phoeby, soon after the protagonist's acquittal forshooting her husband, who had been bitten by a rabid dog in the aftermath of a hurricane. This novel'sprotagonist is forced to run a store after marrying Joe Starks, but after he dies, remarries Vergible "TeaCake" Woods. For 10 points, name this novel about the life of Janie Crawford, written by Zora NealeHurston.
Their Eyes Were Watching God
6

103204-)
One of this author's poems claims that "the windiest militant trash / Important Persons shout / Is not socrude as our wish" to "be loved alone." That poem describes a bar filled with "children afraid of thenight / Who have never been happy or good" which is why "the lights must never go out, the musicmust always play." Another of his poems describes a spot where a horse scratches its behind on a treeand "the dogs go on with their doggy life," not noticing "a boy falling out of the sky;" that poem wasinspired by Breughel's ["BROY-gull's"] Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. For 10 points, identify this poetof "MusÃ©e des Beaux Arts" and "September 1, 1939."
W.H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]
6

103226-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems mentions how the title entity has a song, a sting, and a wing,for "fame is a bee." Another of this author's poems mentions how "A Service...kept beating, beating"and "Mourners to and fro kept treading" as the speaker "heard them lift a box" for "a funeral, in myBrain." In another poem by this author, the speaker recalls pausing before a house, which, because itsroof "was scarcely visible," seemed to be "a Swelling of the Ground." The speaker has become"inebriate of Air" and a "Debauchee of dew" in her poem "I Taste a Liquor Never Brewed." For 10points, name this "Belle of Amherst" who wrote "Because I Could Not Stop for Death."
Emily Dickinson
6

103326-)
One poem by this author asks questions like "What were the hymns that buzzed beside my ears?" Thispoet wrote of a man who "rode over Connecticut in a glass coach" in a poem which asks "thin men ofHaddam, why do you imagine golden birds?" In a poem by this man, a sheet with embroidered fantailsis taken out of "the dresser of deal, lacking three glass knobs." One of his poems describes an eye thatwas the only moving thing among "twenty snowy mountains." He wrote a poem that depicts a wake andcommands "Call the roller of big cigars." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "Thirteen Ways ofLooking at a Blackbird" and "The Emperor of Ice-Cream."
Wallace Stevens
6

103346-)
The protagonist of one of this man's novels is diagnosed with "grun-tumolani" and, in an effort tofulfill the voice in his head that repeats "I want," visits Arnewi, where he meets Romilayu and movesa statue of Mummah. The hero of another of his novels considers killing Valentine Gersbach, who issleeping with his ex-wife Madeleine, and composes letters to men like Nietzsche and DwightEisenhower. One of this author's protagonists is shipwrecked while aboard the McManus; that (*)Chicagoan had earlier traveled to Mexico with Thea and worked for the financier Einhorn in the picaresquenovel titled for him. For 10 points, name this Nobel-winning Jewish author of Henderson the Rain King,Herzog, and The Adventures of Augie March.
Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellow]
5

103499-)
In one scene in this novel, a character who hears the words "falling plane" thinks he is in a fallingairplane and assumes a fetal position. That character in this novel is taken to a hospital staffed by a nunwho doesn't believe in God. This novel's protagonist learns German from Howard Dunlop, and shootsWillie Mink after learning about Mink's affair with his wife Babette. In this novel, College on the Hillprofessor Murray Jay Siskind wants to create a scholarly field centered on Elvis. A black cloud ofNyodene D is released after a train crashes, causing the "Airborne Toxic Event" in this novel. For 10points, identify this novel about Hitler Studies professor Jack Gladney, written by Don DeLillo.
White Noise
6

103524-)
This character appears in the short story "I'm Crazy," in which he describes sneaking into his apartmentafter dropping out of school. This character accidentally leaves the fencing team's equipment aboard asubway. Despite paying a prostitute even though he didn't have sex with her, this character is punchedby her pimp as Sunny takes more of his money. This character imagines himself as a guardian of childrenplaying a game in a field right next to a cliff, and he frequently reminisces about his dead brother Allie.After leaving Pencey Prep, this hater of phonies visits his sister Phoebe in New York City. For 10 points,identify this protagonist of J. D. Salinger's The Catcher in the Rye.
Holden Caulfield [accept either]
6

103543-)
In this novel, a crayon image of Donald Duck is placed side-by-side with a crucifixion scene with a crimson-red sun in anart collection by the patients of Ward Two A, where the son of Mr. and Mrs. Givings is interred. An adulterous characterin this novel imagines himself as "an intense, nicotine-stained, Jean-Paul-Sartre sort of man." In this novel, which openswith a disastrous staging of The Petrified Forest, a woman deals with the anxiety of her decision to abort her third child bysleeping with her neighbor (*) Shep Campbell. Its male protagonist resumes his affair with his coworker Maureen, thwarting hiswife's plans to move to Paris. This novel is about the decaying suburban marriage of Frank and April Wheeler and was adaptedinto a 2008 film directed by Sam Mendes. For 10 points, name this novel by Richard Yates.
 Revolutionary Road
9

103559-)
One character in this play used to sit at one end of a coffee shop and glare at the occupant of his favorite seat until thatperson left. Another character in this play repeats the sentence "they're just missing the whole point." After one characterin this play describes the general attitude of the central location as "live and let live," another says "live and let live is, atbest, a load of crap." One of its characters describes parking his bike next to a fence and observing what he thought was ascarecrow, but was actually a (*) dead body. The father of its central character states that his son "did not look like a winner,"condemning but forgiving Henderson and McKinney. The central character of this play, partly created by the Tectonic Theaterproject, dies after leaving his hometown to go to a gay bar. For 10 points, Moises Kaufman produced what play about the murderof Matthew Shepard in a Wyoming town, often protested by anti-gay groups such as the Westboro Baptist Church?
The Laramie Project
9

103561-)
In the original version of this poem published in the Charleston Columbian Herald, the second line referenced a "drearydark" place and the most celebrated line concerned an "empty image." In this poem, a "white arrayed" nature "bade theeshun the vulgar eye" by providing the title object with "guardian shade" and "soft waters murmuring by." This poemdictates "If nothing once, you nothing lose, For when you die you are the same" and decrees that "No roving foot shallcrush thee here, No busy hand provoke a tear." Later, as "summer goes," the "Unpitying (*) frosts and Autumn's power"leave "no vestige" of this poem's title object that was "Hid in this silent, dull retreat." The final couplet in this poem reads "Thespace between is but an hour, The frail duration of a flower." For 10 points, name this poem that illustrates the transience
The Wild Honeysuckle
9

103626-)
One of this author's essays describes how deities such as Huitzilopochtli have been consigned to oblivion, and begins by asking "where is the graveyard of dead gods?" Another of this author's essays uses the brick houses around Pittsburgh as an example of the American "libido for the ugly." This author translated Nietzsche's The Anti-Christ into English, and included his essay "Puritanism as a Literary Force" in A Book of Prefaces. He attacked the provincialism of the South in "The Sahara of the Bozart." This author defended the colorfulness of American slang in his 1919 study of spoken English, The American Language, and co-founded The American Mercury with George Jean Nathan. For 10 points, name this acerbic early 20th century American essayist and journalist known as the "sage of Baltimore."
H(enry) L(ouis) Mencken
8

103652-)
In an allegorical poem by this author, sin is the "distinguished precipice," David is "the Troubadour," Judas is "the GreatDefaulter," Satan is "the Brigadier," and Eden is "the ancient Homestead." This author notes that "Microscopes areprudent in an emergency" in contrast to faith, which is "a fine invention / When Gentlemen can see." This author wrotethat "The Bible is an (*) antique volumeÂ—Written by faded men" in one poem and described how charts and compasses arediscarded when "rowing in Eden!" in another. In one poem by this writer, the title character is unmoved when "an emperor iskneeling / Upon her mat," since she "shuts the door" immediately following the title action. This author of "Wild Nights! WildNights!" and "The soul selects her own society" described how from "tankards scooped in pearl," the speaker "taste[s] a liquornever brewed." For 10 points, name this Belle of Amherst. 
Emily [Elizabeth] Dickinson
9

103684-)
This play ends with another of its characters taking up his grandfather's call "Go out and fight so life shouldn't be printed on dollar bills." That character fights his family's opposition to his girlfriend Blanche and works as a clerk in a silk house. One character in this play smashes her father's beloved record of Caruso performing "O Paradiso." This play climaxes with Hennie leaving her husband Sam Feinschreiber and running off to Havana with Moe Axelrod. The central family in this play includes the matriarch Bessie, her Marxist father Jacob, and her idealistic son Ralph. Taking its title from the Book of Isaiah, it is set in a Bronx apartment during the Great Depression, and was first staged after the success of its author's play Waiting for Lefty. For 10 points, name this play with a musical title about the Berger family by Clifford Odets.
Awake and Sing!
8

103749-)
This poem's fourth section describes a figure who "Made cool the dry rock and made firm the sand" and "walked between the violet and the violet." Its fifth section asks if a "veiled sister" will pray for "those who walk in darkness," and repeats the line "O my people, what have I done unto thee." This poem declares "Redeem / The Time. Redeem / The unread vision in the higher dream," and ends with its speaker imploring "Suffer me not to be separated / And let my cry come unto Thee." This poem repeats the question "shall these bones live?" in its second section, which imagines "three leopards" who "sat under a juniper-tree." Written after its author's conversion to Anglicanism, it begins with variations of the line "Because I do not hope to turn again." For 10 points, identify this poem by T. S. Eliot named for a Christian holiday.
"Ash Wednesday"
8

103769-)
This novel's preface identifies its ideal reader as an "unseen brother of the soul." This novel's penultimate chapter takes place during a wild carnival, where one of its characters encounters two former friends disguised as a peasant and a contadina. In its fourth chapter, another of its characters becomes lost in catacombs and encounters a sinister monk, who is later murdered by being thrown off the Tarpeian Rock. Published in England as Transformation, and subtitled "The Romance of Monte Beni," it ends with the marriage of Hilda and Kenyon. This novel follows a group of American artists in Italy, including the painter Miriam, whose sexuality fascinates Donatello. For 10 points, identify this 1860 novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne whose name comes from Donatello's resemblance to a Praxiteles sculpture.
The Marble Faun, or the Romance of Monte Beni
8

103779-)
In a one-act play by this author, the brothers Afa and Augustin return from a fishing trip to find the latter's East Indiangodfather dead. In another of this author's plays, an angry mob murders Moustique after his impersonation of the maincharacter is unraveled by the coffin-maker Basil. Another play by this author of The Sea at Dauphin features an abortedfetus named Bolom, who presents the devil's challenge: successfully vex the devil or be eaten, a fate faced by Gros (*) Jeanand Mi-Jean. A charcoal burner escapes with Souris and Tigre from imprisonment by Colonel Lestrade in this another play by thisauthor, which is about the title hallucination of Makak. This author of Ti-Jean and His Brothers wrote a work that tells the storyof Maud and Major Plunkett and includes the allegorical characters Philoctete, Helen, Hector, and Achille. For 10 points, namethis author of Dream on Monkey Mountain, who adapted the Odyssey to his native St. Lucia in the poem Omeros.
Derek Walcott
9

103790-)
This novel's preface states that a writer can "mellow the lights and deepen and enrich the shadows of the picture" whenwriting a romance, which is distinguished from writing a novel. In this novel, an ancient race of birds once laid massiveeggs, but have shriveled into lanky chickens by years of breeding. One of its characters is repulsed by two lower-classlaborers discussing the prospects of her store, whose first customer, Ned Higgins, orders all the gingerbread animals. Inthis novel, a set of flowers nicknamed "Alice's posies" bloom just before a judge (*) hemorrhages blood, reflecting the curse"God will give him blood to drink!" In this novel, Clifford is wrongly imprisoned for the murder of his uncle. Matthew Maule'scurse on the central family of this novel seemingly ends with the marriage of Holgrave and Phoebe. For 10 points, name thisnovel about the Pyncheon family, the inhabitants of the title decaying New England mansion, by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The House of the Seven Gables
9

103811-)
An immigrant in this novel is hired by Sister Wanda to make silk for the Nation of Islam. Another character in this novel is nicknamed "Chapter Eleven" for bankrupting his father's chain Hercules Hot Dogs. The protagonist of this novel runs away from Dr. Luce's clinic to San Francisco and becomes a burlesque dancer at the Sixty-Niners. It was inspired by the memoirs of Herculine Barbin, and is narrated by a character who falls in love with a woman nicknamed the Obscure Object. Its first section details the incestuous relationship between Desdemona and Lefty, who move in with Lina Zizmo after escaping the 1922 fire of Smyrna and moving to Detroit. The protagonist of this novel is born with a 5-alpha-reductase deficiency, and is raised as a girl until turning fourteen. For 10 points, name this 2002 novel about the hermaphrodite Cal Stephanides, written by Jeffrey Eugenides.
Middlesex
8

103815-)
This author wrote an epistolary short story in which the opportunistic aspiring songwriter Charles Lewis marries the sister of Paul Sears instead of Mabelle Gillespie. One of this author's "nonsense plays" includes the stage direction "The curtain is lowered for seven days to denote the lapse of a week." His parody of The Young Visitors, The Young Immigrunts, contains the line "shut up, he explained." The inspiration for Abe North in Tender is the Night, he wrote a short story recounting the mean-spirited practical jokes played by Jim Kendall, who is shot by Paul Dickson in revenge for humiliating Julie Gregg. This author included his stories "My Roomy" and "Some Like Them Cold" in his collection How to Write Short Stories, and wrote a book subtitled "the busher's letters," which recounts the exploits of White Sox pitcher Jack Keefe. For 10 points, name this American humorist, the author of the short story "Haircut" and You Know Me Al.
Ring Lardner
8

103824-)
This work contrasts George Herbert with Alexander Pope and Spinoza with Locke as examples of the difference between sacred and literary teachers, the first of whom speak from within while the latter speak from without. Noting that "the position men have given to Jesus... is a position of authority," this work claims that "the faith that stands on authority is not faith," and concludes by encouraging men to perform an action that will cause them to "cease from what is base and frivolous." As examples of contact with the titular entity, the author offers "the convulsions of George Fox [and] the rapture of the Moravian and Quietist," and in one of its opening sections, purports to report hints "of the transcendent simplicity and energy of the Highest Law." This work refers to the title entity as the "Supreme Critic" and identifies it with "that great nature in which we rest," claiming that "within man is... the eternal ONE." For ten points, identify this essay about the unity of everything as contained in the title concept, written by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
"The Oversoul"
8

103837-)
This character clears a river of its sunken logs and sand bars with his friend Kwasind, who iskilled when jealous pygmies throw pine cones at him. After he kills twelve serpents, a woodpeckertells this man that an evil wizard's only weakness is at the roots of his hair. At his wedding, guestsare entertained by the love songs of Chibiabos and the tall tales of Iagoo. This man has shoes that lethim walk a mile with each stride. He rejects a pike and a sunfish before he is finally swallowed by themighty (*) sturgeon Nahma, whom he punches in the heart. He creates the first corn plant by wrestling andburying a stranger. This character is the son of Nokomis, and marries Minnehaha on the shores of GitcheGumee. For 10 points, name this title character of a "song" by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
Hiawatha
8

103843-)
This author wrote of the "syntax of rendition" and how the "verb force-feeds the noun" in thetitle poem of her collection Tonight No Poetry Will Serve. The protagonist of another of her poemsfeels "the daylight coming like a relentless milkman up the stairs" even after "she was back in loveagain." She wrote about "the massive weight of Uncle's wedding band" in a poem in which the titlecharacter sews animals that "prance across a screen, bright topaz denizens of a world of green." Thisauthor of "Living in Sin" and (*) "Aunt Jennifer's Tigers" wrote "The words are purposes. The words aremaps" in a poem whose narrator has "read the book of myths and loaded the camera, and checked the edgeof the knife-blade." For 10 points, name this American author of "Diving into the Wreck."
Adrienne Rich
8

103853-)
The narrator of this poem promises to "make appointments with all," claiming "I will not have asingle person slighted or left away." This poem notes "I hear and behold God in every object, yetunderstand God not in the least." This poem's narrator hears the violoncello, the key'd cornet, thechorus, and the train'd soprano as "the orchestra whirls me wider than Uranus flies." One of itssections mentions "the tale of the murder in cold blood of four hundred and twelve young men."After being asked a quetion by a child, the narrator of this poem says "How could I answer thechild? I do not know what it is any more than he." Its narrator promises to (*) "sound my barbaricyawp over the roofs of the world" after asking "do i contradict myself?" For 10 points, name this WaltWhitman poem which begins "I celebrate myself, and sing myself."
"Song of Myself"
8

103865-)
The narrator of this poem considers "Pictures of growing spring and farms and homes" afterasking "what shall I hang on the chamber walls?" Its twelfth section discusses "Ohio's shores,""flashing Missouri," and "my own Manhattan with spires." This poem ends by recalling therecurring images of "the fragrant pines and the cedars dusk and dim." Its narrator hears the songthat the gray-brown hermit bird sings from the swamp, which he connects to a bush with"heart-shaped leaves of rich green" and a (*) star in the western sky. This poem's sixth part introducesthe "tolling tolling bells' perpetual clang," as a coffin "passes through lanes and streets" accompanied by asprig of the title flower. For 10 points, name this sixteen part free verse elegy, written on the death ofAbraham Lincoln by Walt Whitman.
"When Lilacs Last in the Door-yard Bloom'd"
8

103878-)
One of this man's poems includes the image of "dense commuters" repeating the morning vow of"I will be true to the wife, I'll concentrate more on work." That poem also includes the suggestionthat "what mad Nijinsky wrote about Diaghilev is true of the normal heart." Another of his poemsconcludes that "even the dreadful martyrdom must run its course" in "some untidy spot." He wrotethat"Ironic points of light flash out wherever the Just exchange their messages" in a poem which andwarns (*) "we must love one another or die." That poem concerns a "psychopathic god" and opens "I sitin one of the dives on Fifty-second Street." He wrote "About suffering they were never wrong, the oldMasters" in a poem inspired by a Brueghel painting. For 10 points, name this poet of "September 1, 1939"and "Musee des Beaux Arts."
Wystan Hugh Auden
8

103897-)
This author wrote of a "flyweight pacifist" who "wore rope shoes and preferred fallen fruit" in a poem about his time in jail.  This writer describes a "hermit heiress" who "buys up all the eyesores facing her shore" in one poem, and in another, he claims "The Lord survives the rainbow of His will" after describing a solemn Virgin Mary at Walsingham. After driving up a hill to watch for "love-cars," this author of "Memories of West Street and Lepke" observes a fearless mother who leads her kittens up Main Street in search of sour cream. This writer of the collections Lord Weary's Castle and Life Studies also wrote of sailors catching a corpse in their nets and mourned his drowned cousin Warren Winslow in a work that features a slew of Moby Dick references. For ten points, name this poet of "Skunk Hour" and "The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket."
Robert Traill Spence Lowell, Jr.
7

103932-)
One of this author's characters remembers that it took her three days to dispose of an Easter chick. That character is Ginnie Maddox. One of this man's characters wears a robe when he goes to the beach in order to hide a tattoo which he doesn't actually have. One of this man's works tells of one title character's date with Lane Coutell on the weekend of a Yale football game. The second part of that work by this author focuses on the genius older brother of the first title character.  In one of this man's stories, a young girl named Sybil hears about the title creatures who get stuck in holes before Seymour commits suicide. For 10 points, name this reclusive American author who created the Glass family in such works as "A Perfect Day for Bananafish" and Franny and Zooey.
Jerome David Salinger
7

103948-)
In one story in this collection, a woman insists on taking a box of candy to the local jail, leading her son to talk to Sheriff Farebrother. This collection, which comes with an introduction by Robert Fitzgerald, also features a character who's impressed by a pink toilet and proves his faith by eating a page of the Bible he stole from a dime store. In another story, nine year old Mary Fortune Pitts has her head smashed against some rocks by her angry grandfather. The prostitute Sarah Ham, who goes by the name Star Drake, is featured in the story "The Comforts of Home," which joins entries like "A View of the Woods" and "The Lame Shall Enter First" in this collection. The title story features Carver, a black boy who boards a bus also occupied by Julian and his mother, who wears an ugly hat and has a stroke after Julian ridicules her racism. FTP, name this collection, the final book published by Flannery O'Connor.
Everything that Rises Must Converge
9

103968-)
At the end of this novel, its main character imagines Nettie Struther's baby lying against her arms after burning incriminating letters she bought from Mrs. Haffen instead of using them as blackmail. The second book of this novel begins in Monte Carlo, where the protagonist is socially sacrificed to cover up the extramarital affair between Ned Silverton and Bertha Dorset. The protagonist is disinherited in favor of Grace Stepney by her aunt Mrs. Peniston, and uses the small sum bequeathed to her by her aunt's death to pay her debts to Gus Trenor. The main character's desperate marriage proposal is rejected by Simon Rosedale years after she is abandoned by Lawrence Selden, contributing to her death from an overdose of chloral. FTP, name this novel by Edith Wharton about the downfall of Lily Bart.
The House of Mirth
9

103983-)
One of this author's poems describes an "alive, venomous" crowd laughing "permanently, seriously / without thought," and warns "the flashy female with her mother gets it" and "the Jew gets it straight." In another poem, this author imagines admiring his body while dancing "naked, grotesquely before [his] mirror," and asks "Who shall say I am not the happy genius of my household?" This author of "At the Ball Game" and "Dance Russe" wrote a poem in which boats race over a "sea of faces about them in agony, in despair," and warned "Hold back the edges of your gowns, Ladies, we are going through hell" in his introduction to Howl and Other Poems. Besides writing "The Yachts," he wrote the long poems Kora in Hell and Asphodel, that Greeny Flower, as well as a poem named for his New Jersey hometown. For 10 points, name this American poet of Paterson and "The Red Wheelbarrow."
William Carlos Williams
8

104017-)
One character in this novel meets the beautiful Yashmee Halfcourt, who works with the Britishorganization called TWIT to fight evil with Pythagorean ideas. A dog in this novel likes to readHenry James and is named Pugnax. One of its central characters is saved by his Italian friends Roccoand Pino after barely escaping from a mayonnaise factory in Flanders. This novel's charactersinclude Francisco Madero, Franz Ferdinand, and Nikola Tesla, who is witnessed in connection to the(*) Tunguska explosion. This novel opens at the 1893 Columbian exposition, where a Hydrogen airshipcalled the Inconvenience carries a group of five friends called the Chums of Chance. It follows the travelsof the anarchist Webb Traverse and his children. For 10 points, name this longest novel of ThomasPynchon.
Against the Day
8

104034-)
The speaker of this poem implores the "Angel of the backward look" to clasp "the brazen covers of thy book" which hides the "spectral past." Its speaker wonders "What mattered in the sufferer's sight / The Quaker matron's inward light / The Doctor's mail of Calvin's creed?" and warns "melt not in an acid sect / The Christian pearl of charity." Several characters in this poem create a tunnel they compare to "Aladdin's wondrous cave" after waking up to look "upon a world unknown." Beginning "The sun that brief December day / Rose cheerless over hills of gray," this poem describes characters like a "not unfeared, half-welcome guest" and "the master of the village school," who tell stories around a fireplace. First published in 1866 with the subtitle "A Winter Idyll," for 10 points, name this John Greenleaf Whittier poem about a rural blizzard.
"Snow-Bound"
8

104047-)
In Somerset Maugham's story "Rain," the Davidsons convince the governor to send Sadie back tothis city, where she is wanted by the police. This city's statue of Benjamin Franklin is central toRichard Brautigan's Trout Fishing in America, which is largely set here. Humphrey Van Weydensurvives the shipwreck of this city's ferry before he is picked up by Wolf Larson in (*) The Sea-Wolf.Dashiell Hammett's fictional detectives the Continental Op and Sam Spade are both based in this city. Anovel composed of 590 Eugene Onegin stanzas describes the yuppies of this city, and it was the site of theSix Gallery where Allen Ginsberg first read "Howl". For 10 points, name this west coast home of the BeatMovement and setting of Vikram Seth's Golden Gate.
San Francisco
8

104063-)
This character serves as a fire department mascot as a boy, which begins an obsession withfiremen that is cemented when he accidentally kills three of them during the war. He marries SylviaDuVrais Zetterling, who is diagnosed with the first case of samaritrophia. This man wakes up in anIndianapolis mental hospital after blacking out for a year. One novel ends when this son of a senatordodges the takeover attempt of Norman Mushari by adopting fifty-seven children, making them theheirs of his namesake foundation. In another novel, this character is the (*) number one fan of KilgoreTrout and introduces Billy Pilgrim to science fiction. For 10 points, name this Kurt Vonnegut characterwho appears in Breakfast of Champions, Slaughterhous-Five, and a novel whose title begins God Bless You.
Eliot Rosewater [or Mr. Rosewater]
8

104076-)
One character in this poem fantasizes about "the fitful tracing of a portal" and searches "the touch of springs," sighingafter finding only "concealed imaginings." One group in this poem whispers a refrain that "was like a willow swept byrain." Its fourth section observes that "the body dies; the body's beauty lives, so evenings die in their green going...sogardens die, their meek breath scenting...so maidens die, to the auroral." In this poem, several "simpering Byzantines"arrive and flee "with a noise like (*) tambourines." Its speaker opines that "desiring you, thinking of your blue-shadowed silk, Ismusic," like how the "thin blood" of the elders "pulse pizzicati" as they lust after Susanna. Its speaker observes that "the selfsamesounds / On my spirit make a music," "just as my fingers on these keys." For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poemnarrated by one of the performers of Pyramus and Thisbe in A Midsummer Night's Dream.
"Peter Quince at the Clavier" 
9

104090-)
One character in this novel briefly loses her son Wilder while listening to a lecture about thespiritual power of supermarkets. Another of its characters plays chess by mail with the killer TommyRoy Foster. The protagonist of this work visits "the Most Photographed Barn in America" with hisfriend Murray. The central family of this novel includes Heinrich, Steffie, and Denise, and they areforced to evacuate the town of Blacksmith after a (*) train derailing. Its protagonist shoots Willie Minkafter learning that his wife Babette had been sleeping with him in exchange for tablets of the drug Dylar.The narrator of this novel is a professor of Hitler studies who experiences the Airborne Toxic Event. For 10points, name this novel about Jack Gladney which was written by Don DeLillo.
White Noise
8

104096-)
This work was written according to what its author called the "Final (and Right) Plan." Theauthor of this work describes his furor at the countess who rented him the Italian villa where his wifeLivy died. Its author relates how he and his brother Orion squandered their inheritance of thousandsof acres of oil-rich land. This work was originally edited by Albert Bigelow Paine, and describes itssubject's poor investments in a typesetter called the Paige Compositor. The author of this workasked that much of its contents be (*) withheld for one hundred years after his death, which led theUniversity of California Press to put out the first volume of an edition that became a surprise 2010bestseller. For 10 points, name these memoirs written by the author of "The Man That CorruptedHadleyburg" and Huck Finn.
Autobiography of Mark Twain [or Mark Twain's autobiography; accept equivalents] 015-11-
8

104106-)
This man wrote a poem about a man who once "had a Roman nose" and a cheek like a rose, butnow looks silly because of the "old three-cornered hat, and the breeches, and all that." That poemwas inspired by Thomas Melvill and titled "The Last Leaf." He wrote another poem about an objectwhich "No more shall feel the victor's tread, or know the conquered knee." He called one object "theventurous bark that flings on the sweet summer wind its purpled wings" in a poem which includesthe line (*) "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul." Another of his poems includes theadmonishment "the harpies of the shore shall pluck the eagle of the sea!" and was written to protest thedecommissioning of the USS Constitution. For 10 points, name this American poet of "The ChamberedNautilus" and "Old Ironsides."
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
8

104111-)
One character in this story imagines all classes of people being crammed together in a box car, "being ridden off to be putinto a gas oven," and continually pictures Jesus offering her two, and later three, options for who to be in life. Thatcharacter in this story routinely gives her black servants ice-water for the sake of "buttering" them up. In this story, thebook Human Development is read by the Wellesley student Mary Grace, who, after the main character thanks Jesus forher gratitude at the way things are, (*) tosses it at her forehead, begins to choke her, and tells her "to go back to hell where youcame from, you old wart-hog!" Along with "Judgment Day" and "Parker's Back," this was one of the final three stories its authorwrote before succumbing to lupus. In this story, Claud and his wife go to a cramped doctor's waiting room to have his ulcerexamined. For 10 points, name this Flannery O'Connor story in which Mrs. Turpin experiences an epiphany.
"Revelation"
9

104128-)
In this poem's third section, birds build "peaceful, aerial cities of joy" while a man bitterly cries "Must I relinquish it all,the joy, the hope, the illusion?" Earlier in this poem, a man praises Caesar's campaign in Gaul, concluding from it that "ifyou wish a thing to be well done, you must do it yourself." In a section named for the "march" of this poem's titlecharacter, a woman is horrified at the presentation of a bloody head as a trophy. This poem compares a natural feature to"a doorstep / Into a world unknown,Â—-the (*) cornerstone of a nation!" One character in this poem is interrupted whendescribing his friend when his a woman asks him "Why don't you speak for yourself, John?" The title character of this poem, thewidower of Rose, is presumed dead by a poisoned Indian arrow, but survives to give his blessing to John and Priscilla Alden. For10 points, name this poem about a love triangle in Plymouth Colony, written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
"The Courtship of Miles Standish"
9

104136-)
One character in this novel repeatedly neglects to read a love letter for her attached to a tea kettle and finally wins thelottery after repeatedly betting on 31. One parable in this work is that of a girl who escapes from a lark by telling it thatshe has left her heart at home. The main character has a recurring nightmare in which her mother, idealized as the VirginMary, chases her through a field of daffodils, a foreshadowing of her mother's horrific nightmares every night. Theprotagonist of this novel marries the saxophonist Joseph several years after narrowly escaping from a city-wide riot toboard a plane to (*) New York. Martine repeatedly stabs herself to avoid bringing a baby to term in this novel, in which she testsher daughter's virginity by placing a finger in her vagina, a trial she herself had earlier failed after being raped in the cane fieldsby a Tonton Macoute. For 10 points, name this novel about Sophie Caco's life in and out of Haiti, written by Edwidge Danticat.
Breath, Eyes, Memory
9

104140-)
In this novel, the protagonist's waiter at a restaurant was once raped by a man who died while playing football on Thanksgiving Day. The narrator compares that man's penis size to the penis size of Harry LeSabre and the two main characters. While the protagonist of this novel is sitting alone in a parking lot, Mary Young is dying in a hospital with only Cyprian Ukwende by her side. The protagonist of this novel beats his son and wife, because he believes a book he reads which tells him that he is the only one with free will. The protagonist's object of obsession is a writer who appears in other works by the same author. For 10 points, name this novel that takes place in Midland City and centers on Dwayne Hoover's obsession over Kilgore Trout's writings, a work of Kurt Vonnegut.
Breakfast of Champions
7

104178-)
. The protagonist of this novel meets a woman when he is saying lines by Poe while she is saying lines by Verlaine in the middle of a storm. The protagonist is asked by a friend to visit a relative named Clara and ends up falling in love with her. The main character tries to build up a reputation in school by playing football, but he soon gets injured. One love interest of the protagonist, who almost commits suicide by riding a horse off a cliff, is named Eleanor Savage. The protagonist of this novel fails to marry Rosalind Connage because of his financial troubles, and he also finds out at the end that his friend Monsignor Darcy is dead. For 10 points, identify this novel about the rather unhappy life of the Princeton student Amory Blaine, by F. Scott Fitzgerald
This Side of Paradise 
7

104186-)
This author wrote the lines, "nothing ever taught us to be islands," in a poem about soldiers who "holler down lions in the air." One of this writer's characters cries, "It was you who threw away my name!," in a poem about the desire to create "if not a note, a hole." This poet of "Gay Chaps at the Bar" and "Boy Breaking Glass" defied Richard Wright by publishing a poem that concludes, "Believe me, I loved you all," and begins, "Abortions will not let you forget," entitled "the mother." Lukewarm bath-water is contrasted with a dream that floats up through "onion fumes," "fried potatoes," and "yesterday's garbage ripening in the hall" in this author's "kitchenette building." This writer of Annie Allen and A Street in Bronzeville put hesitations after the word "we" in a poem about characters who "jazzed june" and "die soon." For ten points, name this poet who wrote "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Brooks
7

104211-)
A novel by this writer is often paired with his brother Clifford's Thorn Fruit, published in the same year, while his 1880 non-fiction work entitled The Science of English Verse reflects a strong interested in music, as in the tale of Lady Horn and other personified instruments, "The Symphony." This author of Tiger-Lilies wrote, "The Creeks overflow" and "a thousand rivulets run twixt the roots of the sod" in his "The Marshes of Glynn." For 10 points, name this Confederate veteran and Macon, Georgia native who made his living as a flautist but also claimed that he is "fain for to water the plain" in his poem "The Song of the Chattahoochee." 
Sidney Lanier
7

104218-)
In one of her novels, characters based on actual people include the alcoholic professor Wunsch and Dr. Howard Archie, and the novel opens in Moonstone, Colorado, where the mandolin player Spanish Johnny lives. A protagonist of this author is moved by a Julie Breton painting and has an epiphany at Panther Canyon. In addition to the story of aspiring opera star Thea Kronborg, this author wrote about Joseph Vaillaint's journey through the New Mexican desert with Jean Latour, and Carl Linstrum's love for Alexandra Bergson. For 10 points, name this writer of Song of the Lark, Death Comes For the Archbishop, and O Pioneers! 
Willa Cather
7

104237-)
This author remembers an overheard airplane conversation about a child born into a primitive tribe who can answer any question, in the story "Another Pioneer." In a longer work, this writer included David Cusk, whose intense fear of sweating causes constant sweating, and a former wastoid who studies all night and treks through the snow to a recruiting office, "Irrelevant" Chris Fogle. President Johnny Gentle and the war-game Eschaton feature in one of his novels, which follows Don Gately's stay at the clinic Ennet House and Hal Incandenza's time at the Enfield Tennis Academy. The essay "E Unibas Plurum" and a book about the tedium experienced by IRS auditors were written by this figure who wrote about "The Entertainment," a dangerously addictive video cartridge. For 10 points, name this author of The Pale King and Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace
7

104244-)
One character in this play recounts being cheated out of his farm by Jim Stovall, and later resolves to go back to Natchez and reclaim it. Another character in this play deliberately cuts her legs with a razor in order to prevent men from approaching her. This play takes place during the funeral of Prophet Samuel, and opens with the arrival of a man recently released from the penitentiary, who later takes Holloway's advice to see Aunt Ester. It ends with the death of a character who painted a fence for the butcher Lutz years ago, but received a chicken instead of a promised ham, causing him to ominously insist "I want my ham." Risa agrees to attend a Malcolm X rally with Sterling in this play, which is set in Memphis Lee's diner in 1969. Taking place between Fences and Jitney in its author's Pittsburgh Cycle, for 10 points, name this play by August Wilson.
Two Trains Running
8

104265-)
In A Moveable Feast, Hemingway recalls encountering the "Measuring Worm" while teaching thisman how to box. This poet ended one work by noting "Let those I love try to forgive what I havemade," after claiming "I have tried to write Paradise." He chose Simon the Zealot as the narrator ofhis poem which attacks images of a frail Jesus in saying "No mouse of the scrolls was the GoodlyFere." This man popularized his friend's poem (*) "Oread" by claiming it was emblematic of Vorticism,a movement whose name he coined. He wrote the lines "The apparition of these faces in the crowd; Petalson a wet, black bough." For 10 points, name this author whose two line poem "In a Station of the Metro"exemplifies the Imagist movement, the Nazi-sympathizing author of The Cantos.
Ezra Pound
8

104273-)
The protagonist of this work remembers an Italian clerk named Molica, who had wanted to see California before he died. This story opens with a montage of images in its brief section "Sleep,"which is followed by a longer section titled "Wakefulness." The protagonist of this story finds a penny, which he examines in depth and regrets not giving to a child. That protagonist steals paper from the (*) San Francisco YMCA to write An Application for Permission to Live. After the central character of this story unsuccessfully looks for a job at several employment agencies and department stores,he is unable to afford any food and dies of hunger. The protagonist of this story thinks of a song with the lyrics "he'd fly through the air with the greatest of ease." For 10 points, name this short story by William Saroyan.
"The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze"
8

104295-)
This novel prompted a heated debate between its author and Herbert Aptheker in the pages ofThe Nation. One of its characters teaches himself to read with John Bunyan's The Life and Death ofMr. Badman. Its title character has stones thrown at him as he baptizes Ethelred Brantley. Theprotagonist of this work watches as his mother Lou Ann is raped by McBride, and fends off a sexualassault from the Baptist preacher Reverend Eppes. That protagonist has his commitment to celibacytested by Margaret Whitehead, whom he kills after being called weak by Will. The protagonist of thisnovel (*) tells his story to his court appointed lawyer T.R. Gray as he awaits his execution in SouthamptonCounty For 10 points, name this William Styron novel about the leader of a Virginia slave rebellion.
The Confessions of Nat Turner
8

104302-)
In one episode from this work, Merselis Van Giesen melts his cufflinks so he can shoot the witchwho harasses his wife in the form of a cat. Its fourth part opens with a pastoral idyll involvingCorydon and Phyllis. This work's second section is subtitled "Sunday in the Park," and includes itsauthor's first use of the "triadic line" in the poem "The Descent." Its first section, "TheDelineaments of Giants," twice includes the command "Say it! No ideas but in things." Before beingexpanded to five books, this work had four books which charted a waterfall, a (*) river below andabove the falls, and the river's exit into the sea. It opens by noting that the title town "lies in a valley underthe Passaic Falls." For 10 points, name this prose and verse epic about a New Jersey town by WilliamCarlos Williams.
Paterson
8

104305-)
The protagonist of this novel has a cousin named Gilbert who looks just like him, and is left somebooks by Miller Nicholson. One character in this novel plays her lovers off each other to buy anexpensive coat and is named Hortense Briggs. While he is employed as a bellhop at theGreen-Davidson Hotel, the protagonist of this novel rides in a limousine which runs over a girl. Afterthe protagonist moves to Lycurgus to work in his uncle's factory, he pursues the wealthy (*) SondraFinchley. This novel was inspired by the real life case of Chester Gillette. After attempts to secure anabortion are unsuccessful, the protagonist of this work rows Roberta Alden out into Big Bittern Lake anddrowns her. For 10 points, name this naturalist novel about the downfall of Clyde Griffiths, a work ofTheodore Dreiser.
An American Tragedy
8

104318-)
This author defined poetry as a "vital necessity of existence" for women in "Poetry is Not a Luxury." She linked the erotic with unexpressed female power in her essay "Uses of the Erotic: The Erotic as Power," and recounted her battle with breast cancer in her Cancer Journals. This author described growing up among a group of outcasts who called themselves "the Branded" in a book she termed a "biomythography." This author of the poetry collection The Black Unicorn wrote the essay "The Master's Tools Will Never Dismantle the Master's House," as well as a book describing her decision to remove the letter Y from her first name. For 10 points, name this African-American feminist author of Sister Outsider and Zami: A New Spelling of My Name.
Audre Lorde
8

104340-)
This author wrote a story in which a farmer and his wife seal up a cave where their children discover an embalmed corpse,and the title character of that story dies of heart failure after refusing a cup of mineral water from Mary Golfe. In another story, a character with a greenish skin resembling a serpent repeatedly shouts "It gnaws me!" before he is cured by his wife Rosina. This author described Richard Digby in "The Man of Adamant" and wrote another work about sculptor George Herkimer visiting Roderick Elliston who claims to have a snake living in his bosom. This author wrote a story in which Robin encounters a man with a painted face at the head of a tarring-and-feathering mob. This author of "Egotism" wrote a story with an anecdote about a beautiful woman sent to Alexander the Great as a gift, which ends with Professor Baglioni berating a scientist for making Beatrice poisonous. For 10 points, name this author of the stories "My Kinsman, Major Molineux" and "Rappaccini's Daughter."
Nathaniel Hawthorne
8

104364-)
This character's mother reveals that she deliberately killed her child with laudanum while holding him in her arms. Frances Harper's poem about this character compares her to "a fawn from the arrow, startled and wild." In the chapter "In Which it Appears That a Senator is But a Man," she is taken to John Van Trompe by Senator Bird. She eventually reunites with her mother Cassy, and is sheltered by Simeon and Rachel Halliday. This character is pursued by Marks and Tom Loker, who is pushed off a cliff by her husband, George. She runs away after learning that Mr. Haley has purchased her son Harry from George Shelby. For 10 points, name this slave who escapes to freedom across the frozen Ohio River in Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Eliza Harris [or Liza Harris; prompt on Harris] 
8

104373-)
This character declares "deciding not to be a bitch" is "what we have instead of a God" after calling another character to meet at the Hotel Montana. This character's fiancÃ© insultingly calls another character a "steer" for following them to San Sebastian. At the end of the novel she appears in, her claim "we could have had such a damned good time together" is undermined by the narrator's response "Isn't it pretty to think so?" This character is engaged to Mike Campbell, and her brief fling with the Jewish boxer Robert Cohn ends disastrously when he brutally beats her current lover Pedro Romero the night before fighting in a bullring in Pamplona. For 10 points, name this English femme fatale who loves the impotent Jake Barnes in Hemingway's novel The Sun Also Rises.
Lady Brett Ashley [or Lady Brett Ashley]
8

104422-)
In one story by this author, Napoleon Bonaparte Froissart accidentally proposes to hisgreat-great grandmother because he is too embarrassed to wear his glasses to the opera. He wrote ofa woman who dies while her husband obsessively paints a realistic picture of her. This author of"The Spectacles" wrote about a story in which a man uses a poisoned candle to murder a voraciousreader and blames it on the title phenomenon. He wrote a work in which Egaeus becomes obsessedwith the (*) teeth of his title cousin, even digging them up after she dies. The narrator of another story bythis author reads about a dragon-killing knight named Ethelred in The Mad Trist after visiting his boyhoodfriend Roderick. For 10 points, name this author of "The Imp of the Perverse," "Berenice," and "The Fallof the House of Usher."
Edgar Allen Poe
8

104434-)
This character meets the Lord Prestongrange to help acquit his friend, but he fails and that friend, James,  is sentenced to death. This character is told by a ship captain that he should cross Morven and speak to John of the Claymore in order to find another of his friends. This character declines a card game offered by Cluny Macphearson, but his friend gambles and loses their money. The sequel to the first novel in which this character appears is titled for the daughter of James Drummond with whom he falls in love. This man is a close companion of Alan Breck in both novels in which this character appears. For 10 points, identify this protagonist and narrator of Robert Louis Stevenson's novels Catriona and Kidnapped.
David Balfour
7

104443-)
This work notes the superiority of a morning-glory at a window to "the metaphysics of books," and its speaker claims to "beat and pound for the dead" with cornets and drums. One figure in this work "hides handsome and richly drest" behind a window, while its second section begins with a dismissal of perfumes in favour of natural smells. The speaker calls himself "divine ... inside and out" in this poem before inviting the reader to come loaf on the grass and later claiming sound a "barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world." This poem claims, "Every atom belonging to me as good as belongs to you," and its narrator comfortably admits to contradicting himself, since he is large and contains multitudes. Including a woman who spies on 29 bathers and some very extensive catalogues of American life, for ten points, name this 52-part celebration of "I," "you," and America, a poem by Walt Whitman.
Song of Myself
7

104453-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

104484-)
The narrator of this book is terrified by the prospect of having his face tattooed by Karky, exclaiming "What an object he would have made of me!" Its narrator teaches a young boy how to make bamboo pop-guns, and donates his old shoes to the warrior Marheyo, who wears them around his neck. The narrator of this book participates in the feast of calabashes, and is attended to by Kory-Kory. It describes a society at war with Happar, whose members include King Mehevi and the beautiful Fayaway. The narrator encounters that society after escaping inland with Toby, is nicknamed "Tommo," and escapes after discovering evidence of cannibalism. Describing its author's captivity on the island of Nukuheva, it is subtitled "a peep at Polynesian life." For 10 points, name this first book by Herman Melville, an account of the title society which was followed by its sequel, Omoo.
Typee: A Peep at Polynesian Life
8

104498-)
One of this author's plays opens in a Paris hotel room and centers on John and Claire Shelby. In another of this man's plays, the characters from the fairy tales of Mother Goose are forced into child labor. This author of The Left Bank and The House in Blind Alley wrote a play about the tendency of Georgina Allerton to daydream. He criticized Nazism in Judgment Day, and wrote a play in which the main character refuses to run away with Sam Kaplan. One of this author's protagonists is sentenced to death and goes on to meet Lieutenant Charles, the boss of the Elysian fields. That character, Mr. Zero, kills his boss after learning that his job is being replaced by the title object. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Street Scene and The Adding Machine.
Elmer Rice
8

104500-)
Robert Lowell's marginally racist review of this work condemned its "negro minstrelsy." One section of this work discusses "Our wounds to time, from all the other times," and includes a dialogue that begins "are you radioactive, pal?" Its final section declares "Everywhere in enormous numbers turkeys will be dying" and begins "My daughter's heavier." This work includes "A strut for Roethke" and "The lay of Ike," as well as a poem declaring "life, friends, is boring. We must not say so." The twenty-ninth section of this collection begins "There sat down, once, a thing" on its main character's heart. Inspired by the suicide of its author's father, this collection originally included 77 poems, was expanded in His Toy, His Dream, His Rest, and focuses on the author's alter ego Henry. For 10 points, name this collection of 385 poems by John Berryman.
The Dream Songs
8

104527-)
One character in this play is mockingly called "the Mother of Middle-Class itself," and reveals that her husband Fred is cheating on her. Another character in this play idealizes his wife as wild "Mountain Girl," and is devastated when she leaves him to act in television commercials. This play was originally named for Jenny Reed, and centers on a character haunted by the death of Sal Peretti, who uses the money from the sale of his failed nightclub Walden Pond to start a newspaper. At the end of this play, the prostitute Gloria dies of an overdose after being rejected by her fiancee Alton Scales, and the title character vows to fight the politician Wally O'Hara before reconciling with his wife Iris. Set in a Greenwich Village apartment, for 10 points, name this play about a Jewish intellectual written by Lorraine Hansberry.
The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window
8

104555-)
One character in this novel is based on its author's former husband John Koontz, and frequently consults the book Recreational Aspects of Sex as a Mental Prophylaxis. Another character in this novel brings high quality beef broth to a vomiting bulldog named Bebe. Hutten, the owner of the aforementioned bulldog, watches Father Garza resign himself to the fate of Echegaray, despite Dr. Schumann's hopeful extraction of a stethoscope. William Denney and David Scott are two of the Americans in this novel, which traces the genesis of Nazism through its characters Frau Rittersdorf, Herr Baumgartner, and Captain Thiele. Inspired by a 15th century satire by Sebastian Brant, for 10 points, name this allegorical novel set on a voyage to Spain, written by Katherine Anne Porter.
Ship of Fools
8

104563-)
In one of this author's novels, Al Condraj imagines a future life of crime after his attempts to steal a ten cent hammer at Woolworth's are foiled. The protagonist of a short story by this author dreams of a magnified flower twice the size of the universe, considers visiting a Salvation Army kitchen, and plans to write a book called An Application for Permission to Live. This author of The Parsley Garden wrote a play in which Willie constantly feeds nickels into a pinball machine before winning the jackpot and Kitty Duval is harassed by the policeman Blick. That play is set in Nick's Pacific Street Saloon. He included his story "The Summer of the Beautiful White Horse" in his collection My Name is Aram. For 10 points, name this Armenian-American author of "The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze" and The Time of Your Life.
William Saroyan
8

104603-)
Geoffrey Stokes accused this author of plagiarizing one of his novels from The Career ofNicodemus Dyzma. The protagonist of that novel loses his job after the death of the Old Man and istaken in by the Rand family after being run over by Elizabeth Eve. The protagonist of another of hisnovels befriends Mitka and Gavrila in the Soviet army after going mute. The former novel by thisauthor depicts the gardener (*) Chance, who becomes an advisor to the president despite knowingnothing except what he has seen on television. The protagonist of the latter novel by this author is a six yearold boy who witnesses countless atrocities while wandering from village to village in World War II Europe.For 10 points, name this Polish-American novelist of Being There and The Painted Bird.
Jerzy Kosinski
8

104622-)
In this work, the quirky Standard Oil employee Joe Welling surprises everyone by marryingSarah King and forming a local baseball team. A drunken man's rant about the perfect womancauses a seven year old in this work to change her name to "Tandy." Another of its characters isEnoch Robinson, whose coterie of imaginary friends all leave him when he meets a girl. In this work,a telegraph operator named (*) Wash Williams acquires a negative view of women after his wife cheatson him and his mother-in-law approaches him without wearing clothes. The protagonist has a crush onHelen White and his schoolteacher Kate Swift, and works at a newspaper called The Eagle. It also includesa story about the dexterous hands of Wing Bittlebaum, who flees to escape accusations of molestation. For10 points, name this novel about George Willard and the other residents of a small town by SherwoodAnderson.
Winesburg, Ohio
8

104623-)
This poet asked "why should this flower delay so long to show its tremulous plumes?" in "TheLast Chrysanthemum." Another of his poems ends when "the Spinner of the Years said 'Now!'" andthe title event "jars two hemispheres." He wrote of "tangled bine-stems" which "scored the sky likestrings of broken lyres" in a poem written on the dawn of the twentieth century. One of his poemsconcerns the disturbance of "Stourton Tower, and Camelot, and starlit Stonehenge" when (*) "thatnight your great guns, unawares, shook all our coffins as we lay." This poet wrote about the Titanic in "TheConvergence of the Twain" and the inexplicably joyfull call of the title bird in a poem which begins "I leantupon a coppice gate." For 10 points, name this author of "Channel-Firing" and "The Darkling Thrush," whoalso wrote novels like The Mayor of Casterbridge.
Thomas Hardy
8

104624-)
This author noted that "the flower fared forth, though its fragrance still stays" after comparinglife to "a stream on which we strew" the title objects in the poem "Petals." This poet's relationshipwith the actress Ada Dwyer Russell inspired the sequence of forty three poems called "Two SpeakTogether." The narrator of one of this poet's works reads a letter which says "Madam, we regret toinform you that Lord Hartwell died in action Thursday." That poem includes the repeated image ofthe "stiff, brocaded gown" and ends by asking "Christ! What are [the title constructs] for?" Shewrote about "false blue, white, purple" (*) flowers that are "under all the soil of New England" in apoem collected in A Dome of Many Colored Glass. For 10 points, name this Imagist author of "Patterns"and "Lilacs" who came from a prominent family of New England poets.
Amy Lowell
8

104648-)
Early in this work, the narrator describes being forced to take a shower as though he was being raped, and that character later sees a dog running toward an oncoming car on the highway, presumably to its death. The narrator recalls an his father being pressured by his community to sell some land to build a hydroelectric dam. One character in this novel almost sleeps with a woman for the first time but is stopped by a threat to tell his mother. The prostitute Candy, who is found with Billy Bibbit, had been brought into the narrator's residence by a character who earlier tried to start a vote to hear the world series. By ripping off her shirt, vulnerability is shown in the overseer of Randle P. McMurphy, but this action earns him a lobotomy. For 10 points, name this novel in which Nurse Ratched terrorizes the inmates of an asylum, narrated by Chief Bromden and written by Ken Kesey.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
7

104675-)
In one of her works, a flat tire causes a character to announce, "Pass the butter to the victim," and Mrs. May is ultimately killed by an animal on the farm. In addition to "Greenleaf," this author wrote a short story in which a boy knocks over a woman and breaks her ankle, and his grandfather Mr. Head denies being related to avoid paying the medical bill. One of her novels is about the teenage preacher from Powderhead, Francis Marion Tarwater, while another features Enoch Emery's theft of "the new jesus" and the fake blind man Asa Hawks. For 10 points, name this writer of The Violent Bear It Away and "Good Country People," who created Hazel Motes in Wise Blood. 
Flannery O'Connor
7

104709-)
In the last scene of this play, one of its characters realizes that "Everything becomes too late, finally." One character in this play belts out insults while playing minor chords on her accordion, and delivers a monologue about her attempt to buy a topless swimsuit. Its first act begins with a woman discussing the possibility of suddenly going mad before her daughter returns home from her fourth divorce. In its second act, Julia brandishes a gun in an attempt to reclaim her room from two characters who show up in its first act seeking refuge from their sudden, nameless terror. Set in a suburban dining room, its characters include the alcoholic Claire, as well as Harry and Edna, who attempt to move in with the middle-aged couple Tobias and Agnes, upsetting the title condition. For 10 points, name this play which won the 1967 Pulitzer Prize for its author, Edward Albee.
A Delicate Balance
8

104719-)
This man converted to Catholicism after long correspondences with Jacques Maritain and GeraldVann, and as a result advised Francois Poulenc on the content of Dialogues of the Carmelites. His latework Follow the Ecstasy is a partial biography of Thomas Merton. Earlier, while suffering a decadeof blindness following World War II injuries, he wrote the novels Nuni and The Devil Rides Outside.In his best-known work, which was originally published in the magazine Sepia and forced him intoexile in Mexico, he describes revealing his true name to (*) Hattiesville newspaper editor P.D. East andbeing asked while hitchhiking if he was an "inexhaustible sex-machine." Prior to writing that work, heshaved his hands and underwent a ten-day regiment of methoxsalen ingestion and ultraviolent lighttreatment before travelling through Georgia, Alabama, and Mississippi. For 10 points, name this activistwho dyed his skin and travelled the South as a black man in order to write Black Like Me.
John Howard Griffin
8

104752-)
One of this author's title characters warns his son of the undertow at the beach, which his son imagines to be a monstrous creature, the "Under Toad". Another of this author's title characters kills the mother with "THE BEST BREASTS OF ALL THE MOTHERS," Tabitha, by hitting her with a foul ball in a little league baseball game. This author created a man who had been conceived by a dying ball turret gunner and Jenny Fields, a feminist nurse, and John Wheelwright narrates this author's novel about an eccentric dwarf. For 10 points, name this American author of The World According to Garp and A Prayer for Owen Meany.
John Irving
7

104756-)
The last story in this collection is a set of sketches describing a soldier who becomes the "Dog-King" of Barrington Isle as reward for his part in Peruvian War of Independence and the abandoned wife of a French Captain named Hunilla who becomes the "Chola Widow." In another story, the automaton Una is carved by the artist Bannadonna for the belfry of the clock in the title building, which collapses at the end. Another story climaxes when a canvas covering a figurehead inscribed with the phrase "follow your leader" reveals the skeleton of Alexandro Aranda. Stories entitled "The Lightning-Rod Man" and "The Bell-Tower" are found in this collection, as well as a set of ten sketches, The Encantadas, and a story in which Captain Amasa Delano discovers that Babo led a secret slave mutiny on the San Dominick. FTP, name this short story collection featuring "Benito Cereno" and "Bartleby the Scrivener" by Herman Melville. 
The Piazza Tales [prompt on The Encantadas before "The Lightning- Rod Man"] 
9

104762-)
The narrator of this work claims that he begins to understand what Lionel Trilling meant by "culture is a prison" when he's unable to write a letter to his wife in Hattiesburg. Earlier, that narrator meets at the Y Coffee Shop with A. L. Davis and J. P. Guillory.  He notices the book For Men of Good Will written by Father Robert Guste sitting on a coffee table, after he meets with Sam Gandy, the dean of Dillard College. Near the beginning, the narrator surprises Sterling Williams during a shoeshine in New Orleans. He does not listen to the warnings of Adele Jackson and George Levitan, who operate Sepia magazine, a publication that finances the narrator's project, which he prepares for by taking methoxsalen and sitting under an ultraviolet lamp. FTP, name this book by John Howard Griffin, which chronicles his travels passing as a black man. 
Black Like Me
9

104777-)
This author wrote a story about the con-man Earl, whose stolen car overheats, forcing his family to seek help in a trailer park in the title Wyoming town; that story titles his collection Rock Springs. In one of his novels, the title character refuses to reach out to fellow Divorced Men's Club member Walter Luckett, who commits suicide as a result; the death of that character's son from Reye's Syndrome causes his divorce from his wife "X."  In another of his novels, the juvenile condom thief Paul lets a pitching machine hit him at the Baseball Hall of Fame while on a two-day road trip with his father. The Lay of the Land is the final novel in his trilogy about New Jersey real estate agent Frank Bascombe. For 10 points, name this contemporary American author of The Sportswriter and Independence Day.
Richard Ford
8

104798-)
One character in this play recalls looking up at the sky and asking "what is the stars?" That character hides a sausage he's cooking when he hears the knock of a man asking if he wants to buy a sewing machine. Other characters in this play include Johnny, an armless boy who thinks he sees the ghost of a fellow revolutionary he betrayed, Robbie Tancred. The main plot of this play is set in motion when the protagonist is convinced that he is inheriting two thousand pounds from Will Benson by Charlie Bentham, who later impregnates and abandons his daughter Mary. Throughout this play, its protagonist constantly gets drunk with Joxer Daly. For 10 points, name this play by Sean O'Casey about the long-suffering wife of the strutting Captain Jack Boyle. 
Juno and the Paycock
8

104806-)
One of this author's protagonists reads about a colleague giving mouth-to-mouth resuscitation to a monkey with tuberculosis. That character later sneaks out of the house of a woman he saved from being stabbed by her husband Erikson, and receives a letter from Geraldine Portnoy describing his daughter being locked in a car. Another of this author's characters burst into uncontrollable tears during the funeral of a stranger after being refused help by his father Dr. Adler. This author wrote a short novel about a character who is conned into a scheme to invest in lard by Dr. Tamkin. Another of his protagonists mulls over his divorce from Madeleine and his betrayal by Valentine Gerbasch, while writing letters he never sends to various celebrities. For 10 points, name this American novelist of Seize the Day and Herzog. 
Saul Bellow
8

104832-)
This author wrote of the Yale-graduate Michael Milton, who writes "I want to be your lover" on aquestionnaire to his graduate advisor Helen, in a novel that opens by describing the movie theaterassault of a soldier by Jenna Fields. After Rose Rose stabs her father Arthur in a novel by this man,Homer Wells takes over the orphanage of Dr. (*) Larch, a decased abortionist. In another of his novels,the title character hates the German short story "The Poor Fiddler" by the Austrian author of The Jewessof Toledo but names his masterpiece "The Pension Grillparzer" anyway. He set novels such as A Widowfor One Year and The Hotel New Hampshire in his home state. For 10 points, name this American authorof The Cider House Rules and The World According to Garp.
 John Irving
8

104835-)
A poem addressed by this man to William Carlos Williams speaks of delivering "infinite babies"and of having "Too many page-proofs to read." A woman who "might as well be on Mars" "fills hercompact and delicious body/with Chicken Paprika" in another poem by him. This poet concludes thathe has no "Inner Resources" in a poem where he admits that (*) "Life, friends, is boring." The firstpoem in that cycle by him ends with empty beds and describes the world as "like a woolen lover" andthe "unappeasable" title character "pried open for all to see." For 10 points, name this poet, whosecharacter Henry appears in The Dream Songs, and who wrote "Homage to Mistress Bradstreet".
 John Berryman
8

104861-)
One character in this play says to another, "If Beethoven had been killed in a plane crash at 22, thehistory of music would have been very different. As would the history of aviation, of course." In anargument between its main couple over music, the man opts for The Monkees and Pink Floyd and thewoman for Bach, and the play later ends as "I'm a Believer" is heard. One character in this play is castin a production of John (*) Ford's 'Tis Pity She's a Whore, after which she begins an affair with her costarBilly. The male lead of this play is alarmed about teenage Debbie's cynicism and his ex-wifeCharlotte's reveal of past infidelities, but regains peace after Annie throws dip in ex-convict Brodie'sface. For 10 points, name this play about playwright Henry, written by Tom Stoppard.
The Real Thing
8

104878-)
This author wrote a story in which the main character is engaged to Mr. Mudge but fanciesCaptain Count Philip Everard while working as a telegraph operator; that story by him is "In the Cage."A novel by this author features the spurned suitor Matthias Pardon and a love triangle between Olive,Basil, and Verena, who is a (*) feminist. This author, who created the Tarrant and Chancellor families,also wrote a novel in which Claire de Cintre becomes a nun instead of marrying the Parisian vacationerChristopher Newman. For 10 points, name this author of The Bostonians and The American, anAmerican-British expatriate who also wrote The Portrait of a Lady and The Turn of the Screw.
Henry James
8

104888-)
This character's father tells him that "Christ was not crucified: he was worn away by a minute clicking of little wheels." This character narrates a story in which his father is indifferent to Nancy's crippling fear of her husband, Jesus. This narrator of "That Evening Sun" appears in a novel in which he is assaulted by Julio for befriending a young Italian girl he calls "sister." He punches Gerald Bland after remembering the time he threatened to kill Dalton Ames for seducing his sister, whose daughter is named for him. Along with his roommate Shreve, he reconstructs the history of the Sutpen family, before drowning in the Charles River in 1910. For 10 points, name this character who narrates Absalom, Absalom! and the second section of The Sound and the Fury, the oldest brother of Jason, Benjy, and Caddy Compson.
Quentin Compson [prompt on Compson]
8

104931-)
This poet opened an elegy to her father David with the line "A dryness is upon the house". Thetitle character states "I'd like to live in the country, and spread my arms all day" in this author'spoem "Rudolph Is Tired of the City". Faith Ringgold illustrated a book by this author set in aneighborhood that also titled her first poetry collection, A Street in (*) Bronzeville. This poet includedthe sections "Notes from Childhood and Girlhood" and the mock epic "The Anniad" in one of hercollections and described people who "lurk late", "strike straight" and "sing sin" in a poem about some poolplayers who "die soon". For 10 points, name this African-American poet of Annie Allen and "We RealCool".
Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks
5

104952-)
One of this author's plays features a scene in which one character is challenged to lift a chair overhis head; that character fails, but Marco succeeds. In that play by this man, the discovery thatRodolfo is romantically involved with Catherine angers the protagonist, an Italian-Americanlongshoreman. In another of his plays, a storm blows over a tree memorializing Larry, who died inWorld War II due to faulty (*) airplane parts manufactured by his father Joe Keller. Thomas Putnam isaccused of "reaching for land" by Giles Corey in a play by this man in which Abigail Williams and theslave Tituba are accused of witchcraft. For 10 points, name this playwright of A View From the Bridge, AllMy Sons, and The Crucible.
Arthur Asher Miller
5

104967-)
This author wrote a story in which the protagonist claims his mother is an "angel of Gawd" to ahitchhiker, who responds by saying "my old woman is a flea bag." In that story, the protagonistmarries Lucynell, but abandons her at a restaurant on their honeymoon. That story ends with TomShiftlet driving into a rainstorm after reading the title (*) phrase on a billboard. This author also wrotea story in which a car accident is caused by a cat named Pitty Sing on a trip to Florida. That story by thisauthor ends with an entire family, including a grandmother, being slain by an escaped criminal called theMisfit. For 10 points, name this Southern Gothic author of such stories as "The Life You Save May BeYour Own" and "A Good Man is Hard to Find".
Flannery O'Connor [or Mary Flannery O'Connor]
5

104974-)
A foundation named in reference to this play opened a center in Bukavu, DR Congo, called City ofJoy. Robert Swope was fired from the Georgetown Hoya for criticizing the positive portrayal of arape in this play. Testimony from Bosnian war crime survivors makes up part of this play, and itsother sections include the account of a grandchild's birth in "I Was There in the Room," a reflectionon an offstage character named (*) Bob entitled "Because He Liked to Look At It," and "I Was Twelve,My Mother Slapped Me," about menstruation. This play is performed worldwide on "V-Day." For 10points, name this play by Eve Ensler in which women talk about their anatomy.
The Vagina Monologues
8

105021-)
One scene in this work shows the protagonist presenting silver coins to family members who only ever used paper money, and in another scene, characters read a Bible taped to the bottom of a stool. This work's protagonist is inspired to become a vegetarian by Thomas Tryon, and he later notes the high cost and low nutrition value of the beer guzzled by his co-workers. Featuring apprenticeships to Samuel Keimer and Hugo Meredith, this book centers on a man surprised to learn that at a bakery in his new city, three-penny can buy him "three great puffy rolls." Addressed to the author's son William and including the founding of the American Philosophical Society and the acquisition of a print shop in Philadelphia, for ten points, name this memoir of a founding father.
The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin [accept synonyms for "autobiography"]
7

105039-)
According to biographer Oliver Evans, this book's author described it as "an ironic parable ofFascism." One character in this novel plays chess with his best friend, but since the friend refuses tolearn the moves, it's actually this work's main character making moves for both sides. That friendcan't resist stealing food from his cousin who took a more (*) Americanized name. Another characterin this novel is beaten after trying to protest the treatment of his son Willie, who had his feet amputatedafter being put in a cold room for trying to escape from prison. That man, Dr. Benedict Copeland, is theonly black doctor in town and is the father of Portia, who along with the drunk agitator Jake, cafÃ© ownerBiff and teenager Mick, befriends the mute John Singer. For 10 points, name this novel by CarsonMcCullers.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
8

105057-)
One character in this play stabs another with a retractable knife, but sincerely believes he killed his target until he gets up. One stage direction in this play states to hide a group of people "impossibly". The protagonists of this play are offered sexual performances for a small fee by the Tragedians, and those same Tragedians play music from barrels after angering the king. While on a ship to England, a letter belonging to the two title characters of this play is switched with a new letter calling for them to be killed. This play begins with one title character questioning whether the laws of nature do not apply after an improbably large series of coin flips all result in heads. For 10 points, name this play about the execution of two minor characters from Hamlet by Tom Stoppard.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead
7

105067-)
In one part of this work, a character goes so far as to redefine the word Noblesse Oblige and eventually talks about how another character's family is nothing but a bunch of day laborers. In another part of this work, a character notes that the neighborhood is being violated by snakes infesting people's front yards. That character later meets with the Board of Alderman and is named Judge Stevens. In this story a shopkeeper proclaims that there is enough poison in a vial to kill an elephant, to which the titular character replies that she needs arsenic in order to kill rats. In this story, Colonel Sartoris notices the disappearance of Homer Barron, who is eventually found dead at the main character's house which is emitting a "rotten smell". For 10 points identify this William Faulkner short story in which the main character is revealed to be a necrophiliac. 
A Rose for Emily
7

105113-)
Contemporary author Mark Strand's essay "On Becoming a Poet" claims that this work is the first poem he wished he had actually written, and comments that its use of only three punctuation marks, two of which are colons, accentuates the thrice-used infinitive "to feel." The speaker of this poem sees "few travelers in the westward pass" and notes that the air over Sicily flashes with "landward gulls." An ellipsis ends this poem, which mentions places like Palmyra, Baghdad, Kermanshah, and Ecbatan in an order going from east to west. The speaker of this poem feels "creep up the curving east," and also senses the "always coming on / The always rising of the night." FTP, name this work whose speaker is "here face down beneath the sunÂ…upon earth's noonward height," a poem which was titled for the author of "To His Coy Mistress" and was written by Archibald MacLeish.
"You, Andrew Marvell"
9

105115-)
At the end of this work, one character discovers that two others are Lutherans after forcing a woman to swear over his mother's cross that he was her only love. Near the beginning, a character who constantly levies curses at "dat ole devil" kicks out his live-in girlfriend, Marthy Owen. At the end, two characters who detest each other throughout coincidentally both agree to join the crew of the Cape Town-bound Londonderry. One of this work's central characters reveals that she lost her virginity to her cousin in St. Paul at sixteen, after which she moved to St. Louis instead of becoming a nurse like she'd always told her father. Its title character's father is a captain of the barge Simeon Winthrop and a frequent patron of Johnny the Priest's saloon. FTP, name this work in which the stoker Mat Burke marries Chris Christopherson's daughter, the title prostitute, written by Eugene O'Neill.
Anna Christie
9

105127-)
This poem alludes to the poet's persecution when the speaker notes that he is "followed in [his] imagination by [a] detective." The speaker of this work parenthetically confesses, "I touch your book and dream of our odysseyÂ…and feel absurd."  At the end of this poem, the speaker imagines his "courage-teacher" getting out on a "smoking bank" and watching Charon's boat disappear. This poem mourns the "lost America of love" and describes a "lonely old grubber" who asks "Are you my angel?" The speaker of this poem sees Garcia Lorca among the watermelons before seeing another poet "poking among the meats" and "eyeing the grocery boys." For 10 points, name this poem in which Allen Ginsberg imagines walking with Walt Whitman through the title store.
"A Supermarket in California"
7

105161-)
 One character in this work asks another whether his favorite authors are Baudelaire and Stephen King. One character in this work tells the story of his adulterous mother and his father who was run over by a bus, after being asked why he keeps two picture frames that are empty. Another character in this works has two girls, two cats, and two parakeets, but no sons. One character in this work complains about his black drag-queen apartment-mate who wears a kimono and plucks his eyebrows all day, and about his landlady's savage dog, whom he feeds poisoned hamburger meat. That character in this play pushes another off a bench before starting a fight, in which he impales himself on a knife. For 10 points, name this Edward Albee play in which Jerry accosts Peter in Central Park after a visit to the title location. 
Zoo Story 
7

105179-)
During this conflict, the Sheriff Essex revealed plans to attack London by setting roosters' feet on fire and setting them loose. One commander in this conflict was captured after taking shelter in a windmill outside of St. Pancras Priory. That commander, Richard of Cornwall, lost the same battle which saw a defeat for the Prince at Sussex Downs. The peace that ended this conflict re-affirmed the Charter of the Forest and was supplemented in the Statute of Marlborough. This conflict, which contains the Battle of Lewes and was ended after the Siege of Kenilworth, was started by the ruling monarch's refusal to honor the Provisions of Oxford, and the aggressors in this conflict were lead by Simon de Montfort. For 10 points, name this 1264-1267 conflict, in which a certain group of nobleman rebelled against the rule of Henry III. 
Second Baron
7

105185-)
Edmund White's Hotel de Dream fictionalizes this author writing his lost novel about a male prostitute, supposedly titled Flowers of Asphalt. He described a man eating his own heart in the poem "In the Desert," from The Black Rider and Other Lines, and he began a short story with "None of them knew the color of the sky." His most famous character dies in a barn fire in "The Veteran," a sequel to a work where that character watched Jim Conklin die in the woods and only received the title mark by accident, from a fellow soldier. For 10 points, name this author of "The Open Boat" and a novel about teenage soldier Henry Fleming, The Red Badge of Courage. 
Stephen Crane
7

105214-)
One of this man's dinner parties is attended by the author of the "Poemulations" column, anad-man for Zeeco cars named Chum Frink. In his first appearance, this character is awoken by amilk truck from his recurring dream of a "fairy child". At the end of the novel, his son Ted secretlymarries Eunice Littlefield. His wife's appendicitis causes him to rekindle his marriage, which he'dabandoned during a period in which he refuses to join the Good Citizen's League, has an affair with(*) Tanis Judique, and supports the socialist Seneca Doane. Paul Riesling's imprisonment for shooting hiswife Zilla inspires this husband of Myra to rebel against conformity. For 10 points, name this Zenith native,the title real estate agent of a Sinclair Lewis novel.
George F. Babbitt [accept either underlined answer]
5

105236-)
In one of this author's works, Ben Silverman is tasked with reuniting Al Lewis and Willie Clark,two ex-vaudeville performers who now hate each other, for a CBS special. In another of his plays,poker players discuss one of their friends sending a "suicide telegram". A third play by this man isset on the top floor of a New York brownstone and sees Corrie try to convince her new husband Paulto act more (*) impulsively. This author of Sunshine Boys wrote a series of autobiographical playsincluding Biloxi Blues and Brighton Beach Memoirs, as well as a play in which the messy Oscar Madisonlives with the fussy neat freak Felix Ungar. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote Barefoot in thePark and The Odd Couple.
Neil Simon [or Marvin Neil Simon]
5

105251-)
In one poem by this author, a passenger on Charon's ferry disembarks and watches "the boatdisappear on the black waters of the Lethe". In another poem, he claims to be "talking to myselfagain" and admits to the title country "I've given you all and now I'm nothing." A "lonely oldgrubber" asks "Are you my angel?" and "What price bananas?" in a poem by this author of (*)"America"; that poem's speaker poses the question "which way is your beard pointing tonight?" to WaltWhitman. This author repeated the mantra "Holy!" and reassured Carl Solomon "I'm with you in Rockland"in a poem that opens by declaring "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness". For 10points, name this Beat poet of "A Supermarket in California" and "Howl".
Allen Ginsberg [or Irwin Allen Ginsberg]
5

105266-)
One of this author's characters fills the liquor jugs of two men who approach while he is digginghis father's grave. That novel by her ends when the main character is raped by a man with a purple carand purple clothing before being abandoned in a forest; earlier, that character's conversation with thesalesman T. Fawcett Meeks spurs memories of stories about his cousin Bishop Rayber. This creator of(*) Francis Marion Tarwater also wrote a story featuring the characters Hiram and Bobby Lee and the catPitty Sing. That story follows a family taking a trip to Red Sammy before they are brutally killed by TheMisfit. For 10 points, name this author of the novel The Violent Bear it Away and Wise Blood, who alsowrote stories such as "A Good Man is Hard to Find."
Flannery O'Connor
8

105290-)
In one of his poems, which makes frequent use of onomatopoeia, the narrator has a vision in which he encounters the witch-doctor Mumbo-Jumbo near the title location. In another one of this man's works, the ghost of a former President haunts a small town, awaiting the day when a socialist "spirit-dawn/ Shall come." His most famous work is meant to be sung with instruments and repeats the phrase "Are you washed in the blood of the Lamb?" before Jesus greets the title character and his followers in Paradise. For 10 points, name this "Prairie Troubadour," an associate of Sandburg and Masters who wrote "The Congo" and "General William Booth Enters into Heaven." 
Vachel Lindsay
7

105305-)
In a short novel by this author, the protagonist is impressed with a "sporting goods tree" and afridge filled with fruit at his girlfriend's house. One of his characters yells at a girl called TheMonkey for dressing like a prostitute. He wrote a novel set at Athena College, where a professor hasan affair with janitor Faunia Farley and is accused of racism, but is secretly a black man posing as awhite man. The novels (*) I Married a Communist and Operation Shylock featured his recurring characterNathan Zuckerman. This author wrote a novel structured as a monologue about sexual adventures deliveredby the title character to his psychoanalyst. For 10 points, name this Jewish author of The Human Stain andPortnoy's Complaint.
Philip Milton Roth
5

105320-)
An American author with this surname used his experience as a paratrooper in Vietnam in thenovella The Barracks Thief and wrote the short story collection In the Garden of the North AmericanMartyrs. Another author of this surname addressed his critics in The Story of a Novel and wrote anovel in which Esther Jack introduces George Webber to New York society. That author of The (*)Web and the Rock fictionalized himself as a character who falls in love with Laura James and loses hisinheritance to his brother Luke before leaving Altamont for Harvard. That author with this surname createdEugene Gant. For 10 points, give the surname of This Boy's Life author Tobias and Look Homeward, Angelauthor Thomas.
Wolfe [or Wolff]
5

105339-)
One poem by this author claims that "there's nothing sentimental about the technique of writing," which can be mastered by "any young man with a mind bursting to get out." This author argued that "The United States without self-seeking has given more of material help to Europe and to the world than have all other nations of the world put together in the entire history of mankind" in the chapter "Jacataqua," from a book which contains short biographies of people like Eric the Red, Walter Raleigh, and Daniel Boone. Another book by him begins with the section "The Delineaments of the Giants," which mentions "blank faces of the houses and cylindrical trees" to reinforce that there are "no ideas but in things," and describes a place that"lies in the valley under the Passaic Falls, its spent waters forming the outline of his back." For 10 points,name this author of In the American Grain and an epic about his New Jersey hometown, Paterson.
William Carlos Williams
9

105345-)
In an early scene in this story, Mr. Saunders declines to invite the protagonist to dinner, and no one chooses to walk by his side. At a funeral, a mourner thinks she sees the protagonist and the dead girl's spirit walking together. The main character attends the installation of Governor Belcher, influencing the legislature to be pious. At the end, the author writes that this story was inspired by Joseph Moody. The protagonist refuses to listen to his fiancÃ© Elizabeth, who warns him that all of Milford believes there's a secret scandal looming. At the end, he asks a crowd "Why do you tremble at me alone?", saying he sees versions of the title object all around the room. Even as he dies, the Reverend Mr. Hooper refuses to remove the title object and is buried with it. FTP, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne story about a clergyman who covers his head with the title garment. 
"The Minister's Black Veil"
9

105361-)
One character in this story responds to a man asking if he wants water with his Scotch by quoting the Irish actor Barry Fitzgerald: "When I drink water, I drink water. When I drink whiskey, I drink whiskey." The protagonist's wife wrote a poem about living as an officer's wife on an Air Force base in Alabama before attempting suicide by swallowing pills. The narrator of this story is bothered by his wife mailing recordings of herself to a man who worked as a ham radio operator and Amway distributor who recently lost his wife Beulah. The three main characters share some marijuana before watching a documentary on the Middle Ages, but the narrator is unable to explain what a certain building looks like to his visitor Robert. This story ends with an epiphany as the narrator draws the title religious building with his eyes closed while the blind Robert holds his hand. Marking a stylistic departure from the author's earlier collection What We Talk About When We Talk About Love, FTP, name this story by Raymond Carver, which titles a 1983 collection. 
"Cathedral"
9

105366-)
Peter de Vries parodied this poem's title for his novel in which Bill Bumpers becomes a marriage counselor in Middle City,Iowa. This poem ends with a description of a "party of young fellows" performing a "robust, friendly" action appropriatefor night after giving "the day what belongs to the day." This poem juxtaposes the locales of a boat and a steamboat deck andthe postures of the shoemaker "as he sits on his bench" and the hatter "as he stands." The speaker of this poem claims eachperson performs the title action only to "what belongs to him or her and to none else." The third line of this poem describesthe carpenter "as he measures his plank of beam," and the second describes a group performing the title activity "as it shouldbe blithe and strong." The speaker of this poem lists the mason, the boatman, and the mechanics contributing to "the variedcarols" that make up the title national activity. For 10 points, name this patriotic poem in which Walt Whitman listens to hiscountry's workforce.
"I Hear America Singing"
8

105389-)
This state is the home of a garden that in the fall of 1941 fails to grow marigolds, and the dog Bob,who is indirectly poisoned by the pedophile Soaphead Church. A community in this state was foundedafter a slave was tricked into thinking hilly land was fertile and celebrates National Suicide Day. Thathome of the three deweys, The (*) Bottom, is located in this state, which is also the setting for a storywhere prayers for a son named David are answered by a grandson who slings a stone during theattempted sacrifice of a lamb. Other characters from this state include Reverend Curtis Hartman, whospies on a cigarette-smoking schoolteacher from the broken window of a church, and Wing Biddlebaum,who moves his hands nervously remembering his accusation of molesting students. For 10 points, namethis home state of Winesburg.
Ohio
8

105419-)
An early scene in this novel sees Dr. Breed make a comparison to a stack of cannonballs ororanges. In this novel, H. Lowe Crosby is a bicycle manufacturer who complains about "pissants." Thefinal scene in this book depicts a man noting how he would lay down and thumb his nose at God. Adictator who executes heretics by hanging them on a giant hook, Papa (*) Monzano, appears in thisnovel as the ruler of San Lorenzo; its other characters include the founder of a new religion, Bokonon. Atthe end of this novel, a crystal of ice-nine falls into the ocean, freezing over the world. For 10 points,name this Kurt Vonnegut novel which is named after a children's game.
Cat's Cradle
8

105429-)
This author wrote "Life's 'great things,' like the Syrian lord / our hearts can do and dare" in "The Cypress-Tree of Ceylon" In another poem, he wrote "Oh nebber you fear, if nebber you hear, / Dedriver blow his horn!" during the "Song of the Negro Boatmen," part of "At Port Royal," and he also wrote "When faith is lost, when honor dies / The man is dead!" in a poem condemning (*) Daniel Webster's endorsement of the Fugitive Slave Act. The title character does not marry the Judge in a poem that says "Of all sad words of tongue and pen, the saddest are these: 'It might have been!'" The call "Boys, a path!" leads to the creation of "A tunnel walled and overlaid / With dazzling crystal" in another of his poems. For 10 points, name this author of "Ichabod," "Maud Muller," and "Snow-Bound,"whose title character says "Shoot, if you must, this old gray head, but spare your country's flag" in"Barbara Frietchie."
John Greenleaf Whittier
8

105491-)
One character in this novel feels a special connection to Jay Gatsby, but only because he's also "in love not with Daisy but with the bank." That man's wife, Pamela, is descended from South African colonists but pretends to be a real Englishwoman. The book opens on Constance Morgan's last day at the office, where she dreams about Mr. Rosenbaum's voice coming from the tennis courts. The narrator was a neighbor of Sidney Bacon and his wife, while living on Bleecker Street in New York. The sixth chapter features an argument during Art Night between university President Dwight Robbins and the protagonist, the novelist Gertrude Johnson, who was allegedly based on Mary McCarthy. The novel's setting of Benton College was based on Sarah Lawrence College, where the author taught. FTP, name this only novel written by Randall Jarrell.  
Pictures from an Institution
9

105501-)
This poem was used to title a historically based novel which suggests that William Smith Clark, thefounder of the University of Massachusetts, was the so-called "Master Figure." A letter about this poem byThomas Higginson says it was "the only poem I dread a little to print" and warns that "the malignant" will"read into it more than that virgin recluse ever dreamed of putting there" before wondering if "MissLavinia" has "any shrinking about it." This poem states "Futile the winds to a heart in port, done with thecompass, done with the chart." This poem, whose last stanza begins "Rowing in Eden, ah the sea"proclaims the title times "our luxury." For 10 points, name this poem ending "Might I but moor tonight inthee," an ode to nocturnal eroticism by Emily Dickinson.
"Wild Nights! Wild Nights!"
9

105513-)
The last of this man's estate is used to hire Dr. Jefferson James as the director of a charity hospital, fiveyears after he dies of Bright's disease. This man outmaneuvers athletic field patron Anson Merrill andchemistry lab benefactor Hosmer Hand when he purchases a telescope for three hundred thousand dollarsand donates it to the University of Chicago. He engineers the collapse of the American Match Corporationin order to damage banks which refused him loans. He is indicted for corruption along with city treasurerStener shortly after he is shunned for his affair with Aileen Butler. He is encouraged to open a brokeragehouse by Seneca Davis shortly after making a one hundred percent profit on a lot of Java coffee as ateenager. In his first appearance, this character is enraptured by watching a lobster devour a squid. For 10points, name this protagonist of The Financier, The Titan, and The Stoic by Theodore Dreiser.
Frank Algernon Cowperwood [or Frank]
9

105515-)
The speaker remembers "the sterile sands and the fields beyond", where he, as a young boy, leaves his bed and "wanders alone". This poem includes a conversation with a "bird that chanted to me", addressed as "sad brother." Originally titled "A Child's Reminiscence," this poem starts out with a recollection of the poet's origins on the shores of Manhattan and involves hearing a bird's "aria" as a "musical shuttle." When the speaker understands that he is to become a poet, "a thousand warbling echoes" rise within him, "never to die". For 10 points, name this poem that chronicles a dialogue with the sea and a mockingbird, written by Walt Whitman. 
"Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking"
7

105526-)
Minor characters in this work include Romola Martin and Adore Loomis, a neighborhood brat. The main character is described as man with a "whole set of personalities, one inside the other like a nest of Chinese boxes." One character paints an apocalyptic scene containing the middle-class Midwestern immigrants who "have come to California to die" and hosts a cockfight in his garage, and the painter of "The Burning of Los Angeles" gets into a fight over who will dance with Fay Greener. Following Todd Hackett and Homer Simpson, it labels its Hollywood setting "Caliphonia." For 10 points, name this novel by Nathanael West. 
The Day of the Locust
7

105559-)
The narrator of this book contrasts his narrow possibilities with the open future of Clarence King,who is encountered on a geological survey of Estes Park. After visiting the Chicago World's Fair, thenarrator observes that all Americans are unified behind the idea of force. This book notes that theeighteenth century really ended with the death of the author's grandfather. It describes difficulties infinding a publisher for an article exposing Jay Gould and laments (*) learning Latin and Greek insteadof French and German. In this book's twenty-fifth chapter, the author discovers that history is defined byforces acting on people in "The Dynamo and the Virgin." For 10 points, name this autobiography aboutthe decreased role of intellectuals in the coming twentieth century, written by a descendant of twoPresidents.
The Education of Henry Adams
8

105588-)
This poet composed a series of three never-sent letters to a figure called the Master, who may bethe same figure as one who roams "in sovereign woods" and shares "Eider-Duck's Deep Pillow" withthis poet in a poem whose speaker has "but the power to kill without the power to die". In anotherpoem, this author told of signing away "what portions of me be Assignable" before a moment whenshe "could not (*) see to see." This author of "My Life had stood a Loaded Gun" compared "the Stillnessin the Room " to "the Stillness in the Air" in a poem whose title creature exhibits a "blue, uncertain,stumbling buzz". For 10 points, name this reclusive female poet of "I heard a Fly buzz when I died" and"Because I could not stop for Death".
Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
5

105602-)
One character in this play remarks that the main characters are all "eaters of the earth," and thatcharacter later comforts another character who ends the play by asking "are you afraid, Mama?"Another character in this play slaps his wife for suggesting that their niece will not have to marry theirson. A confession that a wife is glad of her husband's impending (*) death causes that husband to havea heart attack. Two brothers decide to try to blame their crime of illegally borrowing $88,000 one oftheir sons, Leo, in this play. Chicago businessman William Marshall flirts with the wife of Horace in thisplay, in which Oscar and Ben are thwarted by their sister. For 10 points, name this play in which ReginaGiddens outmaneuvers her family, by Lillian Hellman.
The Little Foxes
8

105718-)
One character in this novel carries a scrap of paper reading "They whirl asunder and dismember me," aslight misquotation of Blanch of Spain's speech from King John. This novel begins with its protagonistobserving the underclass of subway workers as he rides a line from end to end. This novel, which revisitsthe author's Rolling Stone article "American Blood," takes a metafictional twist with the appearance of thearchivist Nicholas Branch. At its end, Marguerite and Marina are prevented from seeing footage of thedeath of their relative, a defector to the USSR who becomes involved in a plot to start a war with Cuba. For10 points, name this novel that speculates on the John F. Kennedy assassination, a DeLillo book named forLee Harvey Oswald's astrological sign.
Libra
9

105729-)
Near the end of this poem, the speaker commands the rabbi to "solemnize the secretive syllables" afterinforming him that we are "an unhappy people in a happy world." This poem rejects images of "mountainsrunning on water, wave on wave, through waves of light," saying "this is nothing until in a single mancontained, nothing until this named thing nameless is and is destroyed," before he "opens the door of hishouse on flames." It culminates in the realization that "there may be always a time for innocence" but"there is never a place." The first of its ten cantos in tercets discards three mythologies of a serpent bybidding "Farewell to an idea," introducing instead a man walking on a white beach, observing the titlemeteorological phenomenon. For 10 points, name this title poem of Wallace Stevens's last collection.
 "The Auroras of Autumn"
9

105733-)
[missing]
[missing]
9

105792-)
This character marries a "minor movingpicture magnate" in Hollywood and divorces him in Mexico five years later. This character washes her mouth out with soap after kissing Charlie; earlier, she wrestles with a brother for kissing "a dirty girl like Natalie." At her father's funeral, this character pays her brother a hundred dollars to see her daughter, whom she later attempts to send two hundred dollars a month. That brother notices her muddy drawers as she climbs a tree, and repeatedly remarks that this character "smells of trees." This character's favorite brother, for whom she names her daughter, thinks of her before committing suicide at Harvard. For 10 points, name this sister of Jason, Quentin, and Benjy Compson in William Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury.
Caddy Compson [or Candace Compson; prompt on "Compson"]
7

105803-)
This character faintheartedly commits herself to improving her studies after a night of reading Emerson alone in her house, and hushes Victor when he begins singing "Ah! Si tu savais!" While talking to a friend, she declares that she would give up the "unessential things" for her children, but she wouldn't give herself up. Doctor Mandelet advises this character's husband to permit her whims, which include moving into a "pigeon house" outside of her house on Esplanade Street. This mother of Raoul and Etienne watches Adele Ratignolle give birth on her last night alive, and romances Alcee Arobin and Robert Lebrun while living in New Orleans. For 10 points, name this woman who swims as far as she can into the Gulf of Mexico at the end of Kate Chopin's novel The Awakening.
Edna Pontellier [or Edna Pontellier]
7

105829-)
One of these poems begins with, "Zeus lies in Ceres' bosom" evoking a sense of fertility beforeconcentrating on the Pocket Book of Verse, and later the construction of a mud nest by a wasp isreprised. In another of these, a lament for J. P. Arnold is heard through the language of Bertran deBorn. In the first of these, the author adopts the persona of "OY TIS" and later blends into Wuluwaid,then (*) Ouan Jin. In the 81st the author notes," Borne upon a zephyr's shoulder / I rose through theaureate sky" while the 80th ends, "God knows what else is left of London, our London." For 10 points,name this group of "songs" partially written on toilet paper while the author was imprisoned in anexposed cage in Tuscany for making broadcasts on behalf of fascist Italy.
Ezra Pound's Pisan Cantos
8

105840-)
One character in this work recounts a story about a snake-oil doctor who believed sobriety to be acause for premature death, while another character uses his wife's adultery to excuse his alcoholism.The final scene in this work sees Hugo declare "the days grow hot in Babylon!" Cora and (*) Chuckhope to get married and buy a farm, while returning to the police force is Pat McGloin's pipe dream.After betraying his mother and his fellow anarchists, Don Parritt commits suicide, per the advice of the"Foolosopher", Larry Slade. For 10 points, identify this play, which sees Hickey confess to murdering hiswife seconds before his arrest in Harry Hope's Saloon, a work of Eugene O'Neill.
The Iceman Cometh
8

105860-)
In this story, an old professor who has had too much to drink says that the title character "is already qualified to fill a professor's chair," though he declines to share "other absurd rumors."  The title character of this story has a voice as "rich as a tropical sunset," which causes the protagonist to "think of deep hues of purple or crimson, and of perfumes heavily delectable." This story's narrator watches a drop of dew that falls and kills a lizard near a shrub bearing a "profusion of purple blossoms." Eventually, Professor Baglioni convinces Giovanni to give the title Padua resident a cup of medicine to counteract her father's experimentation, but it kills her. For 10 points, name this short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne about Beatrice, who becomes as poisonous as the plants she tends.
"Rappaccini's Daughter"
7

105865-)
In a prose work, this author described how "the tom-tom cries and the tom-tom laughs" and noted"We build our temples for tomorrow". One of his poems describes a time when "the stars went outand so did the moon". His poem "Hard Luck" provided the title of his collection Fine Clothes to theJew, which was published two years after his "discovery" by Vachel (*) Lindsay. He described a manwho "slept like a rock or a man that's dead" after playing the piano in a club on Lenox Avenue in one poem,while in another, the speaker declares "I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young. I built my hutnear the Congo and it lulled me to sleep". For 10 points, name this Harlem Renaissance poet who wrote"The Weary Blues" and "The Negro Speaks of Rivers".
Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes]
5

105901-)
This author's shorter works include a chronicle of a high school boy's love for the charmingly Gothic Emily Hohn, and a work narrated by Thomas of Cornwall in which the King stays in a tree and observes the love of Tristan and Ysolt. In addition to "Tales of Darkness and the Unknown, Vol XIV: The White Glove," he wrote about Carl Hausman, who chases a baseball into the woods and finds the realm of Atlantis and the title figure in From the Realm of Morpheus. He collected his short stories in the books We Others and In the Penny Arcade, but he's best known for a novel about a guy who partners with Emmeline Vernon after starting out as a bellboy in the Vanderlyn Hotel, and it concludes with the failure of the Grand Cosmo Hotel. FTP, name this American author of the 1997 novel Martin Dressler.
Steven Millhauser
9

105937-)
This novel's protagonist wonders whether a new acquaintance is French due to her pronunciation of "du bout des doigts," after that other character plays Schubert on the piano at a dying man's house. A character in this novel is sent to a nunnery by her father as punishment because she wished to marry Edward Rosier instead of a wealthier suitor. In this novel, a character who is dying of a lung disease convinces his father to leave half of his own inheritance to the protagonist, in order to grant her independence. Lord Warburton and Caspar Goodwood both propose to this novel's protagonist, who finds that her supposed confidante Madame Merle once had an affair with her husband, Gilbert Osmond. For 10 points, Isabel Archer is the title woman of what novel by Henry James?
The Portrait of a Lady
7

105968-)
The title character of a story by this author is run over and killed by Mr. Shortley's tractor while Mrs. McIntyre is on her way to fire him. This author who wrote about an unfortunate Pole named Mr. Guizac in "The Displaced Person" also wrote a story in which an old man moves to New York and mistakenly calls his new neighbor "preacher," leading to a fight that causes him to have a stroke. This author of "Judgment Day" wrote a story in which a typewriter salesman denigrates the decayed mansion of his Godhigh ancestors. In that story, a woman in a purple hat has a stroke after she condescendingly gives a penny to a young black boy while riding the bus to the Y with her son Julian. For 10 points, name this extremely Catholic American author of "Everything that Rises Must Converge."
Mary Flannery O'Connor
7

105987-)
The speaker of a poem by this author pledges, "I will keep you there forever" in the "round-tower of my heart" "till the walls should crumble to ruin, and molder in dust away." A poem by this author begins by describing the farmer of Grand-Pre, who dies of a heart attack after a mini-riot is quelled by Father Felician. Another of this author's characters fasts for seven days, during which he wrestles Mondamin. This poet of "The Children's Hour" wrote a poem in dactylic hexameter beginning "This is the forest primeval," and used a Kalevala-esque trochaic tetrameter for a poem in which the grandson of Nokomis weds Minnehaha "By the shores of Gitche Gumee." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Evangeline" who tried to draw on Ojibwe lore in "The Song of Hiawatha."
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
7

105994-)
In one essay, this thinker described an unscrupulous but powerful class of men full of "coarse energy" he called the "bruisers." At the end of another essay, he imagined an ideal artist who could "walk the world over" and be unable "to find a condition inopportune or ignoble." This thinker described the gift of "a wicked dollar which by and by I shall have the manhood to withhold" in an essay instructing the reader to "speak what you think now in hard words, and tomorrow speak what tomorrow thinks in hard words again." That essay by this thinker proposes that "to be great is to be misunderstood" and argues, "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds." For 10 points, name this American author of "The Poet" and "Self-Reliance."
Ralph Waldo Emerson
7

105995-)
One character in this play wonders if "man has passed the stage in his evolution wherein love ispossible." Another character in this play expresses an unusual interest in a cold powder room and deflowersa man who was impressed with her performance of "That Old Black Magic" at the Blue Dragon nightclub.A third character in this play leaves the stage, feigning a headache, to have casual sex with one of herregulars. During this play's denouement, a college professor is arrested for pedophilia, although Elma isflattered by his interest in her, and Bo Decker apologizes to Cherie for attempting to drag her to Montana tomarry her. For 10 points, name this play in which several travelers wait out a snowstorm in Grace'ssmall-town Kansas diner, a comedy by William Inge
Bus Stop
9

106004-)
 One character in this story concocts a scheme to supply the East Indies with ice by assembling a teamof whales. The setting of this story includes a bookshelf containing parchment-covered duodecimos, apicture of a woman who can step out of its frame, and a head of Hippocrates capable of intoning the word"Forbear!" In this story, three men fight over who gets to dance with a lady who had been their mutuallover. After a rose wilts for the second time, Mr. Gascoigne, Mr. Medbourne, Colonel Killigrew, and theWidow Wycherly revert to old age. For 10 points, name this story in which a mad scientist serves an elixirof youth to four geriatrics, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
"Dr. Heidegger's Experiment"
9

106024-)
In a play by this author set in an austere kitchen, Black attempts to prevent White fromcommitting suicide on his birthday. In one of his novels, Jimmy Blevins is reunited in prison with twocharacters who are released thanks to the aunt of the protagonist's former lover Alejandra. Thisauthor of The Sunset Limited wrote a novel in which the ear-collecting David Brown and the earlessLouis Toadvine are hanged for being members of the (*) Glanton Gang, which also employed theprotagonist and the giant, hairless, possibly-immortal Judge Holden. His "Border Trilogy" opens with anovel about John Grady Cole called All the Pretty Horses. For 10 points, name this author of BloodMeridian, The Road, and No Country for Old Men.
Cormac McCarthy [or Charles McCarthy]
5

106082-)
This state is the location of the college where Dottie Renfrew, Elinor Eastlake, Kay Strong, andothers form "The Group" in a Mary McCarthy novel. The lawyer Marcus Gormen narrates a novelset in this state; that novel, Legs, begins a series that also includes a novel about former baseballplayer Francis Phelan. In another novel set in this state, the protagonist is hospitalized after being hitwith a baseball by Danny (*) Saunders; that novel about Reuven Malter is Chaim (HYME) Potok's TheChosen. Mr. Yunioshi lives in this state near the owner of a nameless cat, an "American geisha" who goesby Holly Golightly. For 10 points, name this state, the setting of Truman Capote's Breakfast at Tiffany'sand William Kennedy's Albany Trilogy.
New York State
5

106090-)
One character in this book is serenaded with "For He's a Jolly Good Fellow" after defusing the offense he caused by refusing a strong drink. Another character in this book owns a knife covered in Indian symbols with precious gems on its sheath. Early in this novel, the title character falls into disrepute after claiming that he'd kill half of a howling dog. In this novella, Patsy Cooper takes in two Italian boarders who get accused of the murder of a judge. The title character of this novel, set in Dawson's Landing, exonerates Luigi and Angelo Capello and reveals Judge Driscoll's true murderer by demonstrating fingerprinting. For 10 points, name this Mark Twain novella in which the slave Roxana switches her child with her master's, a scheme foiled by the title lawyer with a pejorative nickname.
The Tragedy of Puddn'head Wilson
7

106112-)
This novel's narrator finds benzene to wipe off a message written in purple lipstick across a woman's stomach before she wakes up and calls him "boo'ful" over and over. Emma asks for a dance at a fancy club called the Chthonian in this novel, in which a man known as Supercargo eggs on a fight between veterans in the Golden Day bar. This novel's title character lets a room from Mary Rambo and becomes friends with Brother Clifton. This book's narrator attends a rally at which "No more dispossessing of the dispossessed!" is chanted. At a eulogy in this novel, Ras the Destroyer incites massive race riots, during which the narrator falls underground via a manhole and concludes that his personal identity is unnoticed by white people. For 10 points, name this novel by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man
7

106128-)
This author wrote a poem whose speaker encourages a "heart-broken husband" and a"left-lonesome daughter" to "weep no more" and describes God sending a "tall, bright angel" toYamacraw in Savannah to retrieve Sister Caroline. This man coined the term "Red Summer" for aspate of violence in 1919 and wrote a poem which describes standing "where the white gleam of ourstar is cast" and advocates doing the title action "till earth and Heaven (*) ring". A character createdby this author of "Go Down, Death" and God's Trombones stops playing ragtime music after watching alynching turn into a burning-at-the-stake, choosing instead to pass as white. For 10 points, name this authorof "Lift Every Voice and Sing" and Autobiography of an Ex-Colored Man.
James Weldon Johnson
5

106136-)
In one scene, a member of this family is defended by the shotgun-wielding Braxton BraggUnderwood. Another member of this family owns a cat named Rose Aylmer and repeatedly makesjoking marriage proposals to Miss Maudie. One of its members destroys a camellia bush but laterhelps its owner kick her morphine habit. Another member resists Aunt Alexandra's efforts towardmaking her more (*) feminine and is saved by a ham costume during an event in which her brother breakshis arm defending her from Bob Ewell. This family employs the housekeeper Calpurnia and lives next doorto the Radleys. Its patriarch defends Tom Robinson. For 10 points, Jem, Scout, and Atticus are members ofwhat central family of To Kill a Mockingbird?
the Finches [accept word forms; accept Robinson before "cat" is read, since Underwood is defending Atticus, who himself is blocking a lynch mob from getting to Tom Robinson]
5

106154-)
J. Hillis Miller described two characters in this poem as "opaque spheres" which "can never, likesoap bubbles, become one". A 38-line "perviligium" was deleted from an early draft of this poem,whose speaker describes a time "for a hundred indecisions, and for a hundred visions and revisions"and claims to be "an attendant lord", rather than "Prince Hamlet". Its third stanza describes thecatlike actions of a (*) "yellow fog". Its speaker wonders "Would it have been worth it, after all?", worriesabout being told "That is not what I meant at all", and asks "Do I dare disturb the universe?" This poem'srefrain describes women who "come and go, talking of Michelangelo". The line "Let us go then, you andI" opens, for 10 points, which 1915 poem by T.S. Eliot?
"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" [prompt on "Prufrock"]
5

106171-)
In one novel by this author, Captain Warley serves as a deus ex machina and Judith is saddenedby the discovery that her father, the trader Floating Tom Hutter, used to be the pirate ThomasHovey. Another of this man's novels describes the competition between Davy Muir, Jasper Western,and the protagonist for the affection of Mabel Dunham. He created the singing teacher David (*)Gamut for a novel in which a villain known as "Le Renard Subtil" assists the Marquis de Montcalm andkidnaps Cora Munro. In that novel by this author, Magua's murder of Uncas is avenged by Chingachgook'slifelong companion Natty Bumppo. For 10 points, name this American author whose Leatherstocking Talesinclude the novel The Last of the Mohicans.
James Fenimore Cooper
5

106183-)
One of this poem's stanzas singles out the "habit-forming pain, Mismanagement and grief,"saying "we must suffer them all again." It also suggests that "Thucydides knew all that a speech cansay about democracy." In its second stanza, this poem's speaker notes that "I and the public knowwhat all schoolchildren learn;" namely, that "those to whom evil is done (*) do evil in return." Thespeaker of this poem mentions "what mad Nijinsky wrote about Diaghilev" and declares that "we must loveone another or die." This poem opens "in one of the dives on 52nd street" and envisions "waves of angerand fear" stemming from "what occurred at Linz," a reference to Hitler's birth. For 10 points, name thisW.H. Auden poem about the day that World War II began.
"September 1, 1939"
5

106188-)
A scandal arose when this poet was defeated by Orrick Johns in a contest held by The Lyric Yeardespite widespread admiration for her submission, whose speaker tells of how "Infinity came downand settled over me" after reaching up to touch the sky. This poet claimed that "heroes seek releasefrom dusty bondage into luminous air" in the Petrarchan sonnet (*) "Euclid alone has looked onBeauty bare." The two-line poem "Safe upon the solid rock the ugly houses stand: Come and see myshining palace built upon the sand!" is the second entry in a collection by this author. That collection's firstpoem begins "My candle burns at both ends, it will not last the night." For 10 points, name this author of"Renascence" and A Few Figs From Thistles.
Edna St. Vincent Millay
5

106200-)
One poem by this man describes the rising of the "lord-star Jupiter" and the motion of the "delicatesisters the Pleiades" as the speaker exhorts one figure, "weep not, child." Another poem by this mancontrasts a form that "attracts with fierce undeniable attraction" to one that "is action and power",and begs the reader to (*) "Swim with the swimmers, wrestle with wrestlers, march in line with thefiremen." This poet of "On the Beach at Night" wrote about a man whose "lips are pale and still" andhas "fallen cold and dead" in a poem about the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points, namethis poet, who wrote "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry", "O Captain! My Captain!" and the collection Leaves ofGrass.
Walt Whitman
8

106210-)
 one work by this man, a boy notes that his uncles must love each other, because "strangerswould not want to hurt each other that badly" as they fight during a New Year's Eve party. Thatcharacter's father claims to be the only person of his type to see Hendrix play the Star SpangledBanner at Woodstock in another story by this author. Robert Johnson sells his soul to The Gentlemanin a novel by this author, in which the blues band Coyote Springs acquires the groupies Betty andVeronica and travels to New York from (*) Spokane. "Every Little Hurricane" appears in a short storycollection by this author, which also includes the stories "The Only Traffic Signal on the ReservationDoesn't Flash Red Anymore" and "Jesus Christ's Half-Brother Is Alive and Well on the Spokane IndianReservation." For 10 points, name this Native American author of Reservation Blues and "The LoneRanger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven."
Sherman Alexie
8

106232-)
One character with this name begins a monologue with the lines "If ancient sorrow be mostreverent, Give mine the benefit of seniority." One character with this first name helps to hide hermutinous brother Frederick after moving to an industrialized town where she befriends Mr. Higginsand marries Mr. Thornton. A different person with this name is asked "are you (*) grieving / OverGoldengrove unleaving" in Hopkins's poem "Spring and Fall." The first name of the queen known for hercurses in Shakespeare's Richard III, another character with this first name fails to take possession of ahouse after a letter bequeathing the house to her is burned. That character stands by her husbanddespite his previous affair, reconciling her sister Helen with her husband, Henry Wilcox. For 10 points,give the first name of the Schlegel sister who is the protagonist of Howard's End.
Margaret
8

106237-)
One character in this novel reminisces about a time when she was caught shoplifting and how shefelt that she let her father down because they had to move out of Akron. This novel's protagonist iscalled "The Tenor" by the mother of the girl he dates, causing him to be shocked at the number ofguys she's gone out with. One climactic scene in this novel comes after a golf trip in Houston, wherethe parents of this novel's protagonist argue over their lack of communication, leading to their (*)divorce. The protagonist of this novel is able to mend his friendship with Lazenby and dates JeanninePratt after going to counseling sessions with Dr. Berger, which help him deal with the death of hisbrother Buck and his subsequent suicide attempt. For 10 points, name this novel which ends with apositive relationship between Calvin and his son Conrad, written by Judith Guest.
Ordinary People
8

106242-)
 In one short story, this man created the nuns Edgar and Grace, who confirm the miracle of the titledead girl. In one novel by this author of "The Angel Esmeralda," Heinrich and his father have aconvoluted argument about whether it is raining, and the protagonist shoots Willie Mink, afterseeking advice from (*) Murray Jay Siskind. In another novel, which ends "The future belongs tocrowds," this man created Scott, whose lover Karen has an affair with his boss, the reclusive writer BillGray. Another novel by this man describes a trip across a chaotic New York in search of a haircut, madeby the billionaire Eric Packer in his limousine. This author created the drug Nyodene D., which may haveaffected Babette and her husband, a professor of Hitler Studies, Jack Gladney. For 10 points, name thisAmerican author of Mao II, Cosmopolis, and White Noise.
Don DeLillo
8

106257-)
One character in this work is encouraged to join the IWW after being sent to Blackwell IslandPrison for making someone miss his bus. The opening of this play sees Long making a Marxist speechafter a group of workers chants "Think! Don't Drink!" to mock the protagonist, and Long and theprotagonist both visit Fifth Avenue in Scene 5. One character in this work is the daughter of thepresident of (*) Nazareth Steel, and faints after encountering the protagonist. The protagonist is sent tojail after Mildred Douglas calls him filthy, and starts the play working as a stoker on a transatlantic oceanliner. For 10 points, name this 1922 play in which Yank releases a gorilla from its cage, written by EugeneO'Neill.
The Hairy Ape
8

106284-)
A character in this story is called "Miss Priss" when she starts pulling the tacks out of somebluebird wall vases. Another character in this story is annoyed by the fact that her uncle is wearing apiece of clothing which is part of her trousseau; that character is exactly a year younger than theprotagonist. This story takes place on the Fourth of July, and a climactic moment in this story involvesa bunch of (*) fireworks being thrown into the protagonist's room. The narrator of this story is jealous ofanother character's relationship with the photographer Mr. Whitaker, and she refers to her grandfatheras Papa-Daddy. The narrator of this story, who lives in China Grove, is resentful of her sister StellaRondo.For 10 points, name this short story in which Sister explains why she is no longer staying with herfamily, written by Eudora Welty.
"Why I Live at the P.O."
8

106292-)
The title character of one novel by this author lusts after the hunchback Janey Davenport, whosepotential suicide in Paris is described in the letters of Beagle Darwin. The title character of that novelby him also learns from Maloney the Areopagite. He also wrote about a man who only finds comfortwhen he envisions himself as a rock and spends a week at a Connecticut farm with (*) Betty, butstrikes a woman repeatedly after she fails to seduce him, prompting her to tell her crippled husband,Peter Doyle, who accidentally shoots that character. This author created St. Puce, who lived in Christ'sarmpit, in a novel about traversing the bowels of the Trojan Horse. This author of The Dream Life ofBalso Snell also described the painting "The Burning of Los Angeles" by Tod Hackett. For 10 points, namethis author of Miss Lonelyhearts and The Day of the Locust.
Nathanael West
8

106308-)
In this work, an academic reflects on how his affair with the Japanese woman Sono and hisexclusive attention to his book Romanticism and Christianity ruined his marriage to his first wife,Daisy. This novel's title character thinks disgustedly of "potato love" when embraced by SandorHimmelstein and considers his lawyer Simkin one of his "reality instructors." The protagonist of thisnovel grabs his father's pistol after chatting with his stepmother (*) Tante Taube in Chicago, then waitsoutside his wife's house to shoot her lover before seeing him bathe his daughter Junie. After his wifeMadeleine leaves him for his best friend Valentine Gersbach, the title character works out a "need toexplain" by writing letters to friends, former friends, and dead world leaders. For 10 points, name thisnovel by Saul Bellow.
Herzog
8

106309-)
The narrator of this story points out that the initials on a silver teaspoon are regretfully not the giver's; that teaspoon, along with other donations like a 5 pound banknote and a silver tobacco box, is placed in a hat next to a candle-box. The arrival of this story's title character results in "Tuttle's grocery" importing a carpet and mirrors in order to look nicer. A satirist called "Boston" plans a facetious christening in this story that is interrupted by a short speech by Stumpy. Another character in this story has his finger "rastled" by a baby, leading him to repeat the phrase "The damned little cuss!" At the end of this story, the North Fork floods the title location and Kentuck is found dying with the body of the title child of Cherokee Sal. For 10 points, name this short story by Bret Harte.
"The Luck of Roaring Camp"
7

106337-)
One person aboard this ship is described as having a "tragic, mysterious, repulsive mask" over his soul.This ship is where the Finn Wamibo serves, alongside a man who is "afraid to turn his head" and has"unthinking stillness" after the cook Podmore accuses him of being the devil and attempts to convert him.This ship is tossed on its side by a storm during which Old Singleton works the wheel for thirty hoursnonstop. After a person aboard this ship comes to embody "the idea of a stalking death," Belfast exclaimsthat he wants to "knock his ugly head off," and Donkin eventually robs that man of his money. This ship isjourneying from Bombay to London under the command of Captain Allistoun when a new crew membertakes ill with a cough, ultimately dying at the Flores Islands and being tossed overboard. For 10 points,name this ship aboard which the black sailor James Wait serves in a novel by Joseph Conrad.
The Narcissus 
9

106348-)
One novel by this author concludes with the narrator reaching "the end of what can be done withwords," asking "and then?," and focuses on the poor old writer William Hall's mystical journey to theEgyptian afterlife. Another of his novels was excoriated in the Times Literary Supplement with a headlinereading "Ugh!" This author receives magical bullets from Pegleg in the avant-garde musical The BlackRider, which dramatizes how he accidentally murdered his wife in a game of handgun William Tell. Thisman drew on his own experiences living in Tangier to write about a man on the run from the police whocomes across users of "black meat" in Freeland and crashes an orgy thrown by Hassan in Interzone. For 10points, name this Beat author of The Western Land and Naked Lunch.
William Seward Burroughs II [or William Lee]
9

106369-)
This plays opens with the funeral of a woman who is referred to as "the last of the Mohicans." In this play, a character enters dragging a pine tree, which she claims to have cut down with her teeth. One of this play's settings is the Diorama Room, which features a tableau of mechanical mannequins and covered wagons. In this play, a speech criticizing change is given by the world's oldest living Bolshevik, Aleksii Antedilluvianovich Prelapsarianov. In this play, the Valium addict Harper daydreams about beings living in the ozone layer and finally leaves Joe Pitt, her Mormon husband. In this play's latter section, Perestroika, the ghost of Ethel Rosenberg sings to the lawyer Roy Cohn as he dies of AIDS. For 10 points, name this "Gay Fantasia on National Themes," a play by Tony Kushner.
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes [accept Angels in America, Part I: Millennium Approaches until "pine" but do not accept thereafter]
7

106379-)
The speaker of one poem by this author asks, "Does my haughtiness offend you?" after opening that poem with the concession "you may write me down in history / with your bitter, twisted lies." This author insisted in another poem that "you, created only a little lower / than the angels, have crouched too long in / the bruising darkness." This author of "Still I Rise" opened a third poem with the phrase "A Rock, A River, A Tree" and recorded that she stopped speaking for years after her mother's boyfriend raped her when she was eight. For 10 points, name this poet who read "On the Pulse of Morning" at Bill Clinton's inauguration and also wrote the autobiography I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Maya Angelou [or Marguerite Annie Johnson]
7

106399-)
This author asserted that "the subject of drama is The Lie" in his dramaturgical work Three Usesof the Knife. One of this author's plays puts sections of dialogue in parentheses to indicate "a changeof outlook on the part of the speaker." The lesbian couple Grace and Ruthie appear in that play bythis author, in which Fletcher's absence results in a beating for Bobby, who had conspired withjunkshop owner Don and (*) Teach to steal the title coin. In his most famous play, James Lingk isbrowbeaten at a Chinese restaurant by Ricky Roma, while Dave Moss and Shelley "The Machine" Leveneconspire to steal the title real estate leads. For 10 points, name this profanity-loving American playwrightof American Buffalo and Glengarry Glen Ross.
David Alan Mamet
5

106417-)
In one of this author's novels, the narrator's sister schemes to reunite Olivia and her estrangedhusband Simon and believes that her "yin eyes" let her see the world of ghosts. This author wrote anovel whose protagonist was expected to commune with Precious Auntie, the dead title character.One of her characters loses faith in the book "The Twenty-Six Malignant Gates" after her son Bingdrowns, an event which haunts (*) Rose Jordan. Another of her characters quit playing chess to preventher mother Lindo from living vicariously through her. This author wrote The Hundred Secret Senses andThe Bonesetter's Daughter. For 10 points, name this Asian-American author who created fourmahjong-playing families in her novel The Joy Luck Club.
Amy Tan
5

106455-)
This man wrote a parody of boy-meets-girl stories in which a writer comes up with a variety of ways Justin Horgenschlag and Shirley Lester could fall in love. This author of "The Heart of a Broken Story" also wrote about Ginnie Mannox's awkward conversation with the Graff family. This man described a preternaturally intelligent young boy who foretells his death at the hands of his violent sister Booper, and who believes he is the reincarnation of a Hindu holy man. In another story by this author of "Teddy" and "Just Before the War with the Eskimos," a man at the beach helps Sibyl Carpenter look for the title animals before shooting himself in his hotel room. For 10 points, name this creator of the Glass family, the author of "A Perfect Day for Bananafish."
Jerome David Salinger
7

106491-)
This book's narrator asserts that "a living dog is better than a dead lion" and advises letting eachperson "step to the music that he hears, however measured or far away." In one scene in this book,the narrator discusses the desire for wealth with John Farmer during a rainstorm. In anotherepisode, the narrator watches a hundred men cut blocks of ice to send across the world. The narratorof this work lives within earshot of the (*) Fitchburg Railway and is visited by the illiterate Alec Therien,who lives an "animal life," and the poet Ellery Channing. Its narrator claims that "the mass of men leadlives of quiet desperation." For 10 points, name this transcendentalist memoir about living in a cabin in theConcord woods, a work by Henry David Thoreau.
Walden; or Life in the Woods
5

106504-)
In one of this man's three reinterpretations of The Scarlet Letter, Dale Kohler attempts to usecomputers to prove the existence of God. Another of his novels, written in present tense, contains acharacter who takes a job as a gardener for Mrs. Horace Smith after the intervention of the golfingminister Jack Eccles and tries not to turn out like Marty Tothero, his former (*) coach. This author ofRoger's Version also created a character who accidentally drowns her daughter Rebecca June after herhusband leaves her to resume his affair with Ruth Leonard. He wrote a series of novels in which formerhigh school basketball star Harry Angstrom is "at Rest" and "Rich". For 10 points, name this Americanauthor of the Rabbit novels.
John Hoyer Updike
5

106514-)
This novel's two epigraphs are from Eliot's Family Reunion and Melville's "Benito Cereno". In itsfirst chapter, a "magnificent blonde" with an American flag tattooed on her stomach dances for agroup of boys. One character in this novel is repeatedly mistaken for someone named "Rinehart"while heading to Brother Hambro's apartment after the funeral of (*) Tod Clifton. This novel'sprotagonist shows Mr. Norton the incestuous Jim Trueblood, angering Dr. Bledsoe, who expels him from aprestigious black college. This novel's narrator is injured in an explosion at Liberty Paints, lives in a roomlit by 1,369 light bulbs, and works in Harlem for the Brotherhood, an organization opposed by Ras theExhorter. For 10 points, name this novel by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [do NOT accept "The Invisible Man"]
5

106537-)
One character in this novel is a former member of a band of thieves called the Redbeards. Anotherof its characters feels betrayed when two pearls she'd asked to keep are made into earrings and hatesthe slave Cuckoo. This novel is the first part of a trilogy that also contains Sons and A House Divided.During a riot in this novel, the protagonist's wife finds a cache of jewels, while the protagonist is paidoff by a rich man whose house is being looted, allowing him to quit his job pulling a (*) rickshaw. Thisnovel's protagonist buys land from the House of Hwang and purchases the concubine Lotus, leading him toneglect his wife O-Lan. For 10 points, name this novel about the Chinese peasant Wang Lung, written byPearl S. Buck.
The Good Earth
5

106541-)
One of these objects provides the title of a novel in which Tadasu has difficulty distinguishingbetween his mother, Chinu, and his step-mother, Tsuneko; that novel was written by Jun'ichiroTanizaki. Alihodja Mutevelic, a shopkeeper from the city of Visegrad, is nailed to one of these objectsin an Ivo Andric novel. Five tramps travel west in "The River", a subsection of "Powhatan'sDaughter", which along with (*) "Cutty Sark" and "Cape Hatteras" is a major section of a poem titled foranother of these objects. A sudden searing pain makes Peyton Farquhar realize that he is being hung fromone. For 10 points, identify these objects, the subjects of a Hart Crane poem about one in Brooklyn and anAmbrose Bierce story about one across Owl Creek.
bridges [accept Bridge of Dreams, The Bridge on the Drina, or "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge"]
5

106556-)
This object's first appearance is accompanied by a character stretching his arms toward it "in acurious way" and trembling. At one point in the novel in which it appears, this object is obscured bymist, which prompts the narrator to note that a character's "count of enchanted objects haddiminished by one". At the end of that novel, the narrator compares this object to "the (*) orgasticfuture that year by year recedes before us", while critics often assert that this object, which is visible fromWest Egg, represents things like hope, money, or the unattainable love of its owner. For 10 points, identifythis oft-analyzed object that tantalizes Jay Gatsby from its position on Daisy Buchanan's dock, a prominentsymbol in The Great Gatsby.
the green light at the end of the Buchanans' dock in The Great Gatsby
5

106578-)
After this character offers to "bring in the blancmange," she is told "you be the lady, and I'll bethe darkey." In one scene, this character has her dress stuffed with a pair of "Gay Deceivers", whilein another scene, it is revealed that she spends her days visiting penguins, having dropped out ofRubicam's Business College. The play she appears in ends with her blowing out the candles. She isdiagnosed with an inferiority complex by (*) Jim O'Connor, whose mishearing of the word "pleurosis"led to her high school nickname, "Blue Roses". Later, she gives Jim a unicorn with a broken horn from hercollection. For 10 points, identify this sister of Tom and daughter of Amanda, a Tennessee Williamscharacter who owns a glass menagerie.
Laura Wingfield [prompt on "Wingfield"]
5

106587-)
This poem describes how "a liquid ditty floats to the turtle-dove that listens, while she gloats on themoon" and claims that several "people" are "neither man nor woman - They are neither brute norhuman - They are ghouls." Its speaker claims that "how the danger ebbs and flows" can bedetermined by "the sinking and the swelling in the anger of" the title entities. This poem describesobjects which leap (*) "higher, higher, higher, with a desperate desire" and are found "moaning" and"groaning" by its end. Its author coined the word "tintinnabulation" to describe those objects, which comein "iron", "silver", and "wedding" varieties. For 10 points, the title objects keep "time, time, time in a sortof Runic rhyme" in which onomatopoeic Edgar Allan Poe poem?
"The Bells"
5

106604-)
Several of this author's poems, including "Rebellion", describe a fistfight he had with his fatherover his desire to marry Anne Dick. He wrote a poem which states "we've lost our summermillionaire, who seemed to leap from an L. L. Bean catalogue" before averring "I myself am hell,nobody's here--only" the title creatures. Another of his poems mentions "yellow dinosaursteamshovels" and ends by stating "a savage servility slides by on grease". One of his poemsdescribes an animal who "jabs her (*) wedge-head" into a cup of sour cream", while another opens withthe image of "a Sahara of snow" around the South Boston Aquarium and describes a memorial to RobertGould Shaw. For 10 points, name this Confessional poet of "Skunk Hour" and "For the Union Dead".
Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV [or "Cal" Lowell]
5

106619-)
A W.H. Auden essay about this author dubs the inability to consciously turn wishes into desireshis namesake "disease". One of this man's characters left Des Moines after an incident involvingRomola Martin and has unusually large hands. That character, who is attacked by a mob afterstomping on Adore Loomis, competes for Faye Greener with a set painter who wants to paint TheBurning of (*) Los Angeles. This creator of Homer Simpson and Tod Hackett also wrote a novel whoseChrist-obsessed narrator is shot by Peter Doyle after spending most of the book being mocked by his editorShrike and answering letters from "Desperate" and "Sick-of-it-all". For 10 points, name this author of TheDay of the Locust and Miss Lonelyhearts.
Nathanael West [or Nathan von Wallenstein Weinstein]
5

106635-)
In one scene, this character lies on his back and pedals his feet while saying "I'm losing weight, you notice, Pop?" In his last appearance, this character vows to stay "right in this city" and "beat this racket." This character pretends to be a champagne salesman while attempting to seduce a woman at a restaurant, to whom he introduces another character as the quarterback of the New York Giants. This man plans to create a sporting goods line with his older brother and repeatedly tells their mother that he's planning on getting married. After abandoning his father at Stanley's restaurant, this serial liar is berated by his mother Linda. For 10 points, name this character from Arthur Miller's Death of a Salesman, a son of Willy Loman and the younger brother of Biff.
Happy Loman [or Harold Loman; prompt on "Loman"]
7

106667-)
In this novel, a woman breaks off relations with her valet after he catches her covering her smallpox-disfigured face with powder. Its last chapter includes a chart assessing, on a scale from -10 to 10, the goodness, piety, and usefulness of several people. A man in this novel dies of an infection after cutting his knee on a piece of metal, which leads him to deliriously confess his love for the actress La Perichole. This novel's protagonist condenses his investigation of the main event into a book that is deemed heretical and burned along with him in a town square. In this novel, Brother Juniper watches as Jaime, Uncle Pio, Esteban, Pepita, and the Marquesa de Montemayor fall to their deaths. For 10 points, name this novel in which a rickety Peruvian structure collapses, by Thornton Wilder.
The Bridge of San Luis Rey
7

106670-)
The title character of a story by this author is known only as "Honig" until he is several months old. In another story by this man, a narrator trying to reach the shore laments, "I have seen the best swimmers of my generation go under." In another story, he mixed notes such as "description of physical appearance and mannerisms is one of several standard methods of characterization" into the narrative. This author of "Ambrose His Mark" wrote "Night-Sea Journey" about sperm cells, and showed Magda on a trip to an Ocean City attraction in Lost in the Funhouse. In a novel by this author, Henry Burlingame looks for the truth about his birth and Ebenezer Cooke writes a satirical poem about colonial Maryland. For 10 points, name this postmodern American author of The Sot-Weed Factor.
John Simmons Barth Jr.
7

106694-)
A poem about this character says of him, "easy as the narrow snake he forked his way along," and concludes, "Than sea and continent there is a larger: it is woe." He is compared favorably with a character who "supplants the balm" from a "consummate cluster" in another poem. The speaker observes, "Now, when I read, I read not," in a poem claiming this character "sets a thing significant." The speaker recalls, "He knew no haste and I had put away my labor and my leisure too" in another poem about him, in which "we passed the school, where children strove at recess in the ring." That poem about this character concludes with the image of horses' heads pointed toward eternity as they pull a carriage. For 10 points, name this personification for whom Emily Dickinson "could not stop."
Death [or Mortality; or the Frost of Death]
7

106702-)
In one play by this author, Risa purposely scars her legs to deflect attention from men, and Memphis Lee tries to negotiate a fair price for a restaurant that is about to be demolished. In another play by this man, a series of mysterious deaths are blamed on the "Ghosts of the Yellow Dog," and a more visible ghost wrestles with a man until they both hear music and the sound of a train whistle. A third play by this author of Two Trains Running ends with Gabriel sounding a trumpet to open the gates of Heaven for an adulterous ex-baseball player. That character, Troy Maxson, becomes the first black garbage truck driver in this author's common setting of the Hill district. For 10 points, name this playwright whose ten-play Pittsburgh Cycle includes The Piano Lesson and Fences.
August Wilson
7

106729-)
In this novel, the protagonist's life is saved when Magdalena warns him that her husband, Buck Scales, has killed four previous travelers. The title character of this novel convinces a widow to reveal her true age so that she will not be denied her inheritance. In this novel, the owner of a wooden parrot relates a story in which a friar kills a boy with a goblet for spilling some gravy, which results in that friar being thrown off a plateau. That storyteller, Father Jesus de Baca, also tells a story about a portrait of St. Joseph that can produce rain. Near the end of this work, the title character's body is placed in front of the altar of the cathedral he built. For 10 points, name this novel about Father Jean Marie Latour's attempts to revive Catholicism in New Mexico, written by Willa Cather.
Death Comes for the Archbishop
7

106742-)
In a later essay reflecting on this work, its author described the Woodland Road Camp's use of loudspeakers under pillows and included such chapters as "The Arts of Selling" and "What Can Be Done?" One character in this novel ultimately becoms dissilusioned at the "orgyporgy," while another threatens to exile people to Iceland. The Arch-Community-Songster appears in this novel, which opens with a description of how to create clones in the Bokanovsky Process. In it, Lenina and Bernard journey to New Mexico to see John the Savage before a revolt against the use of soma causes Bernard to meet Mustapha Mond. For 10 points, name this Aldous Huxley novel. 
Brave New World
7

106752-)
One character in this novel takes a baboon to the opera and makes opportunistic use of proxy sperm to avoid paternity suits. The narrator meets an employee of "Islam Incorporated" and is told that homosexuality is a political crime after seeing the I.N.D.s created by Dr. Benway. The Factualist-Liquefactionist dispute is at the background of this book, in which the Rumpus Room serves such delicacies as "mugwump fluid" and the "Black Meat" of a giant centipede. It takes place mostly in a composite of Panama, New York, Louisiana, and Tangier called Interzone. For 10 points, name this tale of the addicted exterminator Bill Lee, written by William S. Burroughs. 
Naked Lunch
7

106761-)
He wrote a of knife-sharpener who charms a woman into giving him flowers so he can resell the flowerpot in "The Chrysanthemums," a story from his collection The Long Valley. His journey on the Western Flyer with Edward Ricketts was the basis for The Sea of Cortez, and one of his novels describes Mac and Jim Nolan's attempt to unionize fruit pickers. Another of his novels sees a main character shot after saying "Le's do it now" following the accidental death of Curley's wife. This author of In Dubious Battle and The Winter of Our Discontent described the Trask family in East of Eden. For 10 points, name this author of Cannery Row and The Grapes of Wrath. 
John Steinbeck
7

106803-)
Thomas Campbell cribbed this poem's line "the hunter and the deer, a shade!" for his poem "O'Conor's Child." An image in this poem's eighth stanza is compared to a "pale Shebah" because of its braided hair. Its narrator commands a stranger "that shall come this way" to "observe the swelling turf." Much of this poem is given to a description of a "lofty rock," on which "the curious eye may trace" images of an aged elm, a restless queen, and a hunter chasing a deer. The narrator believes that "Reason's self shall bow the knee to shadows and delusions" at the central site. The narrator suggests that the central subject has assumed a sitting posture to prepare for "activity, that knows no rest," while the horizontal posture of the his own race "Points out the soul's eternal sleep." FTP, name this poem which includes an encounter with a "painted chief, and pointed spear," a work of Philip Freneau.
"The Indian Burying Ground"
9

106904-)
An emotional scene in this novel occurs when the protagonist mis-cuts a plug of tobacco, which causes her to be scolded by her husband. She talks back, and he hits her and refuses to talk to her. After that man dies, the woman leaves for Florida with a man who entertained her with checker games. At one point in this novel, the protagonist spends time "on de muck," picking beans. One character in this novel is infected with rabies by a dog, which causes him to attempt to shoot his wife. That wife was first married to Logan Killicks, who takes her from her home with Nanny, but later weds Tea Cake. For 10 points, identify this novel about Janie Stark, written by Zora Neale Hurston. 
Their Eyes Were Watching God
7

106908-)
At the end of this work, one character becomes engaged to Hazel, who is thought to have been conceived when his supposed father was fighting the Mexican War, and one character suggests to Orin that he kill himself. Near the beginning of this work, after one character sends Captain Brant away, he sends her poison, which she gives to Ezra when he has a quarrel-induced heart attack. That character, Christine, is the mother of the woman who gets engaged to Peter, Lavinia.  For 10 points, identify this adaptation of the Orestia concerning the Mannon family, a trilogy by Eugene O'Neill which consists of Homecoming, The Hunted, and The Haunted. 
Mourning Becomes Electra [accept The Haunted before "Captain Brant" is read]
7

106911-)
Critic Gary Smith has suggested that the final six words of this poem refer to a rape and to an Elizabethan euphemism for sex. This poem first appeared in a collection whose title poem refers to an "old yellow pair" who use "tin flatware," The Bean Eaters. Its author said that it was inspired by people she saw one day who seemed to be saying "Kilroy is here" and that, when reading it aloud, the first word of every sentence is to be spoken in a soft voice. It takes place at the Golden Shovel, a pool hall, where the speakers "lurk late" and "sing sin." For 10 points, "we Jazz June," "we left school," and "we die soon" in what poem by Gwendolyn Brooks?
"We Real Cool"
7

106917-)
One character in this story can whistle the theme song to "Popeye", indicating that she is not actually brain-damaged, though it is still unknown whether she was adopted or born out of wedlock. Another character has never cut his beard. Minor characters in this story include the aforementioned Shirley-T and Papa-Daddy, as well as the traveling photographer Whitaker, the main character's ex-boyfriend who ran off with her sister instead. That act is just one of the many perceived injuries perpetrated on the main character by Stella-Rondo, whose return prompts the title action. For 10 points, name this short story by Eudora Welty, in which Sister leaves home for her place of work. 
"Why I Live at the P.O."
7

106930-)
A man with this first name outbids Jackson Wylie's Atlantic Bridge Company to build a bridge over the Barrata River in Rex Beach's "With Interest to Date." Another man of this first name accompanies Philip Sterling on a get-rich-quick land speculation scheme in The Gilded Age. In addition to the aforementioned Mr. Brierly, Verena Tarrant loves a man surnamed Burrage in The Bostonians with this first name. Authors with this middle name include the author of Two Years Before The Mast, while those with this first name include a man who told of his "Education." For 10 points, give this name, also used in the pseudonym of the writer of "The Gift of the Magi." 
Henry
7

106953-)
In his latest work, a Doctor tries to help a Mother who confuses her twin sons otto and the identity-stealing OTTO; verbal hilarity ensues. He also wrote a piece at the end of which Julia turns to alcohol, like Agnes's sister, Claire. He also wrote about an elderly couple and two giant lizards, while in another play, the cast, including a musician and calisthenics-performing Angel of Death, break the fourth wall and pretend that the titular object is a beach. He also described Honey and Nick's disastrous visit to the home of George and Martha. For 10 points, name this playwright of A Delicate Balance. The Sandbox, The Zoo Story, and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
Edward Franklin Albee III
7

106998-)
This man described the events leading up to Julius Caesar's assassination in his epistolary novel The Ides ofMarch. This author created a character who settles down in Newport, Rhode Island, after going there to buy a car inthe novel Theophilus North. In another work, Brother Juniper witnesses the deaths of five people as the titlestructure collapses in Peru. Another play by this author of The Bridge of San Luis Rey follows the maid Sabina andthe Antrobus family, and in a different play, this writer depicted George Gibbs and Emily Webb in Grover'sCorners. For 10 points, name this American writer who created plays such as The Skin of Our Teeth and Our Town.
Thornton Wilder
3

107005-)
"In silence in dreams' projections," this poet is faithful and "[does] not give out" as a flame burns "deep in [his]breast" while "with impassive hand" he dresses wounds. This poet tells "a shy and hidden" "gray-brown bird" "inthe swamp in secluded recesses" to "sing on, warble your reedy song" while he sings "a reminiscence" of hischildhood "Out of the mocking-bird's throat," and "Out of the cradle endlessly rocking." This poet "shall mournwith the ever-returning spring," when the "lilac blooming perennial and drooping star in the west" makes him think"of him I love." For 10 points, name this poet of "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" and Leaves of Grass.
Walter "Walt" Whitman
3

107034-)
Susanna is sent by Dr. Griggs at the beginning of this work, and one character forgets the seventhcommandment. Willard throws one character out of a courtroom after that character accuses Thomas Putnam ofstealing his land in this work. Ezekiel Cheever discovers a needle inside a poppet sewn by Mary Warren, leading toElizabeth's arrest. Betty lies unconscious during this work after Reverend Parris discovers a ceremony led by theslave Tituba. After Abigail accuses him of witchcraft, John Proctor is hanged at the end of this work. For 10 points,name this play written by Arthur Miller as a response to McCarthyism, describing the Salem witch trials.
The Crucible
3

107043-)
One section of this work describes a certain "immovable" figure "twitching his skin like a horse that feels a flea" after presenting a list including "a wild horse taking a roll" and "a tireless wolf under a tree". Another section of this poem notes the usefulness of "hands that can grasp, eyes that can dilate," and "hair that can rise if it must". A revision to this poem made late in its author's life cut it to just three lines. This poem's speaker warns of discriminating against "business documents and schoolbooks" and awaits the emergence of "literalists of the imagination". Its speaker expresses hope that the title discipline can "present for inspection imaginary gardens with real toads in them", and it begins with the line "I, too, dislike it". FTP, name this poem written by Marianne Moore about her own vocation.
"Poetry"
9

107050-)
Five pages of this novel are entirely filled with two women calling each other different synonyms for prostitute in alternating English and French. This novel includes the revelation of the secret of the Sacred Eggplant, a recipe for enhancing sexual prowess. The protagonist saves a slave he calls Drakepecker after escaping from pirates with his valet Bertram, and he's forced into marrying the pox-ridden whore Joan Toast after inadvertently giving away his father's estate of Malden. The protagonist is followed to America by his twin sister Anna, and frequently encounters his former tutor, who disguises himself as people like John Coode and Francis Nicholson, and is named Henry Burlingame III. This novel is about a man given the title Poet and Laureate of Maryland by Lord Baltimore. FTP, name this novel about Eben Cooke, which is titled for a tobacco trader and written by John Barth.
The Sot-Weed Factor
9

107067-)
This author wrote mystery stories involving the Black Widowers and fantasy stories featuring a demon named Azazel. In one of his novels, Andrew Harlan operates a time-travel device known as a "kettle" as one of the Eternals, while in another an amnesiac discovers that Florina's sun is about to explode. Those early works, The End of Eternity and The Currents of Space, are peripherally related to this author's most famous series. In one novel, Golan Trevize and Janov Pelorat search for Earth, while earlier in the series the science of psychohistory is invented by Hari Seldon. For 10 points, name this science fiction author known for the Foundation series and I, Robot. 
Isaac Asimov 
7

107084-)
In one of this author's stories, Stella is introduced to the protagonist by her father Pinye Salzman. That story centers on a rabbinical student who is looking for a wife and falls in love with a photograph. Maurie Cohen is tutored by the talking bird Schwartz in "The Jewbird," another of his stories, while he also wrote or Helen's love for Frank Alpine, who is employed by her father, grocery store owner Morris Bober. In another novel, Bub Simpson is killed in an athletic accident and Max Mercy digs up dirt on the title character, as Harriet Bird shoots baseball player Roy Hobbs. For 10 points, name this author of The Magic Barrel, The Assistant, and The Natural. 
Bernard Malamud
7

107085-)
This author created the Fascist philospher Luigi Migliore in a novel about the death of Mason Flagg, whose main character is a painter from South Carolina named Cass Kinsolving. Harry Miller's wife jumps off a building in his novel about the Loftis family. In addition to Set This House on Fire and Lie Down in Darkness, this author of Tidewater Morning created an amoral soldier whose name means "somebody from nobody," Jemand von Niemand, in a novel about a woman who loves Nathan Landau and Stingo after surviving Auschwitz. He also wrote about an uprising in 1831 Virginia. For 10 points, name this author of Sophie's Choice and The Confessions of Nat Turner.
William Styron
7

107093-)
This author commanded "Phoebus make haste, the day's too long, be gone" in one poem, and another of this author's poems compares a contemporary leader to Semiramis, Zenobia, and Cleopatra. Ecclesiastes inspired this author to write "The Vanity of All Worldly Things," and this author described being "waken'd...with thund'ring noise" and the "fearful sound of 'fire'" in "Verses Upon the Burning of Our House." John Woodbridge secretly published the most famous collection of this author's poems, which included "The Author to Her Book" and "To My Dear and Loving Husband." For 10 points, name this colonial poet of The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.  
Anne Bradstreet 
7

107120-)
The title character of this work is also the title character of a four-act drama by J.S. Jones. Though she had a "gait in her hitch" she carried a switch to "aid her work of sin." Apparently the switch was made of a twig of wizard hazel where a mother had thrown "her nameless babe" into a stream of "running water and merciless stone." Her counsel was sought by sailors and surgeons alike, and she was said to have predicted in the invention of the radio. For 10 points, name this 900 line poem about an eighteenthy century New England fortune-teller and supposed witch, written by John Greenleaf Whittier, which has a similar name to a female hero of the Revolutionary War
"Moll Pitcher" [do not accept Molly Pitcher]
7

107128-)
One character in this book, whose maiden name was Mondragon, begins a relationship with John "No Relation" Wayne and is afraid of doors. Another character, Orin, is a serial womanizer and the kicker for the Arizona Cardinals whose hates his mother Avril. In this novel, Hal reads the Oxford English Dictionary and corrects other people's grammar, but by the chronological end of the novel during the Year of the Glad he becomes totally anti-social. For 10 points, name this novel in which one may find the Icandenza family, whose patriarch James founds the Enfield Tennis Academy, written by David Foster Wallace and named for a two-word phrase from Hamlet. 
Infinite Jest
7

107149-)
This author referred to the title location as the "morgue between Paris and Rome" in one poem. The narrator ofanother of this author's poems claims to be an arrow flying towards "the red / Eye, the cauldron of morning." Inanother poem, this author warned "Herr God, Herr Lucifer / Beware / Â… I eat men like air." This author of "LadyLazarus" admitted "I may be a bit of a Jew" while addressing "a man in black with a Meinkampf look," "Daddy." Inher only novel, this author wrote of Esther Greenwood's psychotherapy after an attempted suicide with sleeping pills.For 10 points, name this American author of the collection Ariel and The Bell Jar.
 Sylvia Plath [or Victoria Lucas]
3

107154-)
The epigraph to this novel is a poem supposedly written by Thomas Parke D'Invilliers. One character in thisnovel wears cufflinks of human molars and supposedly fixed the Black Sox Scandal. That character helped the titlecharacter become wealthy through a bootlegging operation. The eyes of T.J. Eckleburg watch over the Valley ofAshes in this novel, and George Wilson takes revenge on the title character for killing his wife. The title characterwatches the green dock light across the bay lives next door to the narrator, Nick Carraway. For 10 points, name thisnovel in which the title character hosts parties and pursues Daisy Buchanan, written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
 The Great Gatsby
3

107195-)
In this novel, Blake Andrews visits one character in prison, revealing that that character's brother Hugh hasmarried Lady Edith. A character in this novel uses an object that he finds in an ornamental suit of armor to crackopen nuts. Miles Hendon meets a character at the gates of the Guildhall and is later made an earl in this novel, andanother character who lives on Offal Court was taught Latin by Father Andrew. At the end of this novel, the firsttitle character returns the Great Seal to verify his identity at the second title character's coronation. For 10 points,name this novel by Mark Twain, detailing the adventures of Tom Canty and Edward Tudor after they switch places.
The Prince and the Pauper
3

107196-)
One character in this novel borrows a houndstooth jacket from the protagonist to wear on a date with Jean. Thatcharacter gets in a fight with the protagonist over a poem that describes green writing covering a baseball mitt. Theprotagonist of this novel tells women from Seattle that he has just seen Gary Cooper at the Lavender Room. He laterseeks advice from a former English teacher who strokes his head, Mr. Antolini. At the end of this novel, theprotagonist watches his sister Phoebe ride a carousel, several days after leaving Pencey Prep, a boarding school thathe thinks is full of "phonies." For 10 points, name this novel which centers on Holden Caulfield, by J.D. Salinger.
The Catcher in the Rye
3

107199-)
The speaker of this work echoes Ophelia at the end of the second section, saying, "Goodnight Bill. GoodnightLou. Goodnight May. Goodnight." The narrator of this work asks, "Who is the third who walks always beside you?"after noting, "But there is no water." In this poem, Madame Sosostris says, "Those are pearls that were his eyes"when describing the "drowned Phoenician sailor" in her "wicked pack of cards." Containing the sections "TheBurial of the Dead" and "A Game of Chess," this poem ends with the Sanskrit "shantih shantih shantih" in its lastsection, "What the Thunder Said." For 10 points, name this modernist poem that begins "April is the cruellestmonth," written by T.S. Eliot.
The Waste Land
3

107223-)
One of this author's poems describes the "juggler of day / Leaping like leopards to the Sky." This author of"Blazing in Gold and quenching in purple" also surmised that the title object was "Written by faded men" in "TheBible Is An Antique Volume." One of this author's poems describes the narrator "ReelingÂ—through endless summerdays / From inns of molten blue" and declares "Inebriate of airÂ—am I." This poet of "I taste a liquor never brewed"mentions a "blue, uncertain stumbling buzz," and another of her poems describes horses' heads turned "towardEternity." For 10 points, name this poet of "I heard a Fly buzz when I died" and "Because I could not stop forDeath."
Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
3

107255-)
 This character remembers an all-night arm-wrestling match he won as a young man, giving him the title "TheChampion." After a long journey, this character dreams of lions on an African beach while recalling his youth. Thischaracter often talks to a young boy about Joe DiMaggio and confides in Manolin that he would sail to Florida inorder to break his eighty-four-day unlucky streak. The blood of a fish caught by this character attracts a shark, whichthis character kills with a harpoon before returning home with an eighteen-foot marlin, thus regaining his reputation.For 10 points, name this fisherman and protagonist of Ernest Hemingway's novella The Old Man and the Sea.
Santiago [prompt on "the old man" until mentioned]
3

107264-)
 In a story by this author, William Legrand is bitten by the title insect before embarking on a treasure hunt, whilein his only novel, the title character stows on board the Grampus as it leaves port. This author of "The Gold Bug"and The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym described Prospero's attempt to evade the title disease by locking himselfin an abbey, and this man also describes the murder of Fortunato using the title container of wine. This author of"The Masque of the Red Death" and "The Cask of Amontillado" also describes a murderer who could still hear hisvulture-eyed victim's beating title object. For 10 points, name this author of "The Tell-Tale Heart" and "TheRaven."
Edgar Allan Poe
3

107297-)
This author wrote of the Columbia professor Bill Everhart and Wesley Martin, and in another work, the centralcharacter recounts a fantasy in which he envisions various creatures gathering near a castle in Lowell to awaken theGreat World Snake. Besides The Sea is My Brother and Doctor Sax, this author wrote a novel in which the narratorremembers climbing the Matterhorn Peak in California with Japhy Ryder. This author of The Dharma Bums wrote awork in which the protagonist meets Old Bull Lee in New Orleans. Neal Cassady is fictionalized as Dean Moriartyin that novel, which is narrated by Sal Paradise. For ten points, name this Beat Generation author of On the Road.
 Jean-Louis "Jack" Kerouac
3

107314-)
The narrator of one of this man's poems declares that "[she's] still climbin'" although life "ain't been no crystalstair." In another poem, this poet writes that "[he] is the darker brother" but will "eat well, and grow strong." Thispoet of "Mother to Son" and "I, Too, Sing America" describes hearing a man sing "'Ain't got nobody in thisworld'" before he "stopped playing and went to bed" in a work that titles his collection The Weary Blues. In anotherpoem, this man states that he "bathed in the Euphrates" and that "[his] soul has grown deep like" the title bodies ofwater. For 10 points, name this poet of the Harlem Renaissance who wrote "The Negro Speaks of Rivers."
James Mercer Langston Hughes
3

107336-)
One character in this novel notices the phrase "At Yo' Service" on a statue while speaking to Janey, and thatcharacter's mother is employed at Mr. Sawyer's restaurant. One character rushes the abolitionist Mr. Bodwin withan icepick at the end of this novel when she mistakes him for schoolteacher. This novel's protagonist is guidedacross the Ohio River by Stamp Paid. Denver grows jealous of Paul D after he arrives at 124 Bluestone Road, ahouse previously inhabited by Baby Suggs and haunted by the ghost of the protagonist's daughter. For 10 points,name this novel about the former slave Sethe's infanticide of the title character, written by Toni Morrison.
Beloved
3

107362-)
One character in this play performs a traditional tribal dance while chanting "OCOMOGOSIAY" ("oh-coh-mohgo-say").That character is later joined by another character who skips work for three days in order to listen to hisfavorite jazz duo at the Green Hat Bar. In this play, a down payment made by the main characters on a house inClybourne Park leads to a visit by Karl Lindner. Following advice from Joseph Asagai, one character in this playstraightens her hair; that character is Beneatha. For 10 points, name this play that chronicles the result of a large lifeinsurance payout received by the Younger family, a work by Lorraine Hansberry
A Raisin in the Sun
3

107375-)
In one of his books, Moll Robbins is looking for a pornographic film Hitler supposedly made in his bunker. This man's third novel centers on a reclusive rock star named Bucky Wunderlick. That novel, The Great Jones Street, contains a fictional music magazine called Running Dog, which is also the name of one of his later novels. One of his major works ends with the sleazy Willie Mink being shot after the protagonist learns that he is trading drugs for sex with Babette. The drug "Dylar" appears in that novel, in which Jack Gladney is a professor in the field of "Hitler Studies." For 10 points, name this American author of The Body Artist, Cosmopolis, and White Noise.  
Don DeLillo
7

107389-)
In one part of this novel, the barber Del Snafflin leads a tiny orchestra in a production of The Girl from Kankakee. One subplot involves the ambitious Miles Bjornstam and his wife Bea Sorenson, who dies of typhoid fever along with her son. The protagonist scandalizes the Jolly Seventeen with her views on librarians, and she fails to produce Androcles and the Lion with the Thanatopsis Club. After her son Hugh is born, she has a brief flirtation with the tailor Erik Valborg and flees to Washington, which she finds similar to her husband's home town. For 10 points, name this Sinclair Lewis novel set in Gropher Prairie, centering on Will and Carol Kennicott.  
Main Street
7

107411-)
In one of this man's novels, the adolescent Effie Bowen machinates to have her widowed mother, rather than Imogene Graham, marry the American architect studying in Italy, Theodore Colville. This author of the play Out of the Question also described Fulkerson's purchase of a magazine from Dryfoos in a book where a one-armed man named Lindau is beaten by police. Squire Gaylord dies during a divorce proceeding in another of his books. This creator of protaganists Basil March and Bartley Hubbard also wrote of the courtship of Irene and Persis at the home of a Boston paint magnate. For 10 points, name this writer of A Modern Instance and The Rise of Silas Lapham. 
William Dean Howells 
7

107420-)
Her novels about Maggie Blackburn's realization of the rape of Brendan Bauer and Molly Marks' affairs with psychiatrist brothers McEwan are titled Nemesis and Lives of the Twins, and written under the pseudonym Rosamnd Smith. Her poems are collected in Invisible Woman and I Lock My Door Upon Myself, and she recently wrote The Tattooed Girl and Sexy. She is known for a family history, Bellefleur, and a trilogy including Expensive People and them. The murder of Tucson girls inspired the Gothic element in her most anthologized story. For 10 points, nname this author of A Garden of Earthly Delights and "Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?" 
Joyce Carol Oates
7

107436-)
This author's short stories "The Solitary," "The Entomologist," and "The Taxidermist" appear in the collection Strong Hearts. He wrote polemicals inclduing John March, Southerner and the essays "The Silent South" and "The Negro Question," while he tells of a quadroon lass's attempt to get hitched in the novelette Madame Delphine. In a better known work, Agricola Fusilier duels Aurora's father when he accuses him of cheating at cards and the legend of the enslaved African prince Bras-Coupe is told. For 10 points, name this New Orleans local colorist who wrote about the Frowenfelds and De Grapions in The Grandissimes and also wrote Old Creole Days.     
George Washington Cable
7

107458-)
One of this author's characters is ordered killed by "Joe the Egg." Another character has flings with both a woman nicknamed "Mau Mau" and Arthur Lecomte. In addition to a novel about the sexually confused Art Beckstein, this author wrote an alternate history about the Federal District of Sitka, where Berko Shemets and Meyer Landsman work in a Jewish homeland that was set up in Alaska after the immediate collapse of Israel in 1948. In another of his novels, a title character is called before Congress to testify about sexual innuendo in The Escapist. For 10 points, name this author of The Yiddish Policeman's Union and The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay. 
Michael Chabon
7

107481-)
This essay quotes a line about "a drab of state, a cloth-o'-silver slut" after using the example of someone who steals a plank from a drowning man to refute William Paley. It asks why the majority "crucif[ies] Christ and excommunicate[s] Copernicus and Luther" after denouncing the "standing army...militia, jailers, constables" who act "not as men mainly, but as machines." This essay begins by endorsing the idea that "that government is best which governs least" and recounts its author's imprisonment for refusing to pay a poll tax. For 10 points, name this essay by Henry David Thoreau that advocates refusing to support unjust governments.
"Civil Disobedience"
7

107502-)
This poem describes a sort of person who, "whatever the survey, whatever the sea and sail" "strikessoundings at last only here." An earlier section of this poem distinguishes love "by allowance" from love"with personal love," saying of "a common farmer -- the father of five sons" that "you would wish to sit byhim in the boat, that you and he might touch each other." The speaker of this poem wishes to "swim withthe swimmers, wrestle with the wrestlers, march in line with the firemen, pause, listen and count." Later, itdescribes the auction of the male and female forms, then launches into an exhaustive anatomical catalogue,concluding that these are "parts and poems" of the soul, and, indeed "these are the Soul!" This poem'sspeaker states that "the armies of those I love engirth me, and I engirth them." For 10 points, name thiscelebration of the physical human being, a poem by Walt Whitman.
 "I Sing the Body Electric"
9

107526-)
This author wrote a satirical story in which Harviss encourages Professor Linyard to produce morebestsellers despite the scientist's aversion to pseudoscience; that story's title references Darwin's tome onsexual selection. Robert Elwell killed himself after being locked out of a promotion in the Blue Star Mine,and his vengeful spirit haunts the house at Lyng in this author's story "Aftermath," part of her Tales of Menand Ghosts. In her best-known short story, a woman reveals that she "had Barbara" from a one-night standwith Delphin, the husband of Alida Slade, having read a note instructing the two to meet at the Coliseum. Adisastrous party on the yacht Sabrina and a looming debt owed to Gus Trenor force the love interest ofLawrence Selden to kill herself in a novel by this author. For 10 points, name this author who drew onthemes from her stories "The Descent of Man" and "Roman Fever" to write novels like The House of Mirth.
Edith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones]
9

107557-)
One poem in this collection mentions the uselessness of "your sword &amp; gun, your lance of steel / yourcannon... and your powder too" without "mine aid." Another poem compares the speaker's life to a "spider'sweb cut off," and was written about the author's "fit of fainting." A description of how "The Fire, Air,Earth, and Water did contest / Which was the strongest, noblest, and the best" opens its "Four Elements;"this collection also includes "four humours" and "four monarchies." The lines "the world no longer let melove; My hope and Treasure lies above" end another poem, whose speaker was "waken'd with thund'ringnoise" to the "fearful sound of 'fire' and 'fire.'" Later, this collection was emended with a poem addressingthe "ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain." For 10 points, name this collection that includes "VersesUpon the Burning of Our House," a major work by Anne Bradstreet.
The Tenth Muse, lately Sprung up in America, or Several Poems Compiled with Great Variety of Wit and Learning, Full of Delight, Wherein especially is Contained a Complete Discourse and Description of the Four Elements, Constitutions, Ages of Man, Seasons of the Year, together with an exact Epitome of the Four Monarchies, viz., The Assyrian, Persian, Grecian, Roman, Also a Dialogue between Old England and New, concerning the late troubles. With divers other pleasand and serious Poems, By a Gentlewoman in those parts
9

107565-)
Jules Bledsoe interrupted one performance of this play to lecture some hecklers about proper theatermanners. The title character of this play is afraid of several shapeless creatures known as the "little formlessfears" and comes across a crouching man shaking dice, whom he recognizes as Jeff, a man he murdered forcheating in a dice game. The constant sound of tom-toms haunts the title character, who kills a crocodilesummoned by a priest just before being cornered by the white overseer Smithers and several rebellioussubjects. In its Provincetown Players-staged premiere, Charles Sidney Gilpin played the title role inblackface. For 10 points, name this drama in which ex-Pullman Porter Brutus cultivates a legend that hecan only be killed with a silver bullet, written by Eugene O'Neill.
The Emperor Jones
9

107599-)
In one play by this author, a woman chastises her husband for using their baby food money to securethe down payment on a house. This author slammed New Republic theater critic Robert Brustein in hismanifesto "The Ground on Which I Stand." In another of his plays, a man complains about theincompetence of the stuttering Sylvester and treasures his expensive Florsheim shoes, stabbing Toledo foraccidentally stepping on them. In his most famous play, a woman admits to giving "eighteen years of mylife to stand in the same spot with you" after her learning of her husband's affair with Alberta; that husbandprevents his son Cory from playing football, bitter about having to give up his own boyhood dream tobecome a garbage-man. For 10 points, name this author of Jitney, Ma Rainey's Black Bottom, and Fences,three plays in his Pittsburgh cycle.
August Wilson
9

107620-)
Readers seem to like this author's character Hurricane Nell, who is capable of divination and livingunharmed among wild animals. In one novel by this author, a peddler who sells clocks that chimethirty-one times every day gets off scot-free thanks to the crooked lawyer Peter Pippin, and the coupleRalph and Edith fight against the title leader of the Pony Club. This author's strongest literary outputincludes a Gothic romance about a man who murders Emily and gets ratted out by his best friend, as well ashis sympathetic portrayal of a 1715 Indian uprising, but he's most notorious for one of his eight novelsabout the Revolutionary War, a prominent anti-Tom book. For 10 points, name this magnificently-beardedauthor of Guy Rivers, Martin Faber, The Yemassee, the racist Southerner author of The Sword and theDistaff.
William Gilmore Simms
9

107631-)
At the beginning of this story, two characters carry out a conversation interrupted several times by theirreluctance to drink some apparently disgusting tea. The penultimate sentence of this story is "they didn'twalk back to the house; they raced;" the final sentence tells us who won. One character in this storycombines "Taps" and "Reveille" into a weird bugle call and manages to get her son to cry by tossing him akeychain, even though the boy clearly sees through her charade of pretending to be an admiral. In thisstory, one character is upset that the maidservant Sandra called her mistress's husband "a big sloppy kike;"but when asked to define "kike," he says "It's one of those things that go up in the air." For 10 points, namethis story in which Boo Boo consoles her son Lionel, who runs away to the title watercraft, one of the NineStories by J.D. Salinger.
"Down at the Dinghy"
9

107650-)
This novel contains a reviled scene wherein a man explores every inch of his lover's body, then uses afluoroscope to look at her internal organs. A scientist in this novel attempts to find the point "where Tickbecomes Tock." This novel ends with a "Posttape," followed by a "Postscript to the Posttape," followedagain by a "Footnote to the Postscript to the Posttape," and includes a lengthy parody of Oedipus Rex titledTaliped Decanus. Its protagonist descends into the Furnace by making love to Anastasie, and tackles a"Boundary Dispute" to end the Cold War-esque "Quiet Riot" between the Western and Eastern axes of aworld-spanning university, in his role as Grand Tutor-in-training, which enables him to enter the "womb"of the supercomputer WESCAC. For 10 points, name this comic novel by John Barth, whose protagonistwas raised among animals.
Giles Goat-Boy
9

107683-)
In one of this author's stories, a woman jokes that gazpacho is a more leftist soup that vichyssoise, and aparty of characters including Day, Rachel, and Baxter, await the widower Jimmy, contra the title of thestory. This author wrote a novel in which the unfaithful poet Russ Byrd is idolized by Cynthia, who decidesto relocate the Baird family to Pineville, South Carolina, for a chance to meet him. In another story by her,a woman reflects on her lover Bruno and her landlady Frenaye, from her time as an international student inParis. This author of Southern Exposure broke out with that story, "Winter Rain." In her best known novel,Megan Greene befriends Lavinia, Peg, Cathy, and Janet at Radcliffe College, resembling the story of thisauthor's own escape from Fredericksburg to Stanford University. For 10 points, name this author ofSuperior Women, who shares her first and last name with the daughter of a glue factory owner from aBooth Tarkington novel.
Alice Adams
9

107684-)
One character in this novel sees a vision of his mother being strangled by flower bulbs which grewinstantaneously after she had planted them. Critics often draw a parallel between this novel and Faulkner'sstory "The Bear," because of a hunting trip during which the protagonist is suddenly attacked by a garrotewire and misfires his rifle. In this novel, the youngest member of the hit squad Seven Days helps theprotagonist loot a green tarp in the vain hope of finding some missing gold. The protagonist first appears atthe site of Robert Smith's suicidal leap and later journeys to Shalimar to learn his family history. Bytraveling to the house of his aunt Pilate and by befriending Guitar Bains, the protagonist angers his fatherMacon. For 10 points, name this bildungsroman about Milkman Dead, written by Toni Morrison.
Song of Solomon
9

107691-)
Flann O'Brien's At Swim-Two-Birds features a Pooka and a penniless fairy engaged in this activity, and in Leslie Marmon Silko's "Toe'osh," the narrator tells of how coyote lost his "proud, original" fur coat when doing it. In William Faulkner's "Was," Buck's freedom is attained after Buddy is successful at this activity, while Neil Simon's The Odd Couple opens with several characters participating in this activity. Tennessee Williams considered giving A Streetcar Named Desire a title concerning a night about this activity, in which Pablo, Steve, Mitch, and Stanley participate in the only titled scene of the play, while in another story, one character tells Tom Simson that when engaged in this activity, one doesn't "get tired, the luck gives in first." FTP, name this game, which John Oakhurst presumably played a lot in the title gambling town of a Bret Harte short story. 
playing poker [accept obvious equivalents] 
8

107707-)
In one of his poems this author speaks of "English poets who grew up on Greek," claiming, "I'd have them sing in chorus, cheek to cheek," and he asked, "What's madness but nobility of soul/At odds with circumstance" in another poem.  In the first chapter of Slaughterhouse Five, Kurt Vonnegut claims he took this man's poetry to read on a plane, including a villanelle that asks, "We think by feeling. What is there to know?" Longer poems include The Lost Son, and he talks about the whiskey on the breath of the title character in "My Papa's Waltz."  In a better-known poem he describes the "neckcurls, limp and damp as tendrils" of a girl who was "my student, thrown by a horse."  For 10 points name this author of "The Waking" and "Elegy for Jane." 
Theodore Roethke
8

107737-)
One character in this novel is afraid that rats will eat his face when he dies, while another is anxious over whether she will be buried in an old calico dress.  Three of this novel's characters mistake a brothel for a hotel, leading to one becoming a prostitute for the night.  Another character is likened to a "houndÂ…when he got the itch" as she slides her naked rear end across the grass in an attempt to seduce a man who had earlier bought his wife for seven dollars and some quilts.  The youngest character travels to Fuller with Bessie, a woman with no nose, to buy a new Ford in which they eventually kill an African-American man and the grandmother of the central family, while the hare-lipped Ellie May goes with Luv after Pearl runs off.  A fire set by Jeeter leads to his and Ada's death at the end of, for 10 points, what novel about the sharecropping Lester family by Erskine Caldwell? 
Tobacco Road 
8

107742-)
One character in this book believes he is being punished by God for having affairs with Eskimo women, and another reveals his sheltered white lifestyle by declaring that there were "no Negroes" and "no immigrants" in the United States during his childhood. A different character attempts to beseech the Vice-President for help after her black lover is assaulted by racists and buries their biracial child in the flower garden,  A character who makes bombs for the Zapatistas in Mexico and has a brief affair with Evelyn Nesbit is known only as Younger Brother, while Coalhouse Walker is a piano player who links the white and black narratives. Historical events in this novel include the sinking of the Lusitania, Freud's 1909 lectures at Clark University, and the murder of architect Stanford White. For 10 points, name this novel by E.L. Doctorow about the early twentieth century, whose title refers to a then-popular style of music. 
Ragtime 
8

107770-)
The fourth essay in Lionel Trilling's The Liberal Imagination is on this novel, and places its protagonist within the tradition of the "Young Man from the Provinces". The plot of this novel is set in motion by a meeting in a theater box during a performance of The Pearl of Paraguay. The protagonist has an affair with the resident of Medley Hall. Early on, Mrs. Bowerbank chaperones the protagonist as he visits his dying mother in Millbank prison. One character has an invalid sister named Rosy, who's attended to by the noblewoman, Lady (*) Aurora. The fiddler Mr. Vetch is the only friend of the dressmaker who raised Amanda Pynsent. She's given the task of assassinating a duke by Hoffendahl, whom he met through Paul Muniment. The title character of this novel previously appeared in the author's earlier novel Roderick Hudson, and is named Christina Light. FTP, name this novel in which Hyacinth Robinson gets involved with revolutionary politics and the title royal figure, a book written by Henry James. 
The Princess Casamassima 
9

107792-)
This author wrote about marine biologist Guy Schuler and Irish aristocrat Peter Gregory in his unpublished play Whales and Men. One of his novels opens with an epigraph by Paul Valery that "your ideas are terrifying and your hearts are faint," followed by a quote from Jakob Boehme that "sorrow is a thing that is swallowed up in death." A character created by this author is jailed for having sex with watermelons and befriends an upper class man who's abandons his wife to live on a houseboat in McAnally Flats - that character is Gene Harrogate. Another of this writer's characters shares his name with a radio evangelist who hosts the Jimmy Blevins Gospel Hour.  This author, whose first novel was The Orchard Keeper, wrote about the siblings Culla and Rinthy in his next book Outer Dark. FTP, name this American author of Suttree, who wrote about Lacy Rawlins and his friend John Grady Cole in All the Pretty Horses.
Cormac McCarthy
9

107806-)
This author critiqued Stanley Edgar Hyman in his essay "'Change the Joke and Slip the Yoke'' and responded to an Irving Hower review from the magazine New Leader in the essay "The Word and the Jug." In one novel, Sister Bearmaster prevents a red-headed woman from grabbing a protagonist, who she claims is her son Cudworth, when he rises from a coffin as a stunt. This author included the sections "The Seer and the Seen" and "Sound and the Mainstream" in an essay collection titled for a review of the film version of Intruders in the Dust. This author's second novel describes a man who changes his name from Bliss after abandoning his black adopted father Reverend Alonzo Hickman to become the racist senator Adam Sunraider. This author of Shadow and Act expanded his short story "Battle Royale" into a novel ending when the protagonist fights Ras the Exhorter during riots in Harlem. FTP, name this black writer who never published his novel Juneteenth during his lifetime, after the success of his first novel Invisible Man. 
Ralph Ellison  
9

107817-)
The second act of this play begins at the Idlewild Airport with a speaker announcing, "Frankfurt is now unloading at gate nine." This play's set appears as a "gray landscape" divided into three levels suggesting a "lava-like, supple geography" dominated by the looming "tower. . . with rods sticking out it like broken tentacles." An archaeologist relates a dream about kissing a monstrous baby to convince the protagonist to forgive himself after visiting a Nazi concentration camp. Lou commits suicide after his friend Mickey testifies against him for knowingly including erroneous information in his book about Soviet law. The protagonist addresses an unseen "Listener" while sitting on a chair that serves as the only furniture on a blank stage, symbolizing that the plot takes place in his mind. That protagonist ruminates whether he should marry his fiancÃ©e Holga throughout the play while grappling with the suicide of his second wife Maggie. The middle-aged lawyer Quentin reminisces about his lovers in, FTP, what surreal play inspired by its author's marriage to Marilyn Monroe, a play written by Arthur Miller? 
After the Fall 
9

107820-)
One anecdote in this novel describes a nudist dentist who doesn't cut his hair, who receives a signed statement from his wife saying that he's the father of only two of the four children he raised. One character discusses the difference between the "real soul" and "pretender soul" and shows his poem entitled "Mechanism Vs. Functionalism: Ism Vs. Hism." A blind man tells his proudest memory of Teddy Roosevelt kicking him off the beach after the Battle of San Juan Hill because he was from the Navy when the protagonist helps Mr. Rappaport cross the street to buy cigars. The main character goes to Hollywood when he's recruited by talent agent Maurice Venice, and he's later convinced to invest his last seven hundred dollars into lard stocks. Dr. Adler refuses to pay his son's bill for Hotel Gloriana after the protagonist foolishly gives control of his money to the dubious Dr. Tamkin. FTP, name this novel about Tommy Wilhelm written by Saul Bellow, and titled after a quote from Horace.
Seize the Day
9

107840-)
When considering the priorities of the "younger sons," this work concludes that "It is too late to be studying Hebrew; it is more important to understand even the slang of to-day." An alliterative passage linking the etymologies of via and villa to ved and vella and to the modern words "vile" and "villain" is found early in this essay, which includes a lengthy poem about "The Old Marlboro Road." This work explains that a synonym of its title word is derived from medieval idlers who go around asking for charity and pretending to go a la sainte terre prior to explaining that each instance of the title action is like a crusade preached by Peter the Hermit. This essay's second section contains numerous accounts describing eastern stagnation and western adventure, explaining why its author always sets his compass needle south-west or west. This essay was a favorite lecture topic of its author's, who died a month before it was published in the Atlantic Monthly in 1862. Containing the quote "In Wilderness is the preservation of the world," FTP, name this early pro-environmental essay, in which Thoreau explains why he likes going on strolls.
"Walking"  
9

107843-)
At the end of Emily Dickinson's poem "I Taste a Liquor Never Brewed," she quotes the sixth stanza of this poem by using the line "to the windows run," but she inverts the meaning in this poem by having the saints come to the window to see Christ's return. This poem's second stanza has the line "The best of men had scarcely then/Their Lamps kept in good ure," referring to the parable of the ten virgins in Matthew. Its prefatory cites First Corinthians when the speaker notes he has "adventured/To play the fool this once for Christ." The 100th and final stanza begins, "Without true faith, the scriptures saith,/God cannot take delight." Written by its author after his other work, Meat Out of the Eater, this poem bears the subtitle "a poetical description of the great and last judgment, and was the most widely read book besides the Bible in 17th century America. FTP, name this didactic poem by Michael Wigglesworth.
"The Day of Doom"
9

107890-)
In one play by this author, the writer John Morley transforms from gay to straight in the second act. He also adapted S. Ansky's play The Dybbuk into a work about drunken lawyer Arthur Landau trying to complete a prayer quorum in Long Island. In addition to The Latent Homosexual and The Tenth Man, he adapted a William Huie novel into a screenplay about Lt. Charlie Madison, who tells the title character not to blame World War II "on our Coca-Cola bottles." He wrote about a professor studying schizophrenia in his only novel, the sci-fi book Altered States. One of this man's films sees Arthur Jensen, played by Ned Beatty, give a monologue about corporations to Howard Beale. He received his first Academy Award for writing the 1955 film Marty, but may be better known for writing the line "I'm as mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore!" FTP, name this Jewish playwright who wrote Network. 
Sidney Aaron "Paddy" Chayefsky
9

107893-)
This ideology of this author is examined along with Henry James and F. Scott Fitzgerald in Bryan Washington's book Politics of Exile. James Campbell wrote a biography of this man entitled Talking at the Gates. This writer's death caused another author to write "His Voice Remembered; Life in His Language." This man collaborated with photographer Richard Avedon on Nothing Personal, and wrote about Arthur Montana and his family in the novel Just Above My Head. This author of the essay collection The Price of the Ticket also wrote a work about Rufus Scott, who commits suicide jumping off the George Washington Bridge. Another work has characters like Ida Jackson and Brother Washington, and centers on a Harlem church led by Margaret Alexander. In addition to that play The Amen Corner, he wrote about Jacques, David, Guillaume and some homosexuals in Paris. FTP, name this author of Another Country, Giovanni's Room, and Go Tell It on the Mountain.
James Arthur Baldwin
9

107898-)
An obituary written for this man under the pseudonym "Ludwig" quotes Nathaniel Willis and ends with the Macbeth reference that "after life's fitful fever he sleeps well" - that obituary was written by Rufus Griswold in the New York Tribune. Some posthumously published poems of Elizabeth Bishop were released in 2006 in a collection titled for this man and the jukebox. A "psychoanalytic interpretation" of this man was written by Marie Bonaparte, with a foreword by Sigmund Freud. Henry James said an enthusiasm for this man was the mark "of a decidedly primitive stage of reflection" and criticized Baudelaire for translating him. Jules Verne wrote The Sphinx of the Ice Fields as a sequel to one of this man's works, The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket. FTP, name this husband of Virginia Clemm who wrote "Sonnet to Science" and "The Tell-Tale Heart." 
Edgar Allan Poe
9

107921-)
A minor character in this story is Sandor Rojas, an ex-Hungarian freedom fighter who "plays spit in the ocean" with his three friends, and stays awake on Heidseck and benzedrine pills. The textbook Handbook of Chemistry and Physics is ironically thrown at a character's head during an argument with his wife about "communication theory," and a group of Navy sailors barge in thinking they're at a brothel. The above characters sit around and listen to the Duke di Angelis Quartet, who recorded the 10'' LP Songs of Outer Space, while they're at the lease-breaking party thrown by Meatball Mulligan. Elsewhere, Aubade breaks a window after the death of a parrot nursed by Callisto, who sits in his apartment  awaiting the heat-death of the universe. Collected in Slow Learner, FTP, name this story  by Thomas Pynchon, which repeatedly refers to laws of thermodynamics.  
"Entropy"
9

107962-)
One character in this novel remarks that southerners have lost the "Walter Scott dignity and chivalry" possessed by earlier generations.  Another character who has a pet bird named Gypsum speaks highly of the Miss Woodburn and her father, a pro-slavery retired army officer.  Other characters in this novel include a one-armed socialist and the charity-inclined Margaret Vance.  Names considered for the central endeavor of this novel include "The Lone Hand" and "The Syndicate," though it is eventually named for the frequency of its appearance.  Conrad is killed while trying to save Mr. Lindau during a streetcar riot, which leads to him moving to Europe after selling Every Other Week to Mr. Fulkerson and Basil March.  For 10 points name this novel in which the Dryfoos family's use of their recently acquired wealth goes awry, a work of William Dean Howells. 
A Hazard of New Fortunes 
8

107986-)
One part of this work says "with your tongue remove the tape" and compares the breath of the subject to "bright beads on yellow globes." Another part follows a dancer who resents being ogled by a "dictie" and cries after being silently rejected. The "cornfield concubines" "sing like virgins" at the end of "Georgia Dusk," one part of this work, while the last section discusses a man who is fired from his teaching job for drinking moonshine and becomes a blacksmith after discussing, with Halsey and Lyman, the fear of being lynched. Including "Avey, "Blood-Burning Moon," "Karintha," and "Kabnis," this book was by far the most important contribution that the author of Balo and "The Flavor of Man" made to the Harlem Renaissance. For 10 points, name this collection of stories, drama, and poems by a grandson of Pinckney Pinchback, Jean Toomer. 
Cane 
8

108000-)
In Jerzy Kosinski's Steps, one of these completely consumes itself.  Radclyffe Hall's The Unlit Lamp was originally titled after one of these.  In "The Man Who Loved Islands," D.H. Lawrence compares the story's setting to one, and in a story by Italo Calvino one captured by Zefferino tries to kill Signorina de Magistris.  A political tract by Norman Mailer is named for "The Idol" and one, while a trained one is attacking Katje Borgesius when Tyrone Slothrop first encounters her in Gravity's Rainbow.  One is described as being characterized by "relentless accuracy" and has its "claw cut by the avalanche/'with a sound like the crack of a rifle" in a poem which compares it to Mount Rainier by Marianne Moore.  The proprietor of Los Muertos Ranch, Magnus Derrick, is strangled by the railroad represented by, for 10 points, what title creature of a novel by Frank Norris? 
Octopus or Octopi 
8

108007-)
In one work in this collection the author claims that "I am the living mind you fail to describe" and that "the letters of my mind are written under the lids of the newborn child."  The final poem contains prose passages from Jean-Marc Itard's account of the Wild Boy of Aveyron, while section two is composed entirely of the ten-part "The Phenomenology of Anger."  She describes "a blue energy piercing/the massed atoms of a bedrock disbelief" in "When We Dead Awaken," and the companion poems "Burning Oneself In" and "Burning Oneself Out" precede a poem addressed to women incarcerated as political prisoners in the Soviet Union, "For a Sister."  In the title poem, the speaker has read the book of myths and prepares by donning a "grave and awkward mask" and "body-armor of black rubber."  For 10 points name this feminist poetry collection by Adrienne Rich. 
Diving into the Wreck 
8

108020-)
Critics have debated whether the use of the word "posture" in this poem is a metaphor for the insincere beliefs about the immortality of the soul that the author felt Christians held, or is a literal reference to the custom of placing the dead in a sitting position. Asking whether "Pale Marian" played in  the shade of an elm at the title location, it ends by proclaiming that the "shadows and delusions" of the title place will cause "reason's self" to "bend the knee." Its theme is that the "fancy" of a certain group of people is more pure than European logic. For 10 points, name this poem about "the fancies of a ruder race" which was written around the same time as "Port Royal" and "The Wild Honey Suckle," after a 1787 visit to a certain kind of cemetery by Philip Freneau.
"The Indian Burying Ground" or "Lines Occasioned by a Visit to an Old Indian Burying Ground"
8

108057-)
In this author's first novel, Stonecipheco baby food fortune heiress Lenore Beadsman has an affair with Rick Vigorous while searching for her missing great-grandmother. He wrote about a lesbian whose amazing win streak on Jeopardy is broken by her insane brother in his short story "Little Expressionless Animals." That story appears in a collection named for his short story about the sociopathic lawyer Sick Puppy, Girl With Curious Hair. This author collaborated with Mark Costello on Signifying Rappers, and collected his nonfiction in A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again. His most recent novel focuses on a film created by James Incandenza so addictively entertaining that it causes people who watch it to stop functioning. FTP, name this contemporary American author of Infinite Jest. 
David Foster Wallace 
8

108074-)
The title character of this work claims that the origin of all wisdom is the statement "two plus two equals four" and later pontificates on the etymology of the word "pronoun."  A character in this work named Benjamin Franklin hears an explanation of why there are at least six personalities taking part in a dialogue between John and Thomas, while other characters include a "Young Fellow called John," the Schoolmistress, and the Divinity-Student. A part of this collection dubs the Boston state-house the "hub of the Solar System," and section 11 contains a poem by its author about a conveyance "built in such a logical way," the "Wonderful One-Hoss Shay." Spawning later works about the "poet" and "professor" at the titular locale, this is, for 10 points, what essay collection featuring dialogue between some boarders and a Beacon Hill landlord by Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. 
The Autocrat of the Breakfast-Table 
8

108091-)
One character in this work marries a woman described as "reliable as roast mutton." Minor characters include Jack and Grace Stepney, who judge the protagonist unfavorably, and the snobbish Mr. and Mrs. Wetherall.   The protagonist of this novel is forced to secure a job under Mme. Regina with the help of Carrie Fisher after her check from Mrs. Peniston is delayed.  As a result, a social-climbing Jewish banker rescinds his offer to marry the protagonist, who had earlier toyed with the affections of Percy Gryce.  The protagonist unwisely trusts her bridge winnings to the manipulative Gus Trenor, but her real troubles stem from the jealous Bertha Dorset, who is responsible for her social demise.  The protagonist eventually commits suicide much to the dismay of Lawrence Selden in, for 10 points, what novel about Lily Bart by Edith Wharton? 
The House of Mirth 
8

108123-)
The protagonist of this novel is injured after the passing of a noisy gasoline truck, which leads to him being cut by a wire.  Another character, Mahailey, helps raise the protagonist until he matriculates at Temple College, where he is disillusioned by the attitudes of reverend Arthur Weldon.  The protagonist's brother Bayliss unsuccessfully endeavors to marry his friend Gladys Farmer, who disapproves of the protagonist's marriage to the tee-totalling vegetarian Enid Royce.  After Enid leaves for China to care for her sister the protagonist joins the army, in which he befriends the erstwhile violinist David Gerhardt, but under the command of Colonel Maxey he is killed on the front lines.  Claude Wheeler fights in World War I in, for 10 points, what Pulitzer Prize-winning novel by Willa Cather? 
One of Ours 
8

108137-)
One of this man's title characters learns that Shakespeare is forced to walk behind a "common tailor from Tennessee" named Billings, while in a novel of his, a man invents the Cursing Phonograph and another character pretends to be the outlaw One-Armed Pete. That novel was intended as a sequel, but the protagonist's name had to be changed to "Mulberry" after a lawsuit from a man who shared a name with the original character. That character first appeared in a novel where the fall of Senator Dilworthy and the murder trial of Laura dash Washington Hawkins's scheme to profit from establishing a black college. This author of  "Captain Stormfield's Visit To Heaven" and "The Private History of a Campaign that Failed" wrote the quite-posthumouly published play "Is He Dead?" as well as a satire on the Congo called "King Leopold's Soliloquy," though he may be better known for such novels as one subtitled "A Tale of Today" and co-written with Charles Dudley Warner, "The Gilded Age." For 10 points, name this creator of Injun Joe, Hank "The Boss" Morgan, an amphibian from Calaveras County, and Tom Sawyer. 
Mark Twain [or Samuel Clemens] 
8

108141-)
One of this man's poems compares his heart to the "blue kingfisher" that "dives on you in fire," while another speaks of our fathers who "fenced their gardens with the Redmen's bones."  Both of those works appeared in a collection that featured ten revised poems from an earlier volume along with a poem revisited later in "Memories of West Street and Lepke."  "Falling Asleep Over the Aeneid" was among the poems in this author's third volume, The Mills of the Kavanaughs.  He wrote a trilogy of plays called The Old Glory followed by a collection that includes "Water," which concerns his earlier relationship with Elizabeth Bishop.  He laments "I myself am hell" in his "Skunk Hour," while nautical imagery pervades the earlier poem "The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket." The author of Lord Weary's Castle, this is, for 10 points, what confessional poet best-known for the elegy "For the Union Dead." 
Robert Lowell (prompt on Lowell)
8

108151-)
One character in this work rides the rails to Knoxville with Gus Moody and is responsible along with Tom Flack for regularly retrieving another character from the Eagle Crescent brothel.  As a young child the protagonist is trodden upon by a horse driving a wagon laden with the Hilliards' groceries, and later in life he is heartbroken when his girlfriend leaves him to marry Richard.  The protagonist of this novel gets his first job delivering papers with Luke after the death of his brother Gordon during the St. Louis World's Fair, and later he is sent to the university at Pulpit Hill after the completion of his schoolwork under Margaret Leonard.  Much of his life is spent in Dixieland, the boardinghouse run by his mother Eliza in Altamont.  Ending with a vision of Ben just before the protagonist heads to Harvard, this is, for 10 points, what novel about Eugene Gant by Thomas Wolfe? 
Look Homeward, Angel 
8

108189-)
One work in this collection features a decrepit Sir Walter Scott dictating tales to an imaginary amanuensis and an 87 year old Robert Burns who cannot understand Tam O'Shanter.  Another concerns the machinations of the witch Mother Rigby to send her titular pipe-smoking creation to woo Polly Gookin, while, in another part of this collection, George Herkimer visits a man who allegedly has a snake residing in his bosom in a story that was originally meant for a collection called Allegories of the Heart, "Egotism."  Reuben Bourne shoots his son Cyrus on the very spot he left the dying title character of "Roger Malvin's Burial," while characters in this collections other stories include Aminadab, lab assistant to Aylmer, and Giovanni Guasconti, who falls in love with Beatrice Rappacini.  Also Including "Young Goodman Brown," this is, For 10 points, what collection of short stories by Nathaniel Hawthorne? 
Mosses from an Old Manse 
8

108202-)
Characters in this man's stories include a poet based on Robert Frost, Asa Bascomb, and a businessman who has an affair with Mrs. Flannagan, Charlie Pastern.  Crazy people in this man's works include Paul Hammer, whose attempt to immolate Tony on a church altar is thwarted by the chainsaw-wielding Elliot Nailles, and Miss Dent, who attacks Blake on the five-forty-eight train. Johnny Hake is the titular "Housebreaker" of a neighborhood in which several stories like "The Country Husband" are set, and he wrote a novel in which the drug-abusing college professor Ezequiel Farragut is being incarcerated in the titular prison.  Another novel focuses on Moses, Coverly, and their father Leander, members of the namesake family, and he wrote a story in which Neddy Merrill decides to go home through a series of pools. For 10 points, name this author of The Wapshot Chronicle and "The Swimmer." 
John Cheever 
8

108203-)
One of this man's poems is addressed to an "Ox that I saw in my childhood," while in another the speaker exclaims "The clock has rung threeÂ—If only it were She!" and describes himself as the "auto-Hamlet."  One of his works quotes Poe's "Ulalume" by declaring "with Psychis, my soul," and in a book of criticism he notably placed Poe among the titular "Rare Flowers."  Early in his career this man published a novel in which the villainous gambler Ernesto pursues the titular English girl, Emelina, but it was praise from critic Juan Valera that helped launch this author's best-known work. "Symphony in Gray Major" stands out among his Prosas Profanas, and he calls the title figure an "Alexander-Nebuchadnezzer" and scolds him for his imperialism in his To Roosevelt.  For 10 points name this author of Azul, known as the father of Modernismo in his native Nicaragua. 
Ruben Dario
8

108229-)
It opens with the speaker acknowledging that although some say the tale he has come to tell is false, some hold that it is true. The story is set in motion when the aristocratic Lord Thomas professes his love for the title figure, though he really desires another woman and is only after her riches. Its author's first critical success, it would later serve as the title of his third book of poetry, a 1928 collection that followed such volumes as Color and Copper Sun.  For ten points, identify this poem that revolves around a black woman who is betrayed and killed by her white husband, a work by Countee Cullen. 
The Ballad of the Brown Girl 
8

108234-)
His "Nevada Gas" opens with George Dial and Hugo Candless playing squash, while "The King in Yellow" ends with Steve Grayce eating breakfast at Rim-of-the-World Inn.  Misplaced pearls are a major plot point in his stories "Red Wind" and "Goldfish."  This author's last completed novel focuses on a search for Betty Mayfield in the town of Esmeralda and ends with the protagonist getting back in touch with Linda Loring. That work, Playback, was to be followed by Poodle Springs, which was left unfinished at his death. His first work, "Blackmailers Don't Shoot," was published in Black Mask Magazine in 1933, but his most famous creation, a hard boiled crime solver, was introduced in the story "Killer in the Rain." For ten points, identify this author who chronicled Philip Marlowe's adventures in Farewell, My Lovely and The Big Sleep. 
Raymond Chandler 
8

108256-)
In this novel, a young boy is nearly killed crossing an unstable bridge to fetch a bottle of whiskey for the housekeeper Mrs.Briscoe. This novel's narrator hires the liberal college dropout Shelley Rasmussen to be his scribe after he moves to his familyhome Zodiac Cottage in Grass Valley, and argues about the value of history with his sociologist son, Rodman. A femalecharacter is jealous when her best friend Augusta Drake marries Thomas Hudson, the editor of Scribner's, while she leads anitinerant life in places such as New Almaden and Leadville, where her husband Oliver works on various fruitless engineeringprojects. This novel's author controversially quoted the letters of Mary Hallock Foote for the letters of Susan Burling Ward,whose life is chronicled by the wheelchair-bound historian Lyman Ward. For 10 points, name this Pulitzer-winning 1971 novelby Wallace Stegner.
Angle of Repose
8

108267-)
One anecdote from this work concerns negotiating with a famous author, who agrees to write a piece in exchange for a boxof.45-caliber Gold Saber bullets and a two-hour session painting watercolors on two naked women. This work begins with asection outlining the "rules and suggestions for enjoyment of this book." A lengthy episode in this book concerns a hoax articleclaiming that former child star Adam Rich was murdered. The cartoonist Judd Winick is cast instead of the protagonist on atelevision show in this book, which structures the second half of one chapter as an audition interview for The Real World. Thenarrator of this work miraculously discovers a cardboard box containing the lost "cremains" of his cremated mother. Shaliniand Moodie help its narrator publish Might magazine. This book's narrator is forced to become the guardian of his teenagebrother Toph in his early twenties after their mother and father both die of cancer within a three-month span. For 10 points,name this immodestly titled memoir published in 2000 by Dave Eggers.
A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius
8

108274-)
One of this author's poems ends with the couplet "Only sound needs echo and dreads its lack / A glance is accustomed to no glance back." The speaker of one poem by this author sees "wild mares carousing in tall sedge," "steam dreadnoughts or cruisers," and the "expanse grow[ing] blue like lace underwear" as he travels eastward on a globe. This poet parodied the opening of Auden's "In Memory of W.B. Yeats" by starting an elegy with the line "He died in January, the beginning of the year." This poet asked "what is space anyway if not the body's absence at every given point?" in a poem explaining that the title woman is older than her sister Clio. This poet wrote "Verses on the Death of T.S. Eliot" and the collection To Urania. Sartre, Yevtushenko, and his mentor Anna Akhmatova succeeded in forcing the commutation of this poet's imprisonment in Siberia for "social parasitism." For 10 points, name this author of "Elegy for John Donne," who served as the U.S. Poet Laureate after emigrating from Russia.
Joseph Brodsky
8

108281-)
In the first act of one of this author's plays, Alex MacColgie Gibbs's anecdote about the Maharaja climbing up a tree is comically misunderstood. This author wrote about Sir Claude Mulhammer sneaking his illegitimate son Colby into his house as a servant in The Confidential Clerk. The protagonist of another play by this author believes he is being chased by invisible Furies who appear as "bright angels"; that play begins with Lord Harry Monchensey returning to his family home of Wishwood. This author wrote a play in which the psychiatrist Henry Harcourt-Reilly brings Lavinia back to the title event after she had walked out on her husband Edward Chamberlayne minutes before they were about to host a soiree. Reginald FitzUrse, Richard Briton, William de Tracy, and Hugh de Morville argue that the title action of another play by this author should be viewed as a suicide. This author of The Family Reunion and The Cocktail Party wrote a play whose protagonist faces four tempters the night before his assassination in Canterbury Cathedral. For 10 points, name this author who depictedthe death of Thomas a Becket in his play Murder in the Cathedral.
Thomas Stearns Eliot
8

108349-)
In a novel by this author set in the 1920s, the mysterious Flower Phantom cuts off the hair offeminists and Treemonisha Smarts directs a play in which the lynching victim Ham is disinterredand put on trial for looking at Cora Mae. Another of his novels, also set in the 1920s, includes theMutafikah, a group that deems museums "Centers of Art Detention" and steals artifacts from them.In that novel by him, the (*) Wallflower Order opposes the growth of the Jes Grew religious movement.Arthur Swille spares no expense in tracking down Raven Quickskill, a slave who has undergone the titlejourney in another novel by him. For 10 points, name this author of Reckless Eyeballing, Mumbo Jumbo,and Flight to Canada.
Ishmael Reed
8

108434-)
Items in this novel include Seashell earbud radios and a "green bullet" that one character uses to communicate with the protagonist. The protagonist later floats down a river and encounters Granger after parting with Faber and escaping a Mechanical Hound. One character in this novel is hit by a speeding car, after the protagonist had earlier questioned his own happiness following a conversation by moonlight with his neighbor, Clarisse McClellan. In this novel Captain Beatty is incinerated by the ex-fireman and book-burner Guy Montag. For 10 points, name this novel by Ray Bradbury.
Fahrenheit 451 
4

108449-)
One chapter of this book discusses the necessity of hunting, with the author concluding that vegetarians are superior. The author of this work claims that the woodchopper Alec Therien is nearly perfect, and in this book, a town is likened to a gopher colony. Black and red ants battle in the chapter "Brute Neighbors," and the author's house is not in the woodlands, but on the outskirts of Concord, Massachusetts. For 10 points, name this work that begins with the section "Economy" and describes life in a cottage by the title pond, written by Henry David Thoreau.
Walden
4

108462-)
In one novel by this author, Letty Gerald draws Lester Kane's attention away from the title character, who bears a daughter Vesta after the Senator George Brander dies. This author created a character who moves in with her sister Minnie and her husband Sven Hanson in Chicago. This author of Jennie Gerhardt described Charles Drouet's relationship with Caroline Meeber in one work, while in another of his works, the protagonist allows Roberta Alden to drown in a lake. The creator of Clyde Griffiths, for 10 points, name this author of Sister Carrie and An American Tragedy. 
Theodore Dreiser 
4

108478-)
A half-Chinese character in this work convinces one character to feed a dog poisoned meat. Under the pretense of holding Bible study sessions, Henry Washington meets with several prostitutes in this novel. This novel, interspersed with Dick-and-Jane stories, also sees Junior throw Geraldine's beloved cat against the radiator and blame the protagonist for its death. A Shirley Temple mug with the title feature is adored by a character who is raped by her father Cholly. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Claudia Macteer about Pecola Breedlove's wish to be white, by Toni Morrison.
The Bluest Eye 
4

108499-)
In one of this author's short stories, a man sees a lynx, a savage with a torch, and finally his own grave, while in another, a chess-playing robot kills its creator. This author of "An Inhabitant of Carcosa" and "Moxon's Master" described a small boy who survives a Civil War battle in "Chickamauga." This author wrote a "Cynic's Word Book" and a short story in which Peyton Farquhar attempts to burn down the title structure. For 10 points, name this American writer of The Devil's Dictionary and "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge."
Ambrose Bierce 
4

108523-)
In this work, after sending a servant to the drugstore ostensibly for her arthritic hands, one character begins to discuss her dislike of fog and foghorns. In this play, the tenant farmer Shaughnessy gets into a disagreement with the oil magnate Harker, and one character becomes the lover of Fat Violet to save her job. The cheery Cathleen sneaks whiskey from the central family, which thinks lowly of Dr. Hardy, who diagnoses Edmund with tuberculosis in this play. Including the morphine addicted matron Mary, for 10 points, name this play about the Tyrone family by Eugene O'Neill.
Long Day's Journey into Night 
4

108556-)
This poet opens one poem with the lines "Overnight, very / Whitely, discreetly, / Very quietly" and ends with the declaration that the title entities will "by morning / Inherit the earth." This author of "Mushrooms" opens another poem with the line "Stasis in darkness," the title poem of her collection Ariel. She wrote about driving "a stake in your fat black heart" her poem "Daddy," while in one of her novels, Esther Greenwood feels as if she were trapped under the title scientific apparatus. For 10 points, name this author of The Bell Jar. 
Sylvia Plath 
4

108579-)
In this work, Victor annoys the protagonist by singing a song the protagonist had heard while crossing to the Cheniere, "Ah! Si tu savais." This work opens with a parrot speaking English and French over a mockingbird's incessant chattering. The Farival twins perform a piano duet on a night when the protagonist is moved to tears by Madamoiselle Reisz's piano playing. This novel's protagonist carries on affairs with Alcee Arobin and Robert Lebrun, before committing suicide by drowning in the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, name this novel about Edna Pontellier by Kate Chopin.
The Awakening 
4

108604-)
In a work by this author, the speaker wonders "Who shall say I am not / the happy genius of my household?" after dancing "naked, grotesquely / before my mirror / waving my shirt round my head." This author of "Danse Russe" describes the title flower as "like a buttercup / upon its branching stem" in "Asphodel, That Greeny Flower." His poems include one where the narrator has eaten plums that were "so sweet / and so cold" and another where the title object lies "glazed with rain water / beside the white / chickens." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Red Wheelbarrow."
William Carlos Williams 
4

108630-)
One of this author's works describes the title objects as "girls on hands and knees that throw their hair" and created a character who "has nothing to look backward to with pride" and "nothing to look forward to with hope." This author of "Birches" wrote a poem that claims "for destruction" the two title entities "would suffice" in "Fire and Ice," and wrote about Silas in "The Death of the Hired Man." The speaker of his most famous poem has "promises to keep / And miles to go before [he] sleep[s]." For 10 points, name this poet of "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."
Robert Lee Frost 
4

108643-)
The speaker in one of this author's works "shall not live in vain" if they can "ease one Life the Aching / Or cool one Pain". This poet claimed that "Success is counted sweetest / By those who ne'er succeed" and describes a narrator who is distracted by an "uncertain stumbling buzz" and who "could not see to see". She wrote about a carriage that "held but just Ourselves -- / And Immortality". For 10 points, name this "Belle of Amherst" who wrote "I heard a Fly buzz -- when I died --" and "Because I could not stop for Death --".
Emily Elizabeth Dickinson 
4

108672-)
This character erroneously claims that the first two disciples were David and Goliath. In one novel titled after this character, the irksome character Jubiter disappears while his twin Jake Dunlap steals some diamonds and blames this character's Uncle Silas. This character is lost at McDougal's cave with a love interest who had earlier been annoyed by his "engagement" to Amy Lawrence. Shunned by Becky Sharp, this character becomes a pirate with Joe Harper after witnessing a murder committed by Injun Joe. For 10 points, name this compatriot of Huckleberry Finn, created by Mark Twain.
Tom Sawyer [accept either name] 
4

108696-)
This author describes the title group's art form as angular, imitative and lacking privacy in one essay, while in a short story, a skinny woman is jealous of her husband's rotund mistress Bertha. She chronicles Sykes's attempt to poison Delia in her short story "Sweat," and this author of "The Characteristics of Negro Expression" created a protagonist who leaves Logan Killicks and marries the smooth-talking Jody Starks, moving to Eatonville with him. For 10 points, name this creator of Janie Crawford and author of Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Zora Neale Hurston 
4

108703-)
This author wrote a poem in which "they are all gone away" and "there is nothing more to say," while a play by this author describes Weldon Farnham's encounter with the title character, Van Zorn. This author of the villanelle "The House on the Hill" created a title character who "cursed the commonplace" and "loved the days of old" in "Miniver Cheevy," while his most famous poem features a "gentleman from sole to crown" who "put a bullet through his head." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Miniver Cheevy" and "Richard Cory."
Edwin Arlington Robinson 
4

108726-)
This poet bids "Fondle your shells and sticks, bleached / By time and the elements" in a poem cycle recounting a love affair; both "Voyages" and "Chaplinesque" are found in the collection White Buildings. One of his last poems describes a heterosexual relationship with Peggy Baird, while the title has phallic significance in his "The Broken Tower." His most well known work contains the sections "Cutty Sark" and "Powhatan's Daughter," and was inspired by the title New York City landmark. For 10 points, name this American modernist poet of The Bridge.
Hart Crane 
4

108750-)
This character sees her distorted reflection in a suit of armor at Bellingham's house, and reluctantly accepted sedatives earlier for fear of poison. She is repeatedly accosted by a follower of the Black Man, Mistress Hibbins. Sunlight seems to disappear before her in one scene, and she ultimately lives alone in a hut. At the opening of the novel in which she appears, this character emerges from a prison door with her daughter and stands on a scaffold, where she is spotted by her long-gone husband, Roger Chillingworth. For 10 points, name this woman who conceived Pearl with Arthur Dimmesdale and is forced to wear a scarlet A in a novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
Hester Prynne 
4

108767-)
In a poem by this writer, the title character has abided "bitter breast-cares". Lady Valentine meets another of his characters, whose "true Penelope was Flaubert" and seeks to "resuscitate the dead art / Of poetry". Along with translating "The Seafarer", this poet of Hugh Selwyn Mauberley described "the apparition of these faces" as "petals on a wet, black bough" in "In a Station of the Metro". He drew from his translations of Chinese poetry in a "cryselephantine poem of immeasurable length" that includes "Rock Drill" and a section written during his imprisonment in Pisa. For 10 points, name this Imagist poet of The Cantos.
Ezra Pound 
4

108798-)
In this work, the population of the central town is described as "likely to keep on growing". "Don't you have a grown boy to do it for you?" is a question asked to Mrs. Dunbar, although all the characters already know the answer. "Corn be heavy soon" after the events of this story, for which Mr. Summers brings out a three-legged stool. In this story, Old Man Warner laments, "People ain't the way they used to be". Chips of wood were once used, but have been replaced by pieces of paper in the black box. "It isn't fair. It isn't right" are the final words of Tessie Hutchinson as she is stoned to death in, for 10 points, what short story by Shirley Jackson?
"The Lottery" 
4

108824-)
In one of this writer's short stories, Peter and Wendy sacrifice their parents to some simulated lions in the Nursery, and in another, two men construct a haunted house and kill book-burners in homage to various works of fiction. This author of "The Veldt" included "Usher II" in a collection about the colonization of the Red Planet, The Martian Chronicles. He created a character who is compared to an English professor and is hit by a speeding car. In that novel, Mildred refuses to call in sick after the protagonist vomits from the smell of kerosene, and Captain Beatty orders Guy Montag to burn his house down. For 10 points, name this science fiction author of Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Bradbury 
4

108835-)
In a work from this movement, Sam and Steve compete against Harry Walton in a mayoral race. "Kabnis" is a short story in Cane, a collection from this movement, which also produced the musical Shuffle Along and the publication FIRE!!. Alain Locke compiled an anthology of its seminal works that includes poems by Countee Cullen and Claude McKay. A blossoming pear tree symbolizes Janie's view of marriage in a novel associated with this movement. A poet of this movement declared "my soul has grown deep like the rivers" and asked "What happens to a dream deferred?". For 10 points, name this movement of Zora Neale Hurston, Langston Hughes, and other African-American writers.
Harlem Renaissance 
4

108865-)
This poet promised not to forget the "friends who in darker fortunes tried", a thought sparked by a "modest bell" and "humble stalk" in "The Yellow Violet". In "The Battle-field", he commented that "Truth crushed to earth will rise again". He observed the title creature of one poem pursue "thy solitary way" before concluding, "He who... guides through the boundless sky thy certain flight" will "lead my steps aright". This poet of "To a Waterfowl" opened a poem with "To him who in the love of Nature holds / Communion with her visible forms". For 10 points, name this poet who urged the reader to "approach thy grave, / like one who... lies down to pleasant dreams" in "Thanatopsis".
William Cullen Bryant 
4

108881-)
The set directions of this play specify that characters may phase through the walls of its setting, which are only solid in the present. The protagonist, whose entrance is accompanied by flute music, ignores a character who constantly repeats that he is losing weight. Recurring characters in this play include one associated with stockings, the Woman, and one who comes out of the jungle rich, Ben. The protagonist points to Bernard as an example of someone who is "liked", but not "well-liked". In this play, Linda reveals a disturbing string of car accidents to Biff and Happy. For 10 points, name this play ending with the suicide and funeral of Willy Loman, a play by Arthur Miller.
Death of a Salesman 
4

108895-)
One character in this novel is often described as delicately balancing something on her chin. Described as careless drivers, that character and her friend are first encountered lying "p-paralyzed" on a divan and wearing fluttering white dresses. The narrator of this novel is accidentally offered a "gonnegtion" by Meyer Wolfsheim. The eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckleburg loom over the Valley of Ashes, near a car repair shop opened by George Wilson. In this novel, ashes and blood mix when George's wife Myrtle is run over by a yellow car driven by Daisy. For 10 points, name this novel set in West Egg and narrated by Nick Carraway, a work by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Great Gatsby 
4

108916-)
One member of this family is told that he doesn't understand children after spanking his niece for punching Francis. This family includes Jack, Alexandra, and a boy who destroys a row of camellias and is forced to read to the morphine-addicted Mrs. Dubose as punishment. Another member of this family lives up to his old nickname "One-Shot" by shooting a rabid dog. That character's children are attacked by Bob Ewell and rescued by Boo Radley after his controversial defense of Tom Robinson. For 10 points, name this family that includes Jem, Scout, and Atticus, the central family of Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird.
Finch family 
4

108944-)
The speaker of this poem describes his love for breathing the unperfumed and undistilled atmosphere. In this poem, which ends "I stop somewhere, waiting for you", the speaker listens in awe to the sound of his own "belch'd words" and asks the reader to "loose the stop from your throat". Its sixth canto describes "the beautiful uncut hair of graves" in response to a child who asks "What is the grass?". Its speaker asks the reader to "loafe with me on the grass" and declares "What I assume you shall assume" and "I am large, I contain multitudes". For 10 points, name this epic poem from Leaves of Grass that opens "I celebrate myself", written by Walt Whitman.
"Song of Myself" 
4

108952-)
This writer created a character who visits a burned out town where he catches a jar of grasshoppers and fishes for trout. That character assists his father in delivering a baby in "Indian Camp". An attack on a passing train is a point of pride in one of this writer's novels, which ends with the protagonist lying in ambush. In that novel by this writer, the central plot is foiled by the crossing of a tank, and Pablo betrays the protagonist. This writer created a character who runs away from the Italian Army called Frederic Henry in A Farewell to Arms. For 10 points, name this author of The Sun Also Rises, For Whom the Bell Tolls, and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest Hemingway 
4

108966-)
In this book, one character commits suicide by castrating himself on a toilet. That event occurs simultaneously with the narrator's dream about rust pouring out of Old Blastic's body. One character, who is ashamed of his beautiful hands, saves Sefelt when he has a seizure during sex with Candy. The antagonist's "fog" fails to prevent the narrator's vote for watching the World Series or going on a fishing trip. The antagonist of this novel is attacked and rendered mute in the aftermath of Billy's suicide, leading to McMurphy's lobotomy. For 10 points, name this novel that ends with Chief Bromden's escape from a psychiatric hospital run by Nurse Ratched, written by Ken Kesey.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest 
4

108970-)
A scene in this work discusses a unicorn that turns into a horse with an arrow in its head if seen by lots of people. One character in this play claims that "there's a design at work in all art" and later "dies" by a retractable dagger. This play opens with a coin landing on heads ninety-two times in a row, leading a character to conclude that they are "within un-, sub- or supernatural forces". The Tragedians, including the Player, are impossibly hidden in barrels in Act Three, which takes place on a ship. This play ends with the title news delivered to Horatio. For 10 points, name this tragicomedy featuring two characters originally from Hamlet, written by Tom Stoppard.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
4

108976-)
In a novel set in this location, Madame Haupt Hebamme is reluctant to see a teenage girl who is dying in childbirth. Catherine Banahan meets Studs Lonigan in a novel set here. Another work describes this place as "a tall bold slugger" and "a dog with tongue lapping for action" before repeating that it is a "Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat". This "somber city" is the birthplace of a Saul Bellow protagonist in The Adventures of Augie March. The meatpacking industry of this "Hog Butcher for the World" was exposed by Upton Sinclair. For 10 points, name this city, the setting of The Jungle and the subject of a Carl Sandburg poem.
Chicago
4

108999-)
In a novel by this author, blue paint that peels off the canvas is used in a painting by Rabo Karabekian. In another of his novels, most people are either part of the army or the Reconstruction and Reclamation corps, both of which do absolutely nothing. Bluebeard and Player Piano are by this author, who also wrote about false karasses like Hoosiers, and the manufactured religion Bokononism. In his Breakfast of Champions, Kilgore Trout is set free. This author created ice-9 in Cat's Cradle, and wrote about a character who becomes "unstuck in time", Billy Pilgrim. For 10 points, name this science fiction writer of Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. 
4

109023-)
One character in this novel finds two white pearls behind a loose brick; those pearls are later taken away and given to the servant Lotus Blossom. The protagonist of this novel only names two of his three sons. The protagonist's wife was mistreated by Cuckoo and sustains herself and the poor fool during a famine on a handful of beans given back to them by Ching. The protagonist takes Lotus as his concubine once he becomes rich. This novel opens with the protagonist's marriage to O-lan, a servant of the wealthy and seemingly great House of Hwang. For 10 points, name this novel that follows Wang Lung's ambitious acquisition of land, written by Pearl S. Buck.
The Good Earth 
4

109032-)
One character in this poem fearfully mistakes the shadow of his "glass coach" for this poem's central subject, who "walks around the feet / of women around you". The speaker is caught between "the beauty of inflections", "the beauty of innuendoes", the central subject's whistle, and "just after". This poem asserts that "a man and a woman and [the title creature] are one" and opens with the observation that "among twenty snowy mountains, / the only moving thing / was the eye of" the title animal. For 10 points, name this Cubist poem written by Wallace Stevens whose haiku-like sections give different perspectives of the title bird.
"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird" 
4

109047-)
Characters created by this writer include one sent to a work camp for having sex with a farmer's watermelons and another who discovers a couple in a car frozen mid-copulation, killed by carbon monoxide poisoning. This writer created Gene Harrogate and Lester Ballard in Suttree and Child of God. One of his characters falls in love with Magdalena and Alejandra. This creator of John Grady Cole wrote about the kid's murder by a huge hairless albino, Judge Holden, and Sheriff Bell's attempts to save Llewelyn Moss from the coin-flipping hitman Anton Chigurh. For 10 points, name this author of the Border Trilogy, Blood Meridian and No Country for Old Men.
Cormac McCarthy 
4

109072-)
One character in this novel sells two pieces of nickel candy to a father and his sons for a penny. Another character wants to take a correspondence class to fix radios, but is intrigued by high wages as a tractor driver. In this novel, a starving man is breastfed by a woman who earlier gave birth to a stillborn child, Rose of Sharon. This novel sees the preacher Jim Casy killed in a strike for higher wages, as Tom is forced to escape the plantation. This novel follows one family's migration from Oklahoma to California. For 10 points, name this novel about the Joad family during the Dust Bowl, written by John Steinbeck.
The Grapes of Wrath 
4

109075-)
Paul Douglas defended this man's slum clearance program and he fired J. Howard McGrath, his Attorney General, following an IRS corruption scandal. He decried the "Do Nothing Congress," which passed a bill he called a "slave labor bill": the Taft-Hartley Act. His attempt to circumvent that law by seizing some factories after a steelworkers' strike was ruled unconstitutional in Youngstown v. Sawyer, and the Housing Act was the only part of his "Fair Deal" that passed. For 10 points, name this Missouri President with a namesake doctrine to contain Communism who succeeded Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Harry S Truman 
4

109078-)
The narrator of this novel recalls his mother giving a piece of pie to a hobo by choice, Big Slim Hazard, and constantly eats apple pie, ice cream, and cough drops. The meaning of tomorrow is told to this novel's narrator by Ricky. In this novel, the "Holy Goof" is abandoned on the way to a Duke Ellington concert by Remi Boncoeur and the narrator, who becomes infatuated with Terry. The main characters of this novel meet Carlo Marx in Denver, and Old Bull Lee in New Orleans. The narrator, delirious from dysentery, is abandoned in Mexico City by Dean Moriarty. For 10 points, name this Beat novel narrated by Sal Paradise, a work by Jack Kerouac.
On The Road 
4

109088-)
A member of this profession advises stuffing people full of "facts" to give them a sense of motion without moving. Transported by Salamanders, they program an eight-legged morphine-injecting machine, the Mechanical Hound. A dandelion fails to rub off on the chin of one of these people, who meets Clarisse McClellan. A ventilation grill hides one member's contraband, which must be destroyed within 24 hours. Phoenix helmets with the numbers 451, and kerosene hoses are used by this profession, whose members include Captain Beatty and Guy Montag. For 10 points, name this profession that specializes in burning books, featured in Fahrenheit 451. 
firemen [prompt on book-burners] 
4

109096-)
This poet wrote, "All the clocks in the city / began to whirr and chime" in "As I Walked Out One Evening". In a free verse poem by this poet, "everything turns away / quite leisurely" from "something amazing", Brueghel's fall of Icarus. "About suffering they were never wrong, the old Masters" opens that poem, "MusÃ©e des Beaux Arts". This poet described "clever hopes" of "a dishonest decade" expiring and wrote "all I have is a voice" in a poem set in "one of the dives on Fifty-second street". That poem declares, "we must love one another or die". For 10 points, name this British poet of "September 1, 1939" and "Funeral Blues", which opens, "stop all the clocks". 
Wystan Hugh Auden 
4

109109-)
In a novel set in this city, Zachary Busner finds Audrey Death in an asylum, paralyzed by encephalitis lethargica. FutureMouse escapes into this city, the setting of Umbrella and White Teeth. The speaker of a poem hears "mind-forged manacles" among its "charter'd streets". A body assumed to be John Harmon's is found in its central river, where a locket and a ring are disposed of by Monks. Bill Sikes works with a gang operating in this city whose members include the Artful Dodger, Fagin, and for a time, Oliver Twist. For 10 points, name this city, a frequent setting of the works of Charles Dickens.
London 
4

109112-)
One character in this novel seeks to make another "come apart at those neat little seams" and introduces himself as a "gambling fool". The antagonist of this novel can control "fog", and is suspected as part of "The Combine". Characters in this novel vote to go on a fishing trip and to watch the World Series. At the conclusion of this novel, Billy's suicide sparks an attack on Nurse Ratched, who then orders the lobotomy of a character ultimately smothered by Chief Bromden. For 10 points, name this novel about Randall McMurphy's rebellion in a mental hospital in Oregon, by Ken Kesey.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest
4

109122-)
In this novel, an artist feels the protagonist's shoulder blades to see if wings are growing out. This novel opens with the image of a caged parrot squawking "Get away!", which is echoed when the protagonist buys a "pigeon house" to establish her independence. Its protagonist experiences sexual tension with both the alienated pianist Mademoiselle Reisz and the family-devoted mother Madame Ratignolle. In this novel, Alcee Arobin and Robert Lebrun pursue relationships with the protagonist, who ultimately drowns herself in the sea. For 10 points each, name this 1899 novel focusing on Edna Pontellier's exploration of femininity, written by Kate Chopin. 
The Awakening 
4

109142-)
This novel's yam-eating narrator descends into an altered sense of time when listening to Louis Armstrong. Repeatedly alluding to "Yes 'em to death", its narrator is told he is Mr. Norton's fate and dreams he is castrated by the one-eyed Jack. A mock rebirth scene occurs after Brockway triggers an explosion at Liberty Paints. In this novel, Sambo dolls are sold by a character who "plunges outside history", Tod Clifton. Its narrator mingles at the Chthonian with the Brotherhood, and stabs Ras the Exhorter during an apocalyptic race riot before descending underground to leech off of Monopolated Light and Power. For 10 points, name this novel by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [do not accept "The Invisible Man"] 
4

109159-)
This poem's author describes setting up this poem's "circumscription of space" in his essay "The Philosophy of Composition". Its narrator "wheeled a cushioned seat" and sat with his "head at ease reclining" until "the air grew denser, perfumed by an unseen censer". Asking if there is "balm in Gilead", this poem takes place in "bleak December" and opens "once upon a midnight dreary" as the narrator ponders "weak and weary". Its narrator commands the title figure to return to "Night's Plutonian shore", calling it a "prophet" and "thing of evil" that evokes memories of Lenore. For 10 points, name this poem about an "ebony bird" who repeats "Nevermore", written by Edgar Allen Poe.
"The Raven" 
4

109201-)
This work relates the story of a magazine editor mailing a letter entirely reading, "I don't agree with you" to Matthew Arnold and describes a plaque which erroneously claims that Benjamin Franklin was eaten by savages in the Sandwich Islands. It quotes from such poets as Jamrach Holobom and Father Gassalasca Jape and was begun in a series of "Prattler" columns in the (*) San Francisco Wasp. Its introduction states that imitations were published under the names "The Cynic's This, The Cynic's That, and The Cynic's t'Other." This book distinguishes between "academe" and "academy" and claims that a lawyer is "one skilled in circumventing the law". For 10 points, name this collection of satirical definitions written by Ambrose Bierce.
The Devil's Dictionary [accept The Cynic's Word Book or The Cynic's Dictionary before "Cynic" is read]
5

109216-)
A character created by this author socializes with Billy through sex with Billy's sister Trudy. In a story by this author, one character achieves masculinity by shooting a lion right before he is shot by his wife; that story features a triangle between Margot, Wilson, and Francis Macomber. His works often feature the theme of "nada" and follow the iceberg theory in omitting detail. He created a character who escapes the battle police and falls in love with Catherine Barkley, and he quoted Gertrude Stein on the Lost Generation for one novel's epitaph. For 10 points, name this writer who created Frederic Henry and Jake Barnes in A Farewell to Arms and The Sun Also Rises.
Ernest Hemingway 
4

109247-)
This author's long-lost early novel The Sea is My Brother was inspired by his short stint in the Merchant Marines. The title alchemist attempts to defeat the Great World Snake in his novel Doctor Sax. His time as a fire lookout in the Cascades inspired two of his novels, a part of his "Duluoz Legend" called Desolation Angels and a book in which Japhy Rider introduces Ray Smith to (*) Buddhism. Three trips to Raton Canyon are chronicled in his novel Big Sur, which was published five years after a novel in which Carlo Marx and Old Bull Lee are among the friends of the wandering protagonists, Dean Moriarty and Sal Paradise. For 10 points, name this Beat writer who penned The Dharma Bums and On the Road.
Jack Kerouac [or Jean-Louis Kerouac]
5

109251-)
One of this man's protagonists appears in a short story in which his rivalry with Ryer is transferred to the two men's wives, who argue about the severity of their husbands' beatings. This author of "Fantaisie Printaniere" introduced a poet named Presley who attempts to write a "Song of the West" in a novel based on the Mussel Slough Tragedy. In that novel, the villainous S. Behrman is opposed by the (*) anti-railroad ranchers' league, led by Lyman and Magnus Derrick. One of his protagonists marries the gold-obsessed Trina and ends the novel in which he appears in Death Valley, handcuffed to the body of his friend Marcus. For 10 points, name this naturalist author of The Octopus who wrote about a former San Francisco dentist in McTeague.
Frank Norris [or Benjamin Franklin Norris, Jr.]
5

109259-)
The protagonist of this novel dreams of giraffes after seeing a makeshift production of Cinderella performed by British soldiers. A recurring motif in this novel is a bird chirping "Poo-tee-weet?". This novel includes Eliot Rosewater, who discusses a book about a money tree written by Kilgore Trout. Its protagonist is forced to mate with Montana Wildhack in a public zoo for aliens shaped like toilet plungers. Repeating "So it goes" after each death, this novel swings between the fire-bombed Dresden and the planet Tralfamadore. For 10 points, identify this novel about Billy Pilgrim, who becomes "unstuck in time", written by Kurt Vonnegut. 
Slaughterhouse-Five 
4

109280-)
Note to players: time period and place required. "A poetical description of the great and last judgment" subtitles a poem from this place, The Day of Doom by Michael Wigglesworth. A poet from here wrote "Celestial choir! enthron'd in realms of light" in Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral. Another poet from this place noted "my hope and treasure lie above" after the burning of her house, and wrote the line "if ever two were one, then surely we". The Tenth Muse is a collection by a poet from this place that includes "To My Dear and Loving Husband". For 10 points, name this place home to Anne Bradstreet and Phillis Wheatley, who praised George Whitfield, George III, and General Washington. 
colonial America [or Thirteen Colonies; or colonial New England; accept Massachusetts Bay Colony before "Celestial choir!"; prompt on America; prompt on the Colonies] 
4

109300-)
In a story by Jhumpa Lahiri, two characters undertake this action in search of "unaccustomed earth". After marrying her second husband, Suyuan engages in this action, which is retraced when her daughter Jing-Mei finds her half-sisters in The Joy Luck Club. A sonnet dedicated to people undertaking this action describes "sea-washed, sunset gates" where the "Mother of Exiles" cries, "Give me your tired, your poor, / your huddled masses yearning to be free". For 10 points, name this journey in which newcomers encounter Emma Lazarus's "The New Colossus", a poem engraved on the base of the Statue of Liberty.
immigrating to America [or immigrating to the United States; prompt on immigrating] 
4

109327-)
A dying character in this novel is covered with a parachute and comforted with the words "there, there". This novel's protagonist arbitrarily declares "death to all modifiers" and "a war on articles" while censoring letters, and is stabbed by Nately's whore. Near the end of the novel, it is revealed Orr had escaped to Sweden. An IBM machine with a sense of humor is responsible for one character's rank, Major Major Major Major. This novel presents a situation where an insane man can get out of flying missions, but only a sane man would ask to get out at all. For 10 points, name this satirical novel featuring the bombardier Yossarian, written by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22 
4

109338-)
This novel opens by asserting that dream-bearing ships sail forever on the horizon for men. This novel's protagonist decides to find a "bee for her bloom" after experiencing a moment of ecstasy under a pear tree. In this novel framed as a story told to Pheoby, Nanny urges marriage to a man with sixty acres of land before passing away. While seeking shelter during a hurricane, one character in this novel is bitten by a rabid dog and attacks his wife, who shoots him in self-defense. The protagonist of this novel marries Logan Killicks and Jody Starks but finds love with Tea Cake. For 10 points, name this novel about Janie Crawford, written by Zora Neale Hurston. 
Their Eyes Were Watching God 
4

109363-)
This author described the "pivot of heels and knees!" in a poem whose speaker claims to be "the arrow, the dew that flies" while riding on horseback towards the rising sun. She compared herself to a "pure gold baby that melts to a shriek" in a poem that begins "I have done it again, one year in every ten" and ends "Out of the ash I rise with my red hair, and I eat men like air". In another of her poems, the image of a "man in black with a (*) Meinkampf look" represents her husband, Ted Hughes. That poem opens with the line "You do not do, you do not do" and tells the title figure "you bastard, I'm through." For 10 points, name this poet of "Ariel", "Lady Lazarus" and "Daddy", whose only novel The Bell Jar was published shortly before her 1963 suicide.
Sylvia Plath
5

109366-)
After being told by a friend that his impulse to defy tradition "may be from below," this man replied "if I am the Devil's child, I will live then from the Devil." This man argued that both abstractionist and materialist traits were possessed by another thinker who spent his whole life wondering "What do I know?" He urged people to become "Man Thinking" in a work heralded as an "intellectual Declaration of Independence." This author who described Montaigne as a "Representative Man" also delivered a speech to the Phi Beta Kappa Society and penned the maxims "Whoso must be a man, must be a (*) nonconformist" and "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds." For 10 points, name this thinker who delivered "The American Scholar" and wrote "Self-Reliance."
Ralph Waldo Emerson
5

109378-)
A sentence in one version of this story was described by its author as "grammar gone to seed"; that version of this story was "clawed back into a civilized language once more" from a French translation found by its author. Its frame narrative is set in a tavern in Angels Camp and involves the narrator's search for a man named Leonidas. The central character of this story once speculated on the fate of Parson Walker's wife and owns a bulldog named (*) Andrew Jackson. Simon Wheeler relates this story's central anecdote, in which a stranger uses some quail shot to win a forty-dollar bet with Jim Smiley, the proud owner of Dan'l Webster. For 10 points, identify this story about a talented amphibian, a work of Mark Twain.
"The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County" [or "The Notorious Jumping Frog of Calaveras County"; or "Jim Smiley and his Jumping Frog"; or "The Jumping Frog"]
5

109386-)
This author won a National Book Award for his collection A Crown of Feathers. Many of his works, like the novel The Slave and the story "The Slaughterer", advocate vegetarianism. He wrote about Hermann Broder's accidental bigamy and about the many loves of the stage magician Yasha Mazur in his works Enemies: A Love Story and The Magician of Lublin, respectively. The messianic cult of (*) Shabbatai Zevi sweeps the title town in another work by this author. His most famous short story is about a man who marries the unfaithful Elka, is mocked by Rietze the Candle-Dipper, and is told by the Spirit of Evil to use urine in his baking. For 10 points, name this Jewish-American author of Satan in Goray and "Gimpel the Fool."
Isaac Bashevis Singer
5

109404-)
This author's review of a work of technological utopianism by John Adolphus Etzler served as the basis for his essay "Paradise (to be) Regained". He described Mount Wachusett as "the observatory of the state" in one work, and he claimed that "the preservation of the world" lies in "wildness" in another. In one of his works, the section "Higher Laws" is preceded by an episode involving a visit to John Farmer's hut. That work by this man opens with the chapters "Economy" and (*) "Where I Lived, and What I Lived For". He asserted "that government is best which governs least" in a work that was partly inspired by his refusal to pay a poll tax that indirectly supported slavery. For 10 points, name this American author of "Civil Disobedience" and Walden.
Henry David Thoreau [or David Henry Thoreau]
5

109422-)
One of this author's stories ends with the line "I had Barbara," implying that Mrs. Ansley had an affair with Mrs. Slade's husband Delphin. The up-and-coming Mrs. Lemuel Struthers appears in another of this author's novels, which depicts the van der Luydens as the pinnacles of society. In that novel by this author of "Roman Fever," the protagonist marries Mrs. Mingott's granddaughter (*) May Welland. This author wrote a novel about the relationship between Countess Ellen Olenska and Newland Archer, as well as a novel in which the infirmity of Zeena leads the title character to engage in an affair with Mattie, which culminates in a sledding accident. For 10 points, name this American author of The Age of Innocence and Ethan Frome.
Edith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones]
5

109427-)
The main character of one of this author's novels leaves the title location after having a vision of a skyscraper as the Tower of Babel. In another of his novels, Janey Williams becomes the secretary of the advertising executive J. Ward Morehouse. That novel collects song clippings and headlines in sections called (*) "newsreels" and uses stream-of-consciousness in sections called "The Camera Eye." He included the biographical sketch "The Body of an American" in a trilogy whose middle book takes place during World War I and whose final book depicts the opulence of the 1920s. For 10 points, name this American author of Manhattan Transfer whose novels The 42nd Parallel, 1919, and The Big Money make up his USA Trilogy.
John Roderigo Dos Passos
5

109436-)
In one novel set in this city, the title character eyes a woman who reminds him of his dead wife Minna Davis during an earthquake. Post Office, Factotum, and Ham on Rye are among the works about a native of this city named Henry Chinaski. The "Burning" of this city is painted by Tod Hackett, who befriends Homer Simpson in another novel set in this city. Kathleen Moore become the mistress of (*) Monroe Stahr in another novel set here. This setting of Nathanael West's The Day of the Locust is also the home of Philip Marlowe, who appears in The Big Sleep. For 10 points, name this city home to Charles Bukowski, also the setting of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Last Tycoon, which centers on a movie executive in Hollywood.
Los Angeles, California [or L.A.; accept Hollywood until it is read]
5

109476-)
One character in this novel was prevented from inheriting $25,000 by his mentor's mistress Ella Kaye. Its epigraph describes a "gold-hatted, high-bouncing lover" and is attributed to the fictional poet Thomas Parke d'Invilliers. Its distinctive cover was painted by Francis Cugat. Musical pieces that appear in this work include Tostoff's "The Jazz History of the World" and the song (*) "Ain't We Got Fun", the latter of which is played by Ewing Klipspringer. Its narrator, who engages in a relationship with Jordan Baker, is riding in a blue coupe when Myrtle Wilson is struck and killed by a yellow Rolls-Royce. Nick Carraway narrates, for 10 points, which novel about a West Egg millionaire who loves Daisy Buchanan, a work of F. Scott Fitzgerald?
The Great Gatsby
5

109496-)
This poet described a "luminary clock against the sky" proclaiming the time to be "neither wrong nor right" in one poem. His poem "The Lesson for Today" is the source of his epitaph, "I had a lover's quarrel with the world." This author of "Acquainted With the Night" wrote of how "Eden sank to grief" and how "dawn goes down to day" in a poem about Nature's "hardest (*) hue to hold" and presented two possible ends of the world in his "Fire and Ice". This author of "Nothing Gold Can Stay" predicted that he'd be "telling this with a sigh, somewhere ages and ages hence" in a poem about a choice made in a yellow wood. For 10 points, name this New England-based poet who wrote "The Road Not Taken" and "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening".
Robert Lee Frost
5

109506-)
One part of this poem is a "litany of affirmation of the Lamb in its glory," according to its author in Deliberate Prose. Its narrator's peers release an "eli eli lamma lamma sabacthani saxaphone cry" and throw "potato salad" at "CCNY lecturers on Dadaism." Addressing a friend stuck in the "total animal soup of time" and condemning "Moloch whose mind is pure machinery," this poem's narrator assures Carl Solomon, "I'm with you in Rockland." Its narrator identifies with "angelheaded hipsters burning for the ancient heavenly connection." For 10 points, name this Beat poem opening "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness," written by Allen Ginsberg.
"Howl" 
4

109529-)
Lightning and Plautus are tortoises featured in a play by this man. Hannah Jarvis researches Sidley Park while Septimus Hodge tutors Thomasina Coverly in this writer's play about entropy, Arcadia. Another of his plays opens with two characters "passing time in a place with no visible character" by coin-flipping. The Player is stabbed with a retractable knife in that play, which features two characters "within un-, sub- or supernatural forces" that force them to die. For 10 points, name this absurdist playwright who plucked two characters out of Hamlet to write Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead. 
Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler] 
4

109532-)
In Inherent Vice, Shasta Hepworth is the ex-girlfriend of a man of this occupation, Doc. Nora and the dog Asta live with a retired member of this profession, Nick Charles. Canino kidnaps one of them who rejects Carmen Sternwood's advances. Another of this profession, Miles Archer, is killed after meeting Brigid O'Shaughnessy. This is the profession of a man who notices a letter in Minister D--'s hotel room and buys a newspaper ad about a lost orangutan. Another uses his "little grey cells" to figure out that the Armstrong family is connected to everyone aboard the Orient Express. For 10 points, name this occupation featured in hardboileds, the occupation of C. Auguste Dupin and Hercule Poirot.
detectives [or private investigators; or private eyes] 
4

109545-)
An early version of this poem speaks of a "blind old drunken man" listening to his own "madness singing." The speaker of this poem hears "mermaids singing, each to each". A series of perfect infinitives introduce the speaker's ambivalence towards an "overwhelming question". This poem describes "yellow fog that rubs its back upon the window-panes". This poem's speaker asks "Do I dare / disturb the universe?" and opens with, "Let us go, then, you and I". For 10 points, name this poem by T.S. Eliot that notes women who "come and go speaking of Michelangelo."
"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" 
4

109549-)
This play's last act depicts the dead as "matter-of-fact, without sentimentality, and, above all, without lugubriousness" and warns one of the newly dead not to relive a past memory. A choir repeatedly sings "Blessed Be the Tie That Binds" as directed by the alcoholic and suicidal Simon Stimson in this play, which is traditionally performed without a set or props. After being reassured that everything will be fine, George Gibbs and Emily Webb are married in its second act. This play is narrated by the omniscient Stage Manager. For 10 points, name this play set in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire and written by Thornton Wilder. 
Our Town 
4

109599-)
Some figures in this work "build harpsichords in their loft" and "throw their watches off the roof to cast their ballot for Eternity outside of time" Those figures in this poem are described as journeying to, dying in, and watching over Denver. The second section describes a figure "whose breast is a cannibal dynamo" and "whose blood is running money". That figure appears in a section before the speaker declares he is with Carl in Rockland, and that figure is named Moloch. Beginning with the line "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness", for 10 points, name this Beat Generation hippie anthem, the most famous work of Allen Ginsberg.
"Howl"
4

109614-)
The title character of one of this man's novels is a would-be writer who is in love with Ruth Morse. The title character of another novel by him is the brutal Captain Larsen, who captures the protagonist, Humphrey Van Weyden, and makes him labor aboard his ship. Those novels are Martin Eden and The Sea Wolf. The title character of another of his novels is born of Kiche and One Eye. His most famous character is at various times owned by Hal, Judge Miller, and Thornton, and is a Saint Bernard named Buck. For 10 points, name this American author of White Fang and The Call of the Wild.
Jack London
4

109631-)
In this novel, Eunice Simpson is tied to a chair and left near a furnace during a game of Shadrach, leading to the protagonists attending a colored church the next week with Calpurnia. After one character shows that his left hand is useless, Mayella Ewell is revealed to have lied about being beaten, but that doesn't prevent the Maycombe county jury from convicting Tom Robinson. Depicting the loss of innocence and a stark portrayal of race relations in the south, this is, for 10 points, what novel about the lives of Jem, Scout, and Atticus Finch, by Harper Lee?
To Kill A Mockingbird
4

109661-)
This playwright portrayed a hardworking, sharp, and earnest car mechanic who finds that all of his life's obstacles are overcome due to almost supernatural good fortune. That man was David Beaves, featured in his debut play The Man Who Had All the Luck. A manager of an aircraft factory who killed 21 pilots by authorizing the shipment of defective airplane cylinder heads during World War II, Joe Keller, experiences a tragic fall in a later play by this playwright, All My Sons. Known also for creating such characters as Abigail Williams, John Proctor, and Willy Loman, for 10 points, name this American playwright of The Crucible and Death of a Salesman.
Arthur Miller
4

109675-)
In this work, a misunderstanding causes one character to name her child "hello central". That child becomes ill, causing great anxiety for the protagonist's wife Sandy, and shortly afterwards occurs the bloody battle of the sand-belt. The protagonist is aided by Clarence, who helps him run his Man-Factory, which is used to educate peasants. The protagonist uses science to appear to work such miracles as restoring a dry fountain and causing an eclipse, which allow him to usurp the position of Merlin. For 10 points, name this work, which focuses on the time-traveling adventures of Hank Morgan, written by Mark Twain.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court
4

109700-)
One novel by this author is narrated by a spy who encoded messages to the U.S. War Department in his Nazi propaganda radio broadcasts. Another of his novels discusses a senator's son who controls the funds of a wealthy namesake philanthropic foundation. This author of Mother Night and God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater created a science fiction author named Kilgore Trout, who appears in many of his works. In perhaps this author's most famous novel, the protagonist is kidnapped by aliens from the planet Trafalmador and becomes "unstuck in time." For 10 points, name this author of Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut
4

109716-)
After this novel's protagonist is expelled for refusing to follow the standard practices in his field, he goes to New York City to work for Henry Cameron. His best friend joins a major New York firm, and he falls in love with the niece of a Socialist leader. The protagonist later agrees to help his college friend build Cortlandt Homes, but when his friend Peter Keating does not follow his directions, he detonates the project with the help of his future wife, Dominique Francon. For 10 points, name this  novel about rogue architect Howard Roark, a work by Ayn Rand.
The Fountainhead
4

109731-)
In a short story penned by this author, a male character known only as "the American" tries to convince his companion, Jig, to undergo an abortion. In another short story, this author portrays a writer named Harry reflecting on his life while slowly dying from an infected wound contracted during an African safari. These stories are "Hills Like White Elephants" and "The Snows of Kilimanjaro." This author also chronicled the journey of a professor who dies while fighting for the opposition army in the 1936 Spanish Civil War; that character is Robert Jordan, in For Whom the Bell Tolls. For 10 points, name this American Nobel Laureate notable for writing The Sun Also Rises and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest Hemingway
4

109759-)
One speaker in this work claims "You gave me hyacinths first a year ago/they called me the hyacinth girl" which precedes a section that repeats the phrase "Hurry Up Please, Its Time" which appears in the section A Game of Chess. Other sections in this work include What the Thunder Said and The Fire Sermon, and the epigraph acknowledges the influence of Ezra Pound on the author. Ending with a quote from the Upanishads, "Shantih, Shantih, Shantih," and beginning with the line "April is the cruelest month", this is, for 10 points, what long poem by T.S. Eliot.
The Waste Land
4

109764-)
One character in this work pays his way through college with humiliating janitorial work. Ewing Klipspringer lives at that character's house, and is known as "the boarder." One character in this work shows the narrator that none of the title character's books have been cut yet. That character, "owl eyes", is one of only three to attend a funeral at the end of the book. Other appearances of eyes in this work include those of Dr. T. J. Eckleburg, who looks out over the Valley of Ashes. Jordan Baker may have cheated in a golf tournament, and Myrtle Wilson is killed in a car driven by Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, Nick Carraway narrates what novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald?
The Great Gatsby
4

109790-)
One of his novels begins in 1949 soon after the death of the protagonist's grandfather when the protagonist chooses to leave the recently sold ranch instead of move into town. Another one of his novels begins with the unnamed protagonist meeting an enormous, hairless man inciting a mob to kill a preacher at a religious revival in east Texas. Another of this author's novel begins with Llewellyn Moss finding $2.4 million in cash at a drug deal gone bad, while Sheriff Ed Tom Bell tries to protect him from hitman Anton Chigurh. For 10 points, those novels, All the Pretty Horses, Blood Meridian, and No Country for Old Men, were written by what author?
Cormac McCarthy
4

109802-)
The central characters of this novel form the Pickwick Club, based on one characters reading of the Pickwick Papers. While living in Mrs. Kirke's parlor, one character meets and eventually marries the German professor Fritz Bhaer, after turning down a proposal from Theodore "Laurie" Lawrence, who then marries her sister Amy. Set in nineteenth century New England and depicting the lives of the four titular sisters, this is, for 10 points, what novel about Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy March by Louisa May Alcott.
Little Women
4

109812-)
The title character of one of this author's novels has a friendly meeting with George III after being captured by the British Navy, and is made a spy by Benjamin Franklin. The title character of another of this author's novels kills Glen Stanley and is in love with his half sister, Isabel Banford. In addition to writing Israel Potter and Pierre: or, the Ambiguities, he created a title character who serves aboard the Bellipotent, and is hanged for accidentally killing John Claggart. His most famous novel features such characters as Tashtego, Queequeg and Starbuck, and opens with the line "Call me Ishmael". For 10 points, name this American author of Billy Budd and Moby Dick.
Herman Melville
4

109832-)
One character in this novel carries rubber balls in his hands to explain away the crab apples he keeps in his cheeks. The protagonist of this work has a constantly high body temperature, allowing him to get out of his job whenever he feels like it, but is later hounded by a prostitute who tries to kill him. Earlier he had started a C.I.D. investigation by signing letters with the name "Washington Irving". Milo Minderbinder corners the market on Egyptian cotton and another character was promoted by a computer with a sense of humor, Major Major Major Major. For 10 points, this is what novel in which Yossarian battles the namesake paradoxical rule that keeps pilots flying missions, by Joseph Heller?
Catch-22
4

110351-)
This author wrote of an American sculptor who fell for the daughter of a Cavaliere [ka-vah-lee-EHR-ay], but died on his way to see her in Interlaken [in-ter-LAH-ken]. In another novel, he wrote of a protÃ©gÃ© [PROE-teh-jay] of Olive Chancellor who is conscripted into the women's rights movement, but Verena falls for Basil. This author of Roderick Ransom and The Bostonians penned a novella concerning the pursuit by Giovanelli [jyoe-vah-NEL-lee] and Winterbourne of an American tourist. Name this author of The Turn of the Screw and Daisy Miller.
Henry James
3

110358-)
This author described a gangster utilizing weather descriptions to send messages from Sing Sing prison. He wrote of an author who rode horses through Central Park before a love interest planned to leave the country with Jose Ybarra-Jaegar. This novelist also wrote of Alvin Dewey's investigation into the murder of the Clutters by Dick Hickock and Perry Smith. Name this author of Breakfast at Tiffany's and In Cold Blood.
Truman Capote
3

110363-)
This author wrote a short story in which a man built an exact replica of the mansion from "The Fall of the House of Usher." The prologue to one of his novels describes Halloween occurring at 3 AM on October 24. That novel described the arrival of the Pandemonium Shadow Show to Green Town. This author of Something Wicked This Way Comes wrote of atomic war survivors as "living books" that escaped the Mechanical Hound. Name this author of The Martian Chronicles and Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Bradbury
3

110375-)
In one collection, this writer described a maid allegedly scared by a white cow while pregnant, as well as forging a white man's signature to check out library books. This author of "The Ethics of Living Jim Crow" wrote about moving from Jackson to Chicago and joining the Communists in his autobiography. He also wrote of a college student who was accidentally killed by her black chauffeur. Name this man who wrote about Bigger Thomas in Native Son and whose autobiography was titled Black Boy.
Richard Wright
3

110396-)
A letter this character was meant to carry to Fort Edward was used by Montcalm in negotiations with Munro. He was taken prisoner during the rescue of Wah-ta-Wah. Before Abiram confessed, Ishmael Bush believed this man to be the killer of Asa. He correctly established that Oliver Edwards was shot by Judge Temple. Name this frontiersman sometimes referred to as Hawkeye who is a close friend of Chingachgook [CHING-gach-gook] in James Fenimore Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales.
Natty Bumppo (accept either, accept Trapper, Pathfinder, the Last of the Mohicans, or Deerslayer, accept Hawkeye  or Leatherstocking until they are mentioned)
3

110405-)
The narrator of this work speaks of a "dove that listens, while she gloats on the moon!" That narrator "shivers with affright at the melancholy menace" of the subject of this poem. The narrator of this poem describes "a world of merriment" foretold by the title objects. "Keeping time, time, time in a sort of Runic rhyme," those objects are silver, golden, brazen, and iron. Name this poem by Edgar Allan Poe which describes the tintinnabulation of the title noisemakers.
The Bells
3

110416-)
One character's love in this novel is revealed when a stolen glove is discovered. One character in this novel is seen weeping after selling her chestnut hair for $25. That decision was made to raise money to visit the family patriarch, a Civil War chaplain. At the end of this novel, Plumfield is turned into a school for boys by Professor Bhaer and his wife. One of its sequels was Jo's Boys. Jo's sisters were Meg, Beth, and Amy. Name this first novel about the March sisters, written by Louisa May Alcott.
Little Women
3

110438-)
This writer apologized for not following Ford Madox Ford's dictum regarding memoirs in My Life and Hard Times. He wrote of a non-smoker buying a pack of cigarettes as part of a plan to kill Mrs. Ulgine [OOL-jeen] Barrows in "The Catbird Seat." In another story, this author wrote of a character who refused to see Dr. Renshaw, whom that character then imagines referring a patient to him. That same character later imagines himself facing a firing squad. Name this author of "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty."
James Thurber
3

110442-)
This novelist wrote of the tale of Fray Baltazar, whose exploits were described to a man on his way to the mesa at Acoma [ah-KOE-mah]. Earlier in that novel, Magdalena reported the murders committed by her husband Buck Scales. She also wrote of a Bohemian peasant taken in by Mrs. Harling at the insistence of the grandmother of Jim Burden. Name this author of Death Comes for the Archbishop and My Antonia.
Willa Cather
3

110452-)
One of this writer's plays was based on the fairy tale Snow White and Rose Red, and centers on the stepsisters Bianca and Beatrice. In another work by this writer of The Lamp and the Bell, a woman who looked "nineteen, and not a day older" stayed up the night before Christmas making clothes for her son. This writer "had a little Sorrow, Born of a little Sin" in the poem "The Penitent." This poet and playwright wrote that "my candle burns at both ends" in the first poem of A Few Figs From Thistles. Name this author of "Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" and Renascence [reh-NA-sens], and other Poems.
Edna St. Vincent Millay (accept Nancy Boyd)
3

110466-)
The protagonist of this collection routinely walked along Trunion [TRUN-yun] Pike on the outskirts of the central town. Upon leaving on a train, that character thought of Turk Smollett and the lamp lighter Butch Wheeler. In this anthology, one character fell asleep while trying to grasp something a teacher was trying to tell him. That teacher was Kate Swift, the object of George Willard's affection. Name this story collection centering on a small midwestern town written by Sherwood Anderson.
Winesburg, Ohio
3

110486-)
One actor in this story draws on the horrors of World War Two in decrying the punishment of people "for walking round the world in the wrong skin." One messenger in this drama frequently proclaims that "I only am escaped alone to tell thee," and also claims that witnesses also suffer. The protagonist of this play learns of his son being shot, two other children dying in a car wreck, and a fourth being raped. Name this allegorical play with parallels to the story of Job [jobe], by Archibald MacLeish.
J. B.
3

110496-)
The plan at the center of this story's plot was devised "during a moment of temporary apparition," and attempted to play on the philoprogenitiveness of semi-rural communities. The title event was supposed to net two thousand dollars but ended up losing two hundred fifty dollars. That event was poorly planned by the narrator and Bill Driscoll. Name this O. Henry story in which the central figure drove the two kidnappers crazy.
The Ransom of Red Chief
3

110574-)
In one poem, this author asks, "can you love a monster of frightening name?" before advising the reader to kill the title creature to "let his soul run wild." This man penned "Genius Child" and discussed a woman who contrasts her life with a "crystal stair" in "Mother to Son." He wondered whether a certain thing crusts and sugars over "like a syrupy sweet" or whether it explodes. Though he declared that "I, too, sing America," he also speculated that some hopes "dry up like a raisin in the sun." For 10 points, identify this poet whose "soul has grown deep like the rivers," who wrote about "a dream deferred" in "Harlem."
James Mercer Langston Hughes 
4

110609-)
In this play, a blind Mexican woman comes around selling flowers for Day of the Dead. A character in this play is told she is "not clean enough to bring in the house with my mother," claims to receive a telegram from her old admirer Shep Huntleigh, and screams "Fire!" to avoid Mitch's advances. The Belle Reve plantation is in the backstory of this play, whose protagonist is led to an asylum after she says that she has "always depended on the kindness of strangers." For 10 points, name this play in which Stella and Stanley Kowalski are visited by Blanche DuBois in New Orleans by way of the title offstage vehicle, by Tennessee Williams.
A Streetcar Named Desire 
4

110624-)
The title people from a poetry collection by this man "came from the sea", and another work in that collection describes a beast who declares that his heart tastes bitter. In a novel by this author of THE BLACK RIDERS AND OTHER LINES, Mary and Jimmie kick the title character out of their house, and Nellie convinces the bartender Pete to leave that character. One of this man's characters leads a charge of the 304th regiment against a group of Confederate soldiers, and that character, Henry Fleming, had earlier dodges a question about his first wound. For 10 points name this American author of Maggie: A Girl of the Streets and The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane 
4

110633-)
One of this author's protagonists dines on pork and beans, spaghetti, bread, and catchup while camping by the fire-devastated town of Seney, Michigan. In another short story by this author, Max orders a roast pork tenderloin with applesauce and is at Henry's Lunch Room with Al to murder Ole Andreson. This author of "Big Two-Hearted River" and "The Killers" created Lady Brett Ashley, whose love affair with Jake Barnes cannot be consummated, and Pedro Romero, who kills a bull in Pamplona. For 10 points, name this creator of Nick Adams, an American who set The Sun Also Rises in Spain and depicted the fisherman Santiago in The Old Man and the Sea. 
Ernest Miller Hemingway 
4

110640-)
A novel by this author features the scientist Beenay from Saro University in Lagash, who learns about the Apostles of Flame. Alexander Adell and Bertram Lupov pose the title inquiry for the first time to Multivac in a short story by this man. Roj Nemmenuh Sarton, a resident of Spacetown, is found murdered in this author's The Caves of Steel. In another of his novels, Hari Seldon's development of psychohistory uses the laws of mass action to predict the future. This author of "The Last Question" and Nightfall put forth "Three Laws" for machines in the short story "Runaround" For 10 points, name this American science fiction author of the Foundation series and "I, Robot."
Isaac Asimov 
4

110655-)
A boy tells his toy, "Take me to where there is [this concept]!" after he hears his house whispering about money troubles and identifies Malabar as a winning racehorse in a short story by D.H. Lawrence. This concept is also used to denote a child who is initially called "the damned little cuss" and "Stumpy's boy." Though his Christian name is Tommy, that boy, the son of Cherokee Sal, drowns in a flood with Kentuck after he brings his namesake concept to the gold claims of Bret Harte's Roaring Camp. For 10 points, identify this concept paired with Joy to describe a mahjong club in an Amy Tan novel.
luck [or luckiness] 
4

110672-)
One character in this play describes a sixteen-year-old who made bar-goers laugh by ordering "bergin and water," and discusses his fear that everyone will become the same through rearrangement of "chromozones." In this play, a gun shoots out an umbrella and a "slim-hipped" character goes to vomit in the bathroom before the second act, entitled "Walpurgisnacht." In this play, Honey and her biologist husband Nick play games such as "Hump the Hostess" and "Bringing Up Baby" at the house of an academic couple whose alleged child never existed. For 10 points, name this play in which George's wife Martha often sings the title question, by Edward Albee.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? 
4

110687-)
This author wrote "the expression of the face balks account" in a poem recalling a farmer with five sons and a slave auction. He included "In Paths Untrodden" in his Calamus poems, and equated a list starting with "Upper arm, arm-pit, elbow-socket" to the Soul after "engirth[ing]" other people in "I Sing the Body Electric." This man sounds a "barbaric yawp" over the world's rooftops in a 52-section poem ending "I stop somewhere waiting for you," and wrote of a man "fallen cold and dead" on a boat in "O Captain! My Captain!", his lament for President Lincoln's death. For 10 points, name this non-straight American poet who included "Song of Myself" in Leaves of Grass.
Walter Whitman 
4

110705-)
This author wrote about a "crystalline light" with "Sybillic splendor" near sulphurous currents that roll down Mount Yaanek "in the misty mid region of Weir." He also wrote "All that we see or seem / Is but a dream within a dream." This man wrote about the dead maiden Ulalume and another maiden who had "no other thought / Than to love and be loved by me" and lived "In a kingdom by the sea." He wrote of objects "Keeping time, time, time" with "tintinnabulation that so musically wells," and a creature "perched on a bust of Pallas." For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Bells" and "Annabel Lee," who repeatedly wrote "Nevermore" in "The Raven."
Edgar Allan Poe 
4

110731-)
In this book, the protagonist's obese wife rushes to the hospital to see him but dies of carbon monoxide poisoning along the way. In this book, the stealing of a teapot leads to high school teacher Edgar Derby being shot, after which a bird says "Poo-tee-weet?" In the autobiographical first chapter of this novel, its author responds to a woman exclaiming that "you were just babies in the war" by reading up on the Children's Crusade. The protagonist of this novel is put in a zoo by Tralfamadorian aliens after surviving the fire-bombing of Dresden. For 10 points, name this novel about a man who has become "unstuck in time," Billy Pilgrim, by Kurt Vonnegut.
Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death 
4

110759-)
In a novel by this author, Percy Grimm shoots and castrates a character in Gail Hightower's house, and Lucas Burch works in a planning mill before fathering Lena Grove's child. This man described a narrator's sister as "smell[ing] of trees," and wrote about Joanna Burden's murder, which is blamed on Joe Christmas. In another novel by this author, a man who works on a golf course likes it when people call him by his sister's name. This author included Caddy and the mentally handicapped Benjy in a novel in which Harvard student Quentin Compson drowns himself. For 10 points, name this author who set Light in August and The Sound and the Fury in Mississippi.
William Cuthbert Faulkner 
4

110770-)
In one of this author's poems, a speaker says to "plunge your hands in water...stare in the basin / And wonder what you've missed." Another of his poems states that "Accurate scholarship" can tell us "What huge imago made / A psychopathic god." One of his poems say to "prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone." This author of "As I Walked Out One Evening" wrote that "We must love one another or die," and used the line "Stop all the clocks" to start his "Funeral Blues." For 10 points, name this English poet of The Age of Anxiety, who sat in a "dive" and reacted to the  outbreak of World War II in his poem "September 1, 1939."
Wystan Hugh "W.H." Auden 
4

110775-)
At the end of this play, one character remembers being "so happy for a time" and praying to the Virgin while wearing her wedding dress. An insomniac in this play is sensitive about her swollen rheumatic hands and her husband's snoring.  Doc Hardy's competency is challenged in this play, in which a stingy character throws away his acting potential by only playing one role for most of his career. In this play, Jamie's difficulty finding work leads to chiding from his father James, and Edmund's tuberculosis is cause for concern for Mary, who is addicted to morphine. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical play about the Tyrone family, by Eugene O'Neill.
Long Day's Journey into Night 
4

110778-)
This author wrote about Mrs. Pritchard, who tries to get Powell Boyd and his friends off of Mrs. Cope's property before the boys burn it, in "A Circle in the Fire." This author ended another story with the gripe that someone should have been there to "shoot" a woman "every minute of her life," and depicted Julian's racist mother flipping out aboard a bus in "Everything that Rises Must Converge." She wrote of Red Sammy's restaurant and a road trip to Florida in a short story in which a grandmother and her family are killed by The Misfit. For 10 points, name this Catholic Southern Gothic author who died of lupus after writing "A Good Man Is Hard to Find."
Mary Flannery O'Connor 
4

110798-)
This author's characters include the bouncer Joe Valery. In one book by this author, Lee discusses the meaning of the word "timshel" with a group of rabbis, and Faye is poisoned by Cathy, who takes over a brothel. This man created the narrator Samuel Hamilton, who tells us that Caleb failed to impress his father Adam Trask. In another novel by this author, a violent strike kills the former preacher Jim Casy, and Rose of Sharon breastfeeds a man after her baby is stillborn. For 10 points, name this American author of East of Eden, who detailed the Joad family's struggles getting to California from Oklahoma during the Dust Bowl in The Grapes of Wrath.
John Ernst Steinbeck, Junior 
4

110812-)
A character in this play reveals an affair with the lines "God help me, I lusted, and there is a promise in such sweat," and later yells "I have given you my soul; leave me my name!" when asked to sign a document. Thomas Putnam argues over money and land deeds in the play, whose key props include a doll with a needle in it. In this play, a man asks for rocks to be piled on him by exclaiming "More weight!" Girls are seen with the slave Tituba in the woods prior to this play, in which Giles Corey dies and John Proctor is led to the gallows. For 10 points, name this allegory for Joe McCarthy's anti-Communist scares, an Arthur Miller play about the Salem witch trials.
The Crucible 
4

110832-)
One man who makes a living using these objects calls up to an attic each Sunday to Sarah and suffers the trashing of his model T. The use of this object sends a "keen tremor" down Edna Pontellier's spinal column. Coalhouse Walker is a professional at using these objects, which Mademoiselle Reisz uses to entertain guests in Kate Chopin's The Awakening. Lori's grandfather gives one of these to Beth in Little Women. Boy Willie wants to sell old one with African-style carvings, which is held onto by Berniece, in an August Wilson play titled for their Lesson. For 10 points, name this large musical instrument which is played to create the title genre of E.L. Doctorow's Ragtime.
 pianoforte 
4

110850-)
This author wrote about a gun inscribed with the phrase "Et in Arcadia ego," owned by a man who incites a mob to murder a preacher accused of child rape at a revivalist meeting. In one of his novels, a gang collects $100 per scalp and a huge albino man dances naked after killing "the kid."  He also wrote of Carla Jean and Llewellyn Moss, who are murdered by a man who wields a cattle gun. This author of Blood Meridian described a boy and his father dodging cannibals as they travel through a post-apocalyptic wasteland in The Road. For 10 points, name this man whose Western-inspired Border Trilogy includes All the Pretty Horses, the author of No Country for Old Men.
Cormac McCarthy 
4

110872-)
One character in this work relates how he was unable to kiss the lips of a girl who cries onto a checkerboard, and that protagonist is hustled out of five dollars by an elevator boy.  The narrator accuses his brother of prostituting himself by writing screenplays in Hollywood and is irritated by the hygienic habits of Ackley and Stradlater, two of his classmates at Pencey Prep, which he flees to waste his savings in New York before returning home for Christmas break.  Narrated by the brother of Allie, D.B., and Phoebe, For 10 points, name this novel about Holden Caulfield written by J.D. Salinger.
The Catcher in the Rye
3

110899-)
In one poem by this author, the narrator determines to "Raise up thy thoughts above the sky that dunghill mists away may fly" and concludes by stating "The world no longer let me love, my hope and treasure lies above".  That poem also contains the lines "Adieu, adieu, all's vanity" and "My pleasant things in ashes lie".  Another poem by this author claims "My love is such that rivers cannot quench" and begins "If ever two were one, then surely we".  The author of "Verses Upon the Burning of Our House" and "To My Dear and Loving Husband", For 10 points, name this colonial American poet.
Anne Bradstreet
3

110909-)
One character in this play accuses his friend of being deaf during that friend's confusion as to his identity when asked to "glean what afflicts me".  Another character in this play is stabbed with a retractable dagger after first being discovered playing music in a barrel.  In addition to meeting an obscene troupe of players, one of the protagonists questions the laws of probability after a flipped coin repeatedly comes up heads, and after witnessing the corpse of Polonius, the protagonists are sent to be executed in England.  For 10 points, name this play about two Danish courtiers from Hamlet written by Tom Stoppard.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead
3

110930-)
In one work by this author, the protagonist gives a robin to a mentally retarded girl whose house he later burns down and attempts to kill John Greer.  In another work, Billy Parham flees after an attempt to rescue the Mexican prostitute Magdalena results in the death of John Grady Cole.  In addition to writing about Lester Ballard in Child of God, the priest Tobin and brooding Judge Holden are members of a band of scalp hunters joined by "the kid" in another novel by this author.  For 10 points, name this American novelist of All the Pretty Horses and Blood Meridian.
Cormac McCarthy
3

110947-)
In this work, a flock of crows encircling the protagonist's house is interpreted as a bad omen regarding the birth of his daughter, and the protagonist supports his family by pulling a rickshaw in a city which is looted by beggars when the wealthy flee the war.  During a time of flood, the protagonist frequents a tea shop where he meets Lotus Blossom, and after the death of the overseer Ching, the protagonist gives up working his own land, which his sons Nung Wen and Nung En plan on selling.  Following the family of the farmer Wang Lung, For 10 points, name this novel by Pearl Buck.
The Good Earth
3

110955-)
In this novel, the protagonist enjoys fishing at Burguete with Wilson-Harris and Bill Gorton before heading to the Festival of San Fermin.  Earlier, the protagonist has a drink with the prostitute Georgette but refuses to kiss her due to "sickness".  Montoya asks the protagonist for advice in handling the young bullfighter, Pedro Romero, but he introduces Pedro to an English Lady, which leads to a fistfight with a Jewish boxer, Robert Cohn.  For 10 points, name this novel about American expatriates in Europe, centered on Lady Brett Ashley and emasculated World War I veteran Jake Barnes, a work by Ernest Hemingway.
The Sun Also Rises
3

110986-)
Works by this author include one in which Gottfried Wolfgang sleeps with a guillotine victim and another in which the protagonist finds a heart and liver in his wife's apron and bargains for Captain Kidd's treasure from Old Scratch.  This author of The Devil and Tom Walker wrote a work in which Hendrick Hudson playing ninepins is associated with thunder in the Catskills, where the title character sleeps for twenty years, and also created Ichabod Crane.  For 10 points, name this American author of The Sketchbook of Geoffrey Crayon, which contains Rip van Winkle and The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.
Washington Irving
3

110997-)
The central character of this novel names a bra marketed as a "swing top" by Elaine for J. Peterman in a Seinfeld episode.  In an episode of South Park, Timmy is diagnosed with ADD after being read this novel and failing to remember what type of car the title character drives.  Its most notable film adaptation from 1974 was narrated by Sam Waterston and stars Robert Redford opposite Mia Farrow playing his love interest Daisy.  Narrated by Nick Carraway, For 10 points, name this novel written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Great Gatsby
3

111000-)
The protagonist of this work believes the two hundred dollars pinned to the inside of her shirt are stolen until her lover reveals that he spent it on a roast chicken dinner for his workfellows.  Earlier, a mistake in cutting a plug of tobacco earns the protagonist a blow from her husband, the mayor of Eatonville.  While escaping a flood, her final lover is bitten by a rabid dog and eventually forces her to shoot him.  Following the wife of Logan Killicks, Joe Starks, and Tea Cake, For 10 points, name this novel about Janie Crawford written by Zora Neale Hurston.
Their Eyes Were Watching God
3

111023-)
In one poem by this man, the speaker holds a pane of glass "against the world of hoary grass" and wonders if his sleep is "just human sleep", and in another, Warren finds Silas dead beside the stove.  The narrator of another poem remarks that he could say "Elves" to a man who is "all pine", whereas he is "apple orchard".  In addition to "The Death of the Hired Man", this man wrote a poem which states "I shall be telling this with a sigh / Somewhere ages and ages hence" and concludes "And that has made all the difference."  For 10 points, name this American poet of "Mending Wall" and "The Road Not Taken".
Robert Frost
3

111050-)
In one work by this author, one character believes his wife's interest in feminist literature to be God's punishment for fornication with Eskimos, and another sees Dr. Sartorius experimentally prolong the lives of tycoons such as Augustus Pemberton.  In another, the title character escorts Drew Preston after joining the gang of Dutch Schultz.  This author of The Waterworks and Billy Bathgate also wrote a work in which the pianist Coalhouse Walker is murdered and the wife of a fireworks manufacturer adopts a black child found half-buried in her garden.  For 10 points, name this American novelist of Ragtime.
E.L. Doctorow
3

111073-)
One character in this work runs off with a carnival pitchman wearing a red tie after stealing money which her uncle had made by hoarding and cashing child-support checks intended for her.  Another character is a Harvard student who imagines an incestuous relationship with his sister before drowning himself.  This work's final section focuses on Dilsey, the black cook for a family including the retarded and castrated Benjy and the aforementioned Quentin.  For 10 points, name this novel following the Compson family, a work of William Faulkner.
The Sound and the Fury
3

111092-)
In one work by this author, injuries sustained from a taxi in Athens prevent a writer from exchanging himself as a hostage for Swiss poet Jean-Claude Julien in Beirut.  In addition to that novel about Bill Gray, he described the journey of Bobby Thompson's "Shot Heard 'Round the World" baseball and created waste management worker Nick Shay.  In another novel, Willie Mink supplies Dylar tablets to Babette for her fear of death and Hitler Studies Professor Jack Gladney is exposed to the titular "Airborne Toxic Event".  For 10 points, name this American novelist of Mao II, Underworld, and White Noise.
Don DeLillo
3

111111-)
In one novel titled for this location, a gun received from Billy Biasse protects the protagonist from a gambler who threatens to turn him in to the police as an army deserter, Zeddy Plummer.  That novel concludes with the prostitute Felice and longshoreman Jake Brown choosing to leave for Chicago.  A poem titled for this location proposes festering like a sore and sagging like a heavy load as possible answers to the question "What happens to a dream deferred?".  The titular "Home" of a Claude McKay novel, For 10 points, name this location which titles a poem by Langston Hughes.
Harlem
3

111122-)
In a work by this man, a privateer named Henry Morgan sacks the city of Panama, while a paisano named Danny receives two houses from his grandfather in another. In addition to Cup of Gold and Tortilla Flat, he wrote a novel in which Coyotito is shot and the title object is thrown into the sea by Kino. This author of The Pearl created a character who envisions tending rabbits with George on their own land, and one of this man's novels follows the Joad family during the Dust Bowl. For 10 points, name this creator of Lennie Small, who authored Of Mice and Men and The Grapes of Wrath.
John Steinbeck
3

111151-)
In one play by this author, Max and Charlotte star in a play by Henry entitled House of Cards, while in a different play, Henry Carr recounts his experiences meeting James Joyce and Vladimir Lenin. This author of The Real Thing and Travesties wrote a play in which Higgs and Moon are shot by Puckeridge. Septimas teaches science to Thomasina in his Arcadia, and this author of The Real Inspector Hound wrote a play in which a coin comes up heads many times in a row. That work ends with the two title characters from Hamlet being killed. For 10 points, name this author of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
Tom Stoppard [accept Tomas Straussler]
3

111154-)
One poem by this author features a series of italicized stanzas in which a pair of birds sing songs on Paumanok. The conclusion of that poem focuses on the sea singing to the "solitary me" about death. This poet of "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking" wrote "Flood-tide below me! I watch you face to face" in "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry." Another of his poems concludes with the lines "But I / with mournful tread / Walk the deck my Captain lies, Fallen cold and dead," and that poem was written after the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "O Captain! My Captain" and Leaves of Grass.
Walt Whitman
3

111170-)
One character in this novel makes a list of "feathers in his cap" and "black eyes" every night. Kid Sampson is killed by the propeller of a low-flying plane, and a character who claims to be a photographer for Life magazine is named Hungry Joe. Michaela is raped and murdered by Aarfy in this novel, and the world's entire supply of Egyptian cotton is bought by the M&amp;M Enterprises. The protagonist is deeply affected by the death of Snowden, and a glitch in the IBM machine results in the promotion of Major Major Major Major. For 10 points, name this novel featuring a World War II bombardier named Yossarian, a work by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22
3

111184-)
This man's rewrite of his Battle of Angels features the musician Val, who always carries a guitar with him. In one novel by this man, the truck driver Rosario is killed, and Alvaro falls in love with Serafina. This author of Orpheus Descending and The Rose Tattoo wrote a work in which Maxine ties up one character in a hammock because he tries to swim to China. That character, Larry, later begs Hannah to free a tied-up iguana. A character created by this man kisses Laura Wingfield, while another is the son of Big Daddy, who drinks himself to death. For 10 points, name this author of The Glass Menagerie and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Tennessee Williams
3

111212-)
At the end of this work, one character obtains a record player and a new set of teeth. Another character seeking medicine for an abortion is taken advantage of by McGowan. One character in this novel is the illegitimate son of Reverend Whitfield, and a carpenter in this novel has cement poured on his broken leg after a disastrous attempt to ford a river. Gillespie's barn is set afire by one character, and another character claims that his mother is a fish. Cash builds a coffin for his mother in this work. For 10 points, name this novel largely narrated by Darl following the Bundren family, a work by William Faulkner.
As I Lay Dying
3

111239-)
In one of this man's works, Detective Woods arrests Kernan for the murder of Norcross, "The Clarion Call." One story by this man sees Mr. Behrman paint a leaf on a wall, while in another, Jimmy Valentine opens a safe in order to save a child. This author of "A Retrieved Reformation" wrote stories such as "The Furnished Room" in his collection The Four Million. He wrote about two kidnappers who pay Ebenezer Dorset to take back the title character in "The Ransom of Red Chief," and his most famous story features Jim and Della selling their most prized possessions to buy Christmas gifts for each other. For 10 points, name this author of "The Gift of the Magi."
O. Henry [accept William Sydney Porter]
3

111258-)
In one novel by this author, Eleanor Savage sends her horse charging off a cliff, ending her relationship with Amory Blaine. One character by this author is shocked to learn that books are real, and this author wrote a novel about the relationship between Gloria and Anthony Patch. Another of his characters claims to have fixed the 1919 World Series, and this author of This Side of Paradise and The Beautiful and Damned wrote a novel in which the title character is shot by George Wilson and given a funeral by Nick Carraway. For 10 points, name this American author of The Great Gatsby.
Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald
3

111277-)
One short story by this author sees the title character halt a procession led by Edmund Andros, and in another, a small orange lizard distorts itself to death. This author of "The Gray Champion" wrote about four old men who travel to Florida in search of the Fountain of Youth in "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment". He also wrote a short story in which Goodman finds his wife Faith at a witches' Sabbath. In his most famous novel, Arthur Dimmesdale fathers Pearl with Hester Prynne. For 10 points, name this American author of The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
3

111297-)
One character in this work parodies Gertrude Stein by saying, "A rose is a rose is an onion." Agustin almost kills a hill bandit for calling him a Negro, and Primitivo urges the protagonist to aid El Sordo during a battle. The elderly Anselmo is tasked to kill the Fascist sentry, and the protagonist of this novel is urged by Pilar to begin a relationship with Maria. Pablo steals the detonators in this work, but the protagonist uses grenades to blow up the bridge. For 10 points, name this novel set during the Spanish Civil War following Robert Jordan, a work of Ernest Hemingway.
For Whom the Bell Tolls
3

111328-)
In this novel, Mr. Emerson's son informs the protagonist that his "recommendation letter" is fake. The protagonist of this novel steals a coin bank from Mary, and was previously expelled from college by Dr. Bledsoe. The protagonist is mistaken as Rinehart in several occasions near the end of this novel, and he is injured when a boiler explodes during a fight with Lucius Brockway at Liberty Paints. Tod Clifton quits the Brotherhood and starts selling dolls instead, and Ras the Exhorter begins a riot at the end of this novel. For 10 points, name this novel featuring a "Battle Royal" scene, a work by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [do not accept "The Invisible Man"]
3

111349-)
In this novel, the main character resolves to never be subject to a public flogging, and that character beats the Red Whiskers, turning the Red Whiskers' hate for him into love. One character sends Squeak to harass the protagonist repeatedly, although the Dansker befriends him and helps him onboard. The protagonist is originally a sailor on the Rights-of-Man, but he is impressed into service onto the H.M.S. Bellipotent. John Claggart is killed by the main character after he accuses him of mutiny, and Captain Vere sentences the protagonist to hang for his crime. For 10 points, name this novel about a title sailor, written by Herman Melville.
Billy Budd, Sailor
3

111372-)
The plot of this novella is narrated by Douglas at a house party, and in this work, a strange apparition is seen in the tower and later through the dining-room window. One character does not attend church after one of her charges proposes to reenter school, and that character is employed at the country estate of Bly. At the end of this work, Mrs. Grose takes one of the children to her uncle, and the governess is instructed at the beginning not to contact her employer. The ghosts of Miss Jessel and Peter Quint haunt Miles and Flora in, For 10 points, what novella by Henry James?
The Turn of the Screw
3

111388-)
Alberto Pelagutti cheats on a "preference test" in this author's short story "You Can't Tell a Man by the Song He Sings." "Iron Rinn" loses his job as a result of his political affiliation in his novel I Married A Communist, and Charles Lindbergh defeats FDR in the Election of 1940 in The Plot Against America. Coleman Silk loses his job because of accusations of racism in this author's The Human Stain. One of his novels depicts the title character relating his sexual exploits to Dr. Spielvogel, and many of his works feature the recurring character Nathan Zuckerman. For 10 points, name this Jewish-American author of Portnoy's Complaint.
Philip Milton Roth [accept "You Can't Tell a Man by the Song He Sings" before "this author's"]
3

111395-)
In one of this man's poems, the narrator asks, "When did you look at your skin and decide you were an impotent dirty old locomotive?" His collection The Fall of America featured a poem which states that "I am an old man now, and a lonesome man in Kansas." This poet of "Wichita Vortex Sutra" also wrote "Strange now to think of you, gone without corsets and eyes" in an elegy for his mother Naomi titled "Kaddish," and he wrote "Who killed the pork chop?" in "A Supermarket in California." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote that "I saw the best mind of my generations destroyed by madness" in "Howl."
Allen Ginsberg
3

111433-)
One character in this play gives the protagonist a bus ticket to Laurel as her birthday present, and in another scene, he throws a radio out the window. The protagonist is disturbed when that character mentions her dead homosexual husband, and a fire breaks out while her friend Mitch tries to assault her. This play begins with the protagonist arriving at the Elysian Fields to see her sister Stella, who she has not seen since her marriage to Stanley Kowalski. Blanche DuBois is sent to an asylum after being raped at the end of this work. For 10 points, name this play by Tennessee Williams.
A Streetcar Named Desire
3

111448-)
One character in this novel temporarily loses her hearing after asking if she was put in jail for murder. That character is saved by Stamp Paid in the woodshed, and the protagonist of this novel attacks Mr. Bodwin with an ice pick after going insane. Another character believes that his heart is a tobacco tin with the lid closed tight, and the protagonist marries Baby Suggs' son Halle.  Sixo and Paul D. fail to escape the Sweet Home Plantation in, For 10 points, what novel which sees Sethe kill her infant child to protect her from slavery, a work of Toni Morrison?
Beloved
3

111470-)
This man wrote a short story in which Dennis Flange goes through an underground tunnel at a dumpster. In addition to "Lowlands," he wrote about a dog named Pugnax, who can communicate with humans in a work involving the skyship Chums of Chance. This author of Against the Day created Benny Profane and the Whole Sick Crew, and he wrote about a character who becomes the co-executor of the estate owned by her deceased boyfriend Pierce Inverarity. Another work of this creator of Oedipa Maas features Tyrone Slothrop's search for the V-2 Rocket. For 10 points, name this author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow.
Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Jr.
3

111478-)
One character by this author orders snails and frog legs at a restaurant, while another has a sophisticated conversation with Nicholson on a cruise ship. This author of "Teddy" also wrote about Seymour, who commits suicide after talking to Sybil about the title creature. "A Perfect Day for Bananafish" appears in his Nine Stories along with "Franny and Zooey." His most famous novel features the brother of Phoebe, who is expelled from Pencey Prep. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
Jerome David Salinger
3

111507-)
In one short story by this author, the protagonist breaks up with his girlfriend with the words "It isn't fun anymore." This author of "The End of Something" wrote about Ole Andreson's death being planned by two men who tie up Nick Adams, while another story describes Harry reflecting on his life while dying on an African safari. One novel by this author of "The Killers" and "The Snows of Kilimanjaro" sees Robert Jordan die while fighting for the Loyalists in the Spanish Civil War. A later work by this man sees an eighteen-foot marlin caught by Santiago. For 10 points, name this American author of The Sun Also Rises and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest Miller Hemingway
3

111527-)
One character in this work delivers phony checks to his mother, who immediately burns them. Another character in this work picks a fight with the hostess' son at a party and is a Harvard student who commits suicide by drowning himself. The narrator of this work is castrated for embracing a schoolgirl, thinking that it was his sister Caddy. This novel begins with Luster and Benjy walking along the golf course, which was once a large plantation. For 10 points, name this work about the Compson family, a novel by William Faulkner.
The Sound and the Fury
3

111571-)
This author wrote a poem in which the speaker describes the "silence of astounded souls" in "Crossing the Water." One speaker by this author states that "I shall never get you put together entirely," while another claims that "Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children." This author of "The Colossus" claims to "eat men like air" in one work, while in another, the speaker describes "a man in black with a Meinkampf look" before declaring "you bastard, I'm through." This author of "Lady Lazarus" and "Daddy" created a character who interns at the Ladies' Day magazine in New York City, Esther Greenwood. For 10 points, name this author of The Bell Jar.
Sylvia Plath
3

111594-)
Leduc escapes execution by the Nazis by using a white pass in this author's Incident at Vichy, and one of his plays sees the protagonist commit suicide the day before his house's mortgage is paid off. Joe Keller causes the death of twenty one pilots by shipping defective parts in this author's All My Sons, and Giles Corey calls for "more weight" in another of his plays. Tituba and John Proctor are accused of witchcraft in that play, and in another work Biff refuses to attend summer school after learning of his father Willy Loman's affair with another woman. For 10 points, name this American playwright of The Crucible and Death of a Salesman.
Arthur Asher Miller [accept Incident at Vichy before "author's"]
3

111603-)
One of this author's characters stays in the attic and edits the diary of Tom Outland. Another novel by this author features Father Vaillant and Bishop Latour, and Thea Kronborg gives a performance at the Metropolitan Opera House in a different work of his. One novel by this author of The Professor's House and Death Comes for the Archbishop sees Frank shoot Emil after seeing him with Marie, and that work describes Carl Linstrum's marriage to Alexandra Bergson. That author of The Song of the Lark also wrote about Jim Burden reminiscing about the title Bohemian peasant girl. For 10 points, name this author of O Pioneers! and My Antonia.
Willa Sibert Cather
3

111611-)
In this story, a bell sounds at four o'clock in the morning, before knocking is heard. Earlier, the narrator of this story is peeved by a sound similar to one that "a watch makes when enveloped in cotton" while standing quietly with a lantern. He later offers chairs to three policemen in this work, and chooses to sit above three certain floor planks himself. The narrator of this story is haunted by an old man's "vulture eye," which drives the narrator to commit murder. For 10 points, name this short story written by Edgar Allen Poe, in which the narrator is tortured by the beating of the title object.
"The Tell-Tale Heart" 
3

111632-)
This poet stated that "in the evening there was light" after hearing the description of a ruined land from the title creatures in "What the Birds Said." This man tells the title creatures of another poem to "stay at home" before exclaiming that "Mistress Mary is dead and gone." He described "It might have been" as the saddest words "of tongue or pen" in "Maud Muller," and the title character of one of his poems tells Stonewall Jackson to "Shoot if you must this old grey head / But spare your country's flag." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Barbara Freitchie" and "Snow-Bound."
John Greenleaf Whittier
3

111658-)
This work's narrator once held the post of Master of Chancery in New York. One character in this work obsessively adjusts the height of his desk and suffers from chronic indigestion, while another is an Englishman with florid complexion who is often intoxicated during the afternoon. The title character of this work is sent to the Tombs for vagrancy. That character used to work for the Dead Letter Office and is employed by the narrator alongside Ginger Nut, Turkey, and Nippers. For 10 points, name this short story featuring a copyist who repeatedly states, "I would prefer not to," a work of Herman Melville.
"Bartleby, the Scrivener: A Story of Wall Street"
3

111679-)
In one scene of this novel, the protagonist encounters a man with a shoeful of blood, and hears another man singing about "five an' twenty dead men/Baked in a pie." Shortly thereafter, he meets a "tattered soldier," who inquires after his health, and witnesses the death of a "tall soldier" who had previously claimed that he would run from a battle if everyone else did. That man was Jim Conklin. The protagonist rejoins the 304th New York Regiment and is cared for by his friend Wilson after suffering a minor head wound. For 10 points, name this work of historical fiction about Henry Fleming's service during the Civil War, written by Stephen Crane.
The Red Badge of Courage
3

111699-)
One character created by this man drops out of Rubicam's Business College after failing a typing exercise, while another is falsely reported to have been engaged to Emily Meisenbach. In another of this man's works, Maggie complains about Gooper and Mae's children and talks to Brick about their promised inheritance from Big Daddy. During the final scene in one of his plays, Blanche Dubois remarks that "I have always depended on the kindness of strangers" after suffering a breakdown. For 10 points, name this American playwright whose works include The Glass Menagerie, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Tennessee Williams
3

111721-)
In addition to claiming that she "never was born," one character in this novel confesses to stealing Miss Feeley's ribbon, Miss Eva's necklace, and Rosa's earrings, although she claims that the latter two items were "burnt up." That character is named Topsy and was presented to Ophelia, who is tasked with educating her. After Eva's death, her father, Augustine St. Clair, promises to free the title character but is unable to before dying. That character is later beaten to death by Quimbo and Sambo at the orders of Simon Legree. For 10 points, name this novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe that sparked controversy for its portrayal of slavery.
Uncle Tom's Cabin
3

111752-)
This author created one character, Toby Dammit, who is decapitated after agreeing to an ill-advised wager. Another character by this author loves the dancer Trippetta, and avenges himself upon a number of men who are dressed as orangutans. This author of "Never Bet the Devil Your Head" and "Hop-Frog" also described a woman who is coveted by "the winged seraphs of heaven," and in one poem he mentions a "pallid bust of Pallas" upon which perches a creature that only says the word "Nevermore." For 10 points, name this American author of "Annabel Lee" and "The Raven."
Edgar Allan Poe
3

111781-)
One character in this work is disappointed in his refrigerator, as his Hastings breaks down more often than his neighbor's General Electric. Another character is referred to as "quarterback with the New York Giants" and commits a faux pas by stealing a fountain pen. The protagonist claims to have "averaged a hundred and seventy dollars a week" the year that Al Smith was nominated, and whose son's football career is ended when he flunks math. For 10 points, name this play that features characters such as Uncle Ben, Happy, Biff, and Willy Loman, written by Arthur Miller.
Death of a Salesman
3

111794-)
This man relates that his father was from Bremen, and he claims to have escaped from captivity by throwing a man overboard while fishing. Among the items that this man recovers from a certain disaster were a number of firearms, carpentry tools, and "three very good Bibles" which he reads frequently. Although inexperienced, he creates pottery and teaches a parrot to call him by name while living on "The Island of Despair." He keeps track of time by marking a wooden cross as a calendar, and while fighting cannibals, he rescues a man whom he later names Friday. For 10 points, name this castaway, the title character of a novel by Daniel Defoe.
Robinson Crusoe [accept either underlined part]
3

111801-)
This man instructs readers to "love the earth and sun and the animals" and "argue not concerning God" in his work "This Is What You Shall Do." He mentions mechanics, "young fellows," and other musically inclined persons in "I Hear America Singing," and writes of the "flood-tide below me" in "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry." One character in a work by this man "has no pulse nor will" because he has "fallen cold and dead;" in another poem, this man claims to "sound my barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world." For 10 points, name this American poet, famous for works such as "O Captain! My Captain!" and "Song of Myself."
Walter "Walt" Whitman
3

111831-)
One character purchases a bottle of cologne for her mother as a Christmas gift. Another of this work's characters serves as governess for the daughters of Mrs. Kirke, and is later married to a man who starts a school for boys at Plumfield, Professor Friedrich Bhaer. The wealthy Mr. Laurence gifts a piano to a character in this work who contracts scarlet fever, and this work's protagonists give their breakfast to the Hummel family at the suggestion of Marmee. For 10 points, name this novel featuring Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy, written by Louisa May Alcott.
Little Women
3

111844-)
Wint Selby appears in one work by this man, where he introduces Richard Miller to the prostitute Belle. Later in that work by this man, David McComber withdraws his objections to Richard dating his daughter, Muriel. This man also created the character Don Parritt, who throws himself from a fire escape shortly after Theodore Hickman is arrested for murder. He won the Pulitzer Prize in Drama for one work in which Mary Tyrone is addicted to morphine. For 10 points, name this American playwright, the author of Ah, Wilderness!, The Iceman Cometh, and Long Day's Journey Into Night.
Eugene Gladstone O'Neill
3

111869-)
One character in this work, Major Marvy, is mistaken for this work's protagonist while wearing a pig costume and is subsequently castrated. While in the persona of "Rocketman," the protagonist of this work steals some hashish during the Potsdam conference, and is repeatedly administered Sodium Amytal. Bianca is the daughter of Margherita Erdman, who conducts a relationship with this work's protagonist, and this work sees Captain Blicero fires Gottfried from a rocket that bears the serial number 00000. For 10 points, name this work in which Tyrone Slothrop's sexual encounters foreshadow V-2 rocket attacks, a novel by Thomas Pynchon.
Gravity's Rainbow
3

111884-)
One work by this man takes place in a location that is "festooned with cobwebs" and contains a bust of Hippocrates, which is reported to have spoken the word, "Forbear." In another of this man's works, Elizabeth breaks off her engagement to Mr. Hooper, who wears an unorthodox article of clothing. This author of "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment" and "The Minister's Black Veil" also described a romance between Holgrave and Phoebe Pyncheon, who helps her elderly cousin Hepzibah take care of Clifford after he is released from prison in The House of the Seven Gables. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Hester Prynne in The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
3

111905-)
This novel's protagonist claims to be "Cain, Ulysses," and "miracle ingredient Z-247," as well as insisting that he has "Garnett-Fleischaker syndrome." Earlier, this novel's protagonist falls in love with a hospital chaplain while suffering from a liver "that fell just short of being jaundice," and he compares flying a B-25 to being in "a cantilevered goldfish bowl." This novel's protagonist is horrified when his friend Snowden is mortally wounded, and his mess officer Milo Minderbinder accidentally corners the world market for Egyptian cotton. For 10 points, name this novel that revolves around the military pilot Yossarian, written by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22
3

111926-)
This author described a Viking who escapes to America with his blue-eyed lover before committing suicide in his early poem, "The Skeleton in Armor." A character described as "a wife, but not a mother," falls from the moon in another of this man's poems; her daughter, Wenonah, is seduced by the West-Wind. This man also described "A line of black that bends and floats / On the rising tide like a bridge of boats," news of which is relayed to that poem's protagonist through lanterns in the North Church tower. For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote "Paul Revere's Ride" and The Song of Hiawatha.
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
3

111955-)
One character created by this man was wounded in Abyssinia during his youth, and claims to have participated in seven wars and four revolutions. That character, Count Mippipopolous, brings champagne to a character whose other acquaintances include Bill Gorton. Frederic Henry deserts from the Italian army in another work by this man, while the short story collection In Our Time features this man's recurring character Nick Adams. In his man's most famous work, the fisherman Santiago successfully catches a giant marlin. For 10 points, name this author of A Farewell to Arms, For Whom the Bell Tolls, and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest Miller Hemingway
3

111961-)
This work describes Religion as "the child of Hope and Fear" and relates the story of a sage who says nothing but "abracadabra." This work also claims that "God made the world in six days and was arrested on the seventh," and quotes a French plaque detailing the devouring of Benjamin Franklin by cannibals in the Sandwich Islands. It describes a conservative as "[a] statesman who is enamored of existing evils, as distinguished from the Liberal, who wishes to replace them with others." For 10 points, name this book that satirically defined a lawyer as "one skilled in circumvention of the law," a cynical work by Ambrose Bierce. 
The Devil's Dictionary
3

111981-)
This man created one work which takes place as he is "[w]alking down Bristol Street," and in which he hears a young lover declare that "I'll love you / Till China and Africa meet." He also wrote about a man who "knew human folly like the back of his hand." In one of his poems, the title character is said to have "disappeared in the dead of winter," and "[t]he day of his death was a dark cold day." For 10 points, name this author of "As I Walked Out One Evening," "Epitaph on a Tyrant" and "In Memory of W. B. Yeats."
Wystan Hugh Auden 
3

111992-)
In one story by this author, the title character is a salesman who fails to convince the narrator that the center of a room is the safest place during a storm. In a novel by this author, Daggoo is a 6'5" man who works for Flask and Father Mapple gives a hellfire sermon. In another story by this author, the title character used to work in a "dead letter office" and now works with Nippers and Ginger Nut. This author included "The Lightning-Rod Man" and "Bartleby, the Scrivener" in his collection The Piazza Tales, and his most famous work takes place mainly upon the Pequod. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Captain Ahab hunting a giant whale in Moby-Dick.
Herman Melville
3

112015-)
This character's voice is described as a "deathless song" and as "full of money" by different characters. A boxmaker named Biloxi collapsed at this woman's wedding; before the wedding, she threw away a string of pearls worth thousands of dollars. This woman tells her lover that he "always looks so cool" and when speaking of her daughter Pam, declares that the best thing a girl can be is a "beautiful little fool." Seeing silk shirts, this woman bursts into tears. A green light shines from her house in East Egg. This woman drives the car that hits Myrtle Wilson, the mistress of her husband Tom. For 10 points, identify this cousin of Nick Carraway and love interest of Jay Gatsby.
Daisy Buchanan [prompt on "Buchanan"]
3

112030-)
The daughter of a rich preacher in this play starts peeling labels off liquor bottles once it's revealed that she only married after having a false pregnancy. This play begins with a character quoting the Bette Davis film line, "What a dump!" A character in this play constantly complains about genetic engineering to a genetics professor. A character in this play tells a story about a boy who dies in a car crash, swerving to avoid a porcupine, before revealing that the boy is his imaginary son. In Act II of this play, "Walpurgisnacht", Nick and Honey get to play "Get the Guests." For 10 points, name this play about terrible party  hosts George and Martha, written by Edward Albee.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf
3

112052-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems commands the reader to "Take this kiss upon the brow!" The last stanza of another of this man's poems begins "For the moon never beams without bringing me dreams." This author of "Dream Within a Dream" wrote about a "sort of runic rhyme" in a poem about the "tintinnabulation that so musically wells" from the "moaning and groaning" of the title objects. He wrote of a maiden located at the "kingdom by the sea" in one poem, and described a "rapping at [his] chamber door" in a work taking place "Once upon a midnight Dreary." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Annabel Lee" and "The Raven."   
Edgar Allan Poe
3

112056-)
One character in this novel describes seeing his dead mother on New Year's Eve. This book's protagonist says most jazz performers have "it" during a concert by George Shearing, and enjoys the company of Victor while completing a divorce from Inez. This novel's narrator spends time with Terry during his first trip to San Francisco. The protagonist of this work is scolded by Old Bull Lee for his sporadic relationships with Camille and Marylou and often spends nights talking poetry with Carlo Marx. For 10 points, name this Beat novel detailing the adventures of Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty, written by Jack Kerouac.
On the Road
3

112069-)
A character in this novel gives candy to children and constantly runs to the doctor due to guilt over his wife's death by appendicitis. In this book, a character vows to remain an "old graveyard ghost" before losing his home to a sadistic bulldozer driver. The off-narrative chapters in this novel include one about selling jalopies, and another about a turtle struggling to cross the road. Connie Rivers flees early in this work, which ends with a dying man being suckled by Rose of Sharon. Earlier, the protagonist witnesses the death of a preacher turned Union leader, Jim Casy. For 10 points, name this novel about the Joads during the Dust Bowl, written by John Steinbeck.
The Grapes of Wrath
3

112105-)
The narrator of one poem by this author has "heard what the talkers were talking, the talk of the beginning and end" and discusses the "procreant urge of the world." Another work by this poet ends "Great or small, you furnish your parts towards the soul." That poem begins "Flood tide below me! I watch you face to face." The narrator of this man's most famous poem sounds his "barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world," and begins "I celebrate myself, and sing myself." For 10 points, name this American free-verse poet who included "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry" and "Song of Myself" in his Leaves of Grass.  
Walt Whitman
3

112109-)
One character in this novel is given a box of talcum capsules by MacGowan. In this novel, Samson allows the main characters to sleep in his barn, much to the chagrin of his wife Rachel. One section of this novel details 13 reasons why a character made a certain object "on the bevel"; the following chapter consists solely of the sentence "My mother is a fish." In this novel, Darl is sent to a Jackson mental facility while the rest of the central family travels to Jefferson, a city in this novel's author's fictional Yoknapatawpha [YOK-NA-PA-TAO-FA] County. For 10 points, name this novel following the Bundren family's attempts to bury their matriarch Addie, written by William Faulkner.
As I Lay Dying 
3

112148-)
The second act of this play is titled "Love and Marriage"; the title of the third act is left open to the audience. One character in this play laments, "Do any human beings ever realize life while they live it?", and when asked which day of her life she wants to relive, she goes back to see her twelfth birthday. A chorus led by Simon Stimson sings "Blessed Be The Tie That Binds" at a wedding finishing this play's second act. The conversations of the Webb and Gibbs families are intertwined in this play, set on a stage without scenery in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire. For 10 points, name this play about George and Emily, narrated by the Stage Manager, and written by Thornton Wilder.
Our Town
3

112159-)
One character in this novel tells about his smallpox-laden family in order to gain passage onto the Walter Scott. Readers of this book are warned that "persons attempting to find a plot in it will be shot." An antagonist in this novel stages the Royal Nonesuch after mixing up Hamlet's "To be, or not to be" soliloquy.The protagonist hides money in Peter Wilks's coffin to evade the duke and the dauphin, and escapes his abusive "Pap" before being taught by Aunt Polly to be civilized. For 10 points, name this novel in which the title character travels down the Mississippi with his slave-friend Jim and meets Tom Sawyer, written by Mark Twain.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn [or just Huck Finn]
3

112184-)
The speaker of one poem by this author asks "How many flies buzzed round you innocent of your grime" before telling the subject "you were never no locomotive." One of his poems asks a "lonely old grubber" his thoughts of America after watching Charon's boat descend into the "black waters of Lethe." This author of the "Sunflower Sutra" addressed a person who had thrown "potato salad" at some "Dadaism lecturers" in a poem which repeats "Moloch" in the second section.  His best known work begins "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness." For 10 points, name this Beat poet of "A Supermarket in California" and "Howl."
Allen Ginsberg   
3

112189-)
A character in this novel calls his friend a "fairy" for wearing a bright pink shirt. The protagonist of this novel does not cry after learning that his friend's heart was stopped by a piece of bone marrow.  In this novel, a game of Blitzball on the beach is played by members of the Super Suicide Society of the Summer Session. Suffering hallucinations, Leper Lepellier quits the army in this book. This novel opens at the Devon School, where the adult narrator reminisces about jumping off a tree into a river and causing Finny to break his leg. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Gene Forrester, by John Knowles.
A Separate Peace
3

112191-)
This short story's epigraph quotes The Castle of Indolence by describing "dreams that wave before the half-shut eye." One character in this story wants his adversary to vanish in a "flash of fire and brimstone," and is a strict follower of the "Spare the rod and spoil the child" proverb. At the end of this short story, the villagers find a hat and cracked pumpkin beside a brook. The protagonist is unable to escape the "goblin rider" by reaching a bridge, allowing Brom Bones to marry Katrina van Tassel. For 10 points, name this Washington Irving story in which Ichabod Crane is killed by the Headless Horseman.  
"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow"
3

112226-)
This story describes a "barleycorn" of a king whose "florid", "untrammeled" ideas had only been sharpened by progressive Latin neighbors.  The author of this story also wrote "The Griffin and the Minor Canon." At its conclusion, one character in this story silently signals to the right. One title character experiences sleepless nights after she discovers the secrets of the doors, debating what to tell her death-sentenced lover. This story's last line is, "And so I leave it with all of you. Which came out of the opened door?" then the title phrase. For 10 points, name this short story by Frank R. Stockton about a choice between a ferocious feline and a beautiful woman.
"The Lady or the Tiger" [do not accept "The Lady and the Tiger"]
3

112233-)
One character participating in this conflict compares his inability to flee to a "little finger [committing] a revolution from a hand". Another character participating in this conflict compares man to a "murderin' angel". Frank Kennedy dies during this conflict, the subject of Allen Tate's most famous poem and Michael Shaara's The Killer Angels. During this war, a young character is entrusted to be a flag bearer and witnesses the death of Jim Conklin. Scarlett O'Hara struggles to function during this war in Gone With the Wind. For 10 points, name this war faced by Henry Fleming in Stephen Crane's The Red Badge of Courage.     
American Civil War 
3

112247-)
A character in this play reflects that she had two dreams: to become a nun, and to become a professional pianist. Symbols in this play include whiskey which is continually becoming more dilute, and a constantly blaring foghorn. A penny-pinching character in this play was typecast as a Shakespearean actor, so he can't find a job. The servant Cathleen and the quack Doc Hardy are minor characters in this work. Every time one character goes upstairs, she injects morphine. At this play's end, Edmund announces he has tuberculosis to his mother, Mary Tyrone. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical play by Eugene O'Neill.
Long Day's Journey Into Night
3

112262-)
This author wrote about a brat afflicted with diphtheria and the doctor who gets sick pleasure for causing her pain in his story "The Use of Force." He repeated the line "I come, my sweet/To sing to you" in a poem written in tercets set off by indentation. A poem by this author mentions objects that were "so sweet/And so cold", which another character was "probably saving for breakfast". This author of "Asphodel, That Greeny Flower" wrote of a "splash, quite unnoticed" in one of his Pictures from Brueghel, and noted that "so much depends" upon an object "glazed with rain water" "beside the white chickens." For 10 points, name this Imagist poet of "The Red Wheelbarrow."
William Carlos Williams
3

112267-)
After this event, townspeople send a central character fried chicken and rolls for breakfast. During it, two characters disagree about when a man chopped down a chiffarobe. Link Deas is kicked out of this event. Reverend Sykes saves seats when one character leaves this event to drink soda out of a paper bag with Dolphus Raymond. A man at this event points out that a cripple with his left hand in a sling couldn't hit the left side of a girl's face. That man is shot 17 times fleeing prison. Mayella protests that she was raped, not beaten by her father Bob Ewell, and the jury returns a guilty verdict. For 10 points, name this spectacle of Maycomb County, a trial which Atticus Finch loses.
the trial of Tom Robinson in To Kill a Mockingbird [or the trial in To Kill a Mockingbird; or anything demonstrating knowledge of a trial and the book it happens in; prompt on just "To Kill a Mockingbird"]
3

112324-)
One story in this collection concerns a character who inexplicably adopts the fake name Henry R. Freeman when he goeson vacation in Europe, where he rents a rowboat to visit the private island "Isola del Dongo" on Lake Maggiore and falls inlove with the mysterious Isabella. The protagonist of another story has his briefcase containing a chapter of his critical studyof Giotto stolen by a mysterious beggar who had followed him in Rome for days. "The Lady of the Lake" and "The LastMohican" appear in this collection, which features a story about a poor tailor who discovers his sick wife Fanny has miraculouslyhealed aftfter visiting the seedy Harlem cabaret Bella'sand telling the title large black man, "I think you are an angel fromGod." The protagonist of the title story mistakenly discovers a photo of Stella aftfter hiring the services of a matchmaker whosuggests girls by drawing names from the title object. The story "Angel Levine" appears in this collection whose title storyconcerns Leo Finkle falling in love with the disreputable daughter of Pinye Salzman. For 10 points, name this National BookAward-winning, 1958 short story collection by Bernard Malamud.
The Magic Barrel
8

112381-)
One character in this essay tells a long, embarrassing anecdote about covering his wife's nude body with a sombrero so aplumber can help her aftfter she is sucked into a toilet by a powerful sewage system, which turns out to be a terrible set-upfor a one-line joke. In one scene in this essay the stuck-up Mona deceitfully tells a waiter that it's her birthday even thoughit's actually the birthday of her tablemate Alice. An essay by Frank Conroy is quoted throughout this work to explicate anattitude dubbed "pampering." This essay ends with the narrator going into a visionary trance during the performance of acruel hypnotist named Nigel Ellery. Its narrator attends a lecture given by Scott Peterson in the Rainbow Room and becomesinfatuated with the maid Petra while staying in Cabin 1009. This essay begins with the narrator waiting at Fort Lauderdaleairport to board the Zenith, which is renamed the Nadir in a footnote. It was originally published in Harper's as "ShippingOut." For 10 points, name this essay about a horrible seven-day cruise by David Foster Wallace.
"A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again"
8

112441-)
This author wrote a story in which a drunken Ulysses S. Grant confuses Robert E. Lee for RobertBrowning at Appomattox. In another of this man's works, the title character says "Puppy biscuit" out loudwhile going into the A&amp;P store. That title character says, "To hell with the handkerchief," as he is about tobe shot at the end of the story. This author wrote about Mr. Martin's plot to get rid of obnoxious Dodgersfan Ulgine Barrows in "The Catbird Seat." In his most famous story, the title character imagines himself asa flying ace and a brilliant surgeon. For 10 points, name this humorist, who wrote "The Secret Life ofWalter Mitty."
James Thurber
7

112445-)
The protagonist of this work is brought to tears by a Chopin impromptu mentioned by another characterin a letter sent from Mexico. In this novel, the "lady in black" remains silent and the Farival twins play thepiano for guests. The protagonist collapses into her porch hammock after learning how to swim, and later,she strips herself naked before drowning. Mrs. Highcamp invites this novel's protagonist to attend theraces with her and Alcee Arobin. The resort called Grand Isle is the setting for much of this novel, in whichDoctor Mandelet suspects that Leonce's wife is having an affair with Robert Lebrun. For 10 points, namethis novel about Edna Pontellier written by Kate Chopin.
The Awakening
7

112463-)
The protagonist of this work attempts to get information by visiting Sybil, who instead gets drunk and wants him to rape her. In its first chapter, the protagonist shouts "social equality!" after being forced to repeat the words "social responsiblity" when laughter drowns out his speech. This novel's narrator serves as a guide for the trustee Mr. Norton, who faints after (*) Jim Trueblood describes committing incest with his daughter; after that incident, the protagonist is expelled by Dr. Bledsoe. Later, its narrator befriends Tod Clifton after joining the communist Brotherhood, which is opposed by Ras the Exhorter. 1,369 lights light the room of its unnamed black narrator. For 10 points, name this novel by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [do NOT accept "The Invisible Man"]
5

112490-)
This author wrote of "a hundred Watts / Detroit, Newark and New York" in the poem "Riot: '60s". "Where Love is a Scream of Anguish" is the first part of her collection Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water 'fore I Diiie. In one work by this author, the protagonist and her brother Bailey Jr. are sent to Stamps to live with Momma, who runs the William Johnson General Merchandise Store. That work told of her (*) rape by Mr. Freeman and was followed by The Heart of a Woman and Gather Together in My Name. She used a line from a Paul Laurence Dunbar poem to title her autobiography and read her poem "On the Pulse of Morning" at Bill Clinton's inauguration. For 10 points, name this African-American author of I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Maya Angelou [or Marguerite Ann Johnson]
5

112496-)
This poet wrote of how "The generous earth itself gave us life" and how "The whole world became my garden!" in a poem addressed to his wife Flossie that exemplifies the "triadic line" form that he invented. He included a poem beginning on "the road to the contagious hospital" in his collection Spring and All and claimed that there are "no ideas but in things" in a five-book poem about a city on the Passaic. This author of "Asphodel, That Greeny Flower" and (*) Paterson asks the reader to "forgive me / they were delicious" in a poem about eating plums and described an object "glazed with rain water" upon which "so much depends" in his most famous poem. For 10 points, name this Imagist poet of "This is Just to Say" and "The Red Wheelbarrow".
William Carlos Williams
5

112525-)
This character tortures his young servant boy by burning two tickets to the carnival he wants to attend in front of him. His only love interest is a Memphis prostitute named Lorraine. This man scams his niece out of four thousand dollars worth of checks from her mother, but she takes her revenge by stealing all the money in his iron strongbox and running away. This character is the narrator of the section "April 6, 1928". This employee at Earl's Hardware Store has his (*) retarded brother castrated after he attacks a girl. Cold and greedy, he embezzles from his niece Quentin and despises his siblings Caddy and Benjy. For 10 points, name this racist third child of the Compson family from Faulkner's The Sound and the Fury.
Jason Compson IV [prompt on "Compson"; do NOT accept or prompt on "Jason Compson III"]
5

112538-)
Ancestors of this work's protagonist include a man who set fire to a village using a pitch-pine knot and a constable who once whipped a Quaker woman in public. One character chides its protagonist for being late, noting that the Old South clock had struck 15 minutes ago. Another character in this work is given a serpentine staff which seems to come to life. This story's protagonist is horrified to find a (*) pink ribbon in a tree branch, after which he flies with the help of a maple stick. The title character meets Deacon Gookin and Goody Cloyse while walking with a mysterious figure into the forest, where he discovers the townspeople, including his wife Faith, participating in a Satanic ritual. For 10 points, name this short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
"Young Goodman Brown"
5

112559-)
This author wrote a work in which the protagonist screams, "Don't! Break! Human! Pride!" after beingberated by vocal teacher Judith Fellowes. In that work by this man, the Herzkopfs are a German couplestaying at a location run by Maxine Faulk. This author created the Reverend Lawrence Shannon, anex-minister who arrives at the Costa Verde Hotel in Mexico as a tourist guide. In another of his works, acharacter is haunted by the recent death of his football playing friend, Skipper. In that play by this man,Gooper and Mae eagerly await their inheritance, while Maggie and her husband Brick eventually revealthat Big Daddy is dying. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote The Night of the Iguana and Caton a Hot Tin Roof
Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III]
7

112562-)
One character in this novel sings the blues song "Mama Doan Wan' No Peas." One of this novel'scharacters nearly had sex with Romola Martin while working as a hotel's bookkeeper. Another charactersells silver polish door-to-door and jokes around because he used to be a clown. The dwarf Abe Kusichworks as a bookie for Miguel's cockfights in this novel. At the end of this novel, the brat Adore Loomisthrows a rock at one of the main characters, whose violent reaction causes a mob to riot against him. Theother main character is painting a canvas called The Burning of Los Angeles. For 10 points, the designerTod Hackett and the screenwriter Homer Simpson are the protagonists of what Hollywood-set novel byNathanael West?
The Day of the Locust
7

112583-)
One of this author's poems describes four girls who encounter a starfish, a shell, a "horrible thing," anda "smooth round stone" before noting "it's always ourselves we find in the sea." In another of his poems, heclaims the addressee opens him "petal by petal, as Spring opens...her first rose" and concludes "nobody, noteven the rain, has such small hands." This poet of "maggie and milly and molly and may" and "somewhereI have never travelled, gladly beyond" described how "someones married their everyones and laughed theircryings and did their dance" in "anyone lived in a pretty how town." For 10 points, name this poet knownfor eschewing grammar and punctuation.
Edward Estlin Cummings
7

112594-)
One character in this play frets that her copy of Mademoiselle de Maupin will be discovered. Anothercharacter attempts to defuse a tense situation by revealing that the Lyceum in Rochester has a toiletbackstage. The antagonist of this play breaks an ornament at the end of the first act, lies about there being akeyhole on a door, and is motivated by being forbidden to go to the boat races. Earlier, that character showsup late to a class reciting lines from The Merchant of Venice and pretends to faint in a plan thwarted by thedoctor Joe Cardin. In this play, Rosalie is coerced into lying by Mary Tilford, who accuses Martha Dobieand Karen Wright of lesbianism. For 10 points, name this play by Lillian Hellman.
 The Children's Hour
7

112605-)
This poem describes trees "white with dust, thatÂ…wave their broad curtains in the south-wind's breath."This poem states, "The groaning earth in travail and in pain brings forth its races" after describing a group"Taught in the school of patience to endure the life of anguish and the death of fire." The speaker angrilydefends the people "underneath these leafy tents" who "keep the long, mysterious Exodus of death." For10 points, name this poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow describing "These Hebrews in their graves,close by the street of this fair seaport town."
 "The Jewish Cemetery at Newport"
7

112620-)
This character is compared to a plaster-of-paris bust of Cicero, and in a later conversation, he stares atthat bust of Cicero rather than the man he is talking to. After this character enigmatically says, "Do you notsee the reason for yourself," another character believes that his eyesight has become impaired. Upon thischaracter's death, he is said to be sleeping "with kings and counselors." This character starves himself inprison after steadily decreasing his activities with the repeated justification, "I would prefer not to." For 10points, name this title scrivener of a Herman Melville story.
Bartleby
7

112631-)
In this novel, the protagonist becomes drunk while listening to a self-described follower of Helmholtzrelate how he was forced to flee Germany after choking a cavalry officer. That meeting allows theprotagonist to forget about Clif Clawson. The title character of this novel meets his first wife during a stintas a waiter in a Canadian hotel, and he marries the wealthy socialite Joyce Lanyon after that wife dies ofthe plague on the island of St. Hubert. With his wife Leora Tozer, the protagonist abandons the "truescience" and moves to the city of Nautilus before he joins the research team that isolates a bacteriophage tokill pneumonia at the behest of his mentor Max Gottlieb. For 10 points, name this novel about a doctor bySinclair Lewis.
Arrowsmith
7

112651-)
This poet declared, "The pure products of America go crazy" in a poem about a materialist with"ungainly hips and flopping breasts," "To Elsie." Responding to T.S. Eliot's "The Wasteland," he describedthe "stiff curl of wildcarrot leaf" that grows up in the muddy terrain "by the road to the contagioushospital." This poet of Spring and All befriended Ezra Pound at Pennsylvania Medical School and coinedthe maxim "no ideas but in things." His works include a lengthy poem about a town in New Jersey and ashorter poem describing an object "glazed with rain water beside the white chickens." For 10 points, namethis American modernist poet who wrote Paterson and "The Red Wheelbarrow."
William Carlos Williams
7

112665-)
One character in this play has had seven children who all died within a day of their birth, leading her totask her only living child, Ruth, to investigate the cause of her misfortunes. Another character in this play ispregnant and thus is able to obtain a stay of execution until she has given birth. In this play, one characterwho wants his land to pass to his own sons chooses to die under the weight of many stones rather thanconfess to a crime. At its opening, Mr. Parris believes that the reason that his daughter Betty is in acatatonic state has something to do with her cavorting in the forest with Tituba. For 10 points, name thisplay in which the accusations of Abigail Williams lead to the death of John Proctor, a work of ArthurMiller.
The Crucible
7

112673-)
 One man in this novel gives a speech, rifle in hand, from the roof of his porch. That man, Sherburn,mocks a mob for being unable to kill him in daylight. This book's title character is shown a magic hairballand fakes his own death by shooting a pig. Hemingway opined that this novel should end as the titlecharacter resolves, "All right then, I'll go to hell," before he goes to the Phelps estate to find a friend. Thisnovel's title character travels through the Grangerford-Shepherdson feud and puts up with awfulShakespeare from two conmen pretending to be noble, the Duke and the Dauphin. For 10 points, name thisnovel in which the slave Jim floats down the Mississippi with the title boy, written by Mark Twain.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn [or Huck Finn]
7

112685-)
One character created by this man mysteriously replies, "Do I not?" when asked if he understands theshouting of a group of natives. In one work by this man, a Dutch trader moves into an abandoned house andbegins an opium addiction after his daughter Nina marries a native of the East Indies. In another work bythis author of Almayer's Folly, a man in love with the revolutionary Antonia is assigned to guard a hoard ofsilver until he kills himself, forcing the title character to take over. This author also wrote a novel in whichthe butterfly collector Mr. Stein finds a post for the title character on Patusan, where he befriends DainWaris. For 10 points, name this author of Nostromo and Lord Jim, whose recurring character Marlow alsonarrates Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad [or Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
7

112689-)
One Edna St. Vincent Millay poem begins with the speaker claiming that "I know I am but summer to"one of these objects. In William Butler Yeats's poem "The Circus Animals' Desertion," the speaker claimsthat he must lie down in "the foul rag and bone shop of" this object. The speaker of one poem by e. e.cummings "fear[s] no fate" and "want[s] no world" because he carries this object with him. In one of hisHoly Sonnets, John Donne asks a three-personed God to batter this object. For 10 points, identify thisorgan, a "Tell-Tale" one of which thumps under the floorboards in a short story by Edgar Allan Poe.
 the heart [or any pronoun followed by heart, e.g. accept "my heart" or "your heart"]
7

112702-)
The protagonist of this work publicly humiliates her husband by remarking that when he pulls down hisbritches, he looks like "the change of life." In this novel, the protagonist grows jealous of Nunkie and fearsthat her husband will be like Who Flung, who stole Annie Taylor's money after they were married. In thiswork, the mayor of a certain town needs to feel like a "big voice." This work's protagonist is offered riceby the woman to whom she recounts her story after returning to Eatonville. Earlier, she shoots her lover inself-defense several weeks after he is bitten by a rabid dog. After the death of Jody Starks, the protagonistmarries Tea Cake. For 10 points, Janie Crawford is the protagonist of what novel by Zora Neale Hurston?
Their Eyes Were Watching God
7

112719-)
One poem by this poet describes a creature who "thinks the moon is a small hole at the top of the sky"and who may give you his tear, "cool as from underground springs and pure enough to drink." Another ofher poems describes the explosion of one of the "frail, illegal fire balloons" and concludes with the imageof a "weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky." In one of her poems, an almanac says, "Time toplant tears," as the grandmother sings. This poet of "The Man-Moth" and "The Armadillo" recalls, "somerealms I owned, two rivers, a continent" in a villanelle beginning, "The art of losing isn't hard to master."For 10 points, identify this American poet of "Sestina" and "One Art."
Elizabeth Bishop
7

112733-)
In one of this author's poems, the universe replies to a man's claim to existence with the statement, "Thefact has not created within me a sense of obligation." This author also wrote a poem in which "many reddevils ran from my heart and out upon the page." This writer wrote a poem in which a "naked, bestial"creature claims to like eating his heart, "because it is bitter, and because it is my heart." This poet wrote"Do Not Weep, Maiden, for War Is Kind" and the poetry collection The Black Riders. In one of his novels,"the tattered man" and Jim Conklin are among the companions of Henry Fleming. For 10 points, identifythis author of The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane
7

112748-)
This object belongs to a boy named Kenneth in the unpublished short story, "The Ocean Full ofBowling Balls." One character throws an essay on this object in the trash because it was on the wrongsubject, leading to a fight between him and his roommate. Jane Gallagher is the only non-family member tohave seen this object, which is covered by poems written in green ink. This object belonged to aleft-handed boy who died on July 18, 1946 of leukemia. That night, his brother, who now treasures thisobject, broke all the windows in the garage. For 10 points, name this object kept by Holden Caulfield andwhich was presumably used by his brother Allie to catch fly balls
Allie Caulfield's baseball mitt [or Allie Caulfield's baseball glove]
7

112755-)
In one scene, this character looks out the window and sees a young dog watching a flock of wild geese,with the lead goose "bigger than the others." He screams "Air Raid!" while he is being shaven and notes ofthe story he tells, "it's the truth even if it didn't happen." After being offered a stick of Juicy Fruit, this manreveals that he is not a deaf-mute. This character refers to society as a "Combine" committed to controllinghumanity. At the end of the novel in which he appears, this hall-sweeper smothers a lobotomized RandlePatrick McMurphy before escaping from an asylum run by "Big Nurse." For 10 points, name this six-footeight half-Native American schizophrenic who narrates Ken Kesey's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.
Chief Bromden [or Chief Broom ; or the Chief]
7

112767-)
In one poem, this poet wrote, "This is the hour of lead, remembered, if outlived, as freezing persons,recollect the snow." This poet also wrote, "Orpheus' sermon captivated, it did not condemn," in a poembeginning "The Bible is an antique volume written by faded men." In another poem, she describes "animperial affliction sent us of the air" whose going is "like the distance on the look of death." In another ofher poems, the speaker notes, "The stillness in the room was like the stillness in the air." For 10 points,name this American poet who wrote poems beginning "There's a certain slant of light" and "I heard a flybuzz, when I died."
Emily Dickinson
7

112771-)
One character in this play questions by why one can stir jam into rice pudding but never unstir it, andearlier questions the meaning of the phrase "carnal embrace." Another character in this play states that "it'swanting to know that makes us matter." Characters in this play include Bernard Nightingale, who givesHannah Jarvis's book about Lady Caroline Lamb a poor review. A character in this play dies in a fire on thenight of her seventeenth birthday, possibly causing Septimus Hodge to become the hermit of Sidley Park.For 10 points, identify this play about mathematics genius Thomasina Coverly and the Croom estate,written by Tom Stoppard.
Arcadia
7

112791-)
This man is humiliated by a bartender when he tries to seduce Belle Carpenter. A doctor rushes to tellthis man that "the world is Christ and they are all crucified" when the doctor fears he is to be lynched. Hedecides to fall in love with the banker's daughter to help him write a story, angering his friend SethRichmond. He worries he "missed something" his former schoolteacher was trying to tell him after she firstembraces and then flees from him. A student of Kate Swift, this man has a mother who is loved by DoctorReefy, who writes down thoughts on bits of paper he stuffs in his pockets. For 10 points, name this reporterfor the Winesburg Eagle, who leaves his Ohio hometown in a Sherwood Anderson work.
George Willard [or George Willard]
7

112794-)
This poem's images include "theatrical distances, bronze shadows heaped on high horizons,mountainous atmospheres," and it describes the fixing of "emblazoned zones and fiery poles, arranging,deepening, enchanting night." At one points in this poem, the speaker recalls asking, "Whose spirit isthis?...because we knew it was the spirit that we sought and knew that we should ask this often." Thispoem, which makes an ambiguous appeal to Ramon Fernandez, describes a figure who is "the singleartificer of the world" that she creates and who "sang beyond the genius of the sea." For 10 points, namethis Wallace Stevens poem titled for an island.
"The Idea of Order at Key West"
7

112813-)
This poem describes the "sluggish clod, which the rude swain turns with his share, and treads upon"and "Old Ocean's gray and melancholy waste." The speaker notes how "each one as before will chase hisfavorite phantom" after the central event. This poem advises that one "go forth, under the open sky, and listto Nature's teachings" when feeling "sick at heart." This poem instructs the addressee to act "like one whowraps the drapery of his couch about him" in contrast to "the quarry-slave at night, scourged to hisdungeon," and concludes by comparing death to lying down to pleasant dreams. For 10 points, name thispoem by William Cullen Bryant.
"Thanatopsis"
7

112816-)
At the end of this novel, one character wears a vial filled with morphine crystals around her neck. Inthis novel, a prostitute named Ethel extorts a hundred dollars a month from that character, who gets beatenup by the righteous pimp Mr. Edwards. Another character in this novel burns fifteen thousand dollars thathe intended to give his father, who lost all his family's money in a business venture involving the shippingof refrigerated vegetables. Earlier in this novel, Abra Bacon begins dating Aron, who enlists in World WarI after learning that his mother is the brothel owner Cathy Ames. The housekeeper Lee defines timshelwhile discussing the Cain and Abel story in this novel. For 10 points, name this John Steinbeck novel aboutthe Trask family.
East of Eden
7

112825-)
The protagonist of this novel lives in South End, which leads him to hire Mr. Seymour to build a housein New Land. One typist in this novel is the daughter of Jim Millon and is named Zerilla. It is revealed thatthis novel's title character was taught Old Testament verses by his parents in a series called the "Solid Menof Boston." In this novel, Persis disapproved of her husband's treatment of Rogers, who was his formerpartner in the paint business. In this novel, a love affair ends when Tom Corey reveals that he lovesPenelope more than Irene. For 10 points, name this William Dean Howells novel about the ascent of thetitle businessman.
The Rise of Silas Lapham
7

112838-)
One character in this novel compares the supermarket to the Tibetan afterlife because it contains"psychic data." In this novel, one of the protagonist's sons cries for seven days without explanation. Oneof this novel's characters, Orest Mercator, hopes to break the world record for longest time spent in a cageof poisonous snakes. The protagonist's wives are all connected to the intelligence community exceptBabette, who discusses sunsets at the end of this novel. In this novel, Willie Mink sells the drug Dylar,which alleviates the protagonist's fear of death. In this novel, the Airborne Toxic Event affects HitlerStudies Professor Jack Gladney. For 10 points, name this novel by Don DeLillo.
White Noise
7

112850-)
At the beginning of this story, the protagonist quits his job, prompting Mortimer to shout that theprotagonist was "Willing! Intelligent! Honest! Grateful!" Before going to New York, the protagonistmakes money running a series of laundries and becomes engaged to Irene Scheerer. The father of thisstory's protagonist owns the second-best grocery store at Black Bear Lake. At the end of this story, a mannamed Devlin reveals to the protagonist that the wife of Lud Simms is no longer a great beauty, shatteringthe protagonist's title illusions and causing him to repeat, "That thing is gone." For 10 points, name this F.Scott Fitzgerald short story about caddy Dexter Green's love for Judy Jones.
"Winter Dreams"
7

112867-)
In this novel, a rotting piece of cheese inside a safe leads one character to devise a method for getting revenge on a bank, and that character makes a bet with Richard Frost that an unhappy group of men will not turn their heads when a parade approaches. Another character seeks the world record for flagpole-skating, and Henri uses nutshells in his paintings while he is not busy building his boat. Gay goes to find parts to fix a Model T, only to be thrown in jail, and his friends adopt a pointer named Darling. Dora is forced to shut her harem down for two weeks during the Great Sardine Catch, and in another episode, the Western Biological lab is ruined after a party for Doc descends into chaos thanks to Mack's poor control. FTP, identify this novel which depicts the lives of the Palace Flophouse gang, Lee Chong, and the other inhabitants of the titular street in Monterey, a work by John Steinbeck. 
Cannery Row 
7

112877-)
Clarence Major wrote about Painted Turtle, a woman with one of these, who only joins up with Baldy after he trades his own. Albert Murray wrote about Luzana Cholly, a master of one of these, who appears in both The Spyglass Tree and a novel about a "Train Whistle" one. In Morrison's Song of Solomon, a character with this name joins the Seven Days and journeys with Milkman to Pilate's house, while Floyd Barton returns to Chicago in an August Wilson play about seven of them. One poet wrote about "A Farewell without" one of these, and in another of his poems he claims that one of these is the reason the title figure "does not play things as they are." FTP, name this musical instrument, a blue variety of which is held by a man in a poem by Wallace Stevens.
guitar 
7

112893-)
In this play, one of the protagonists often cuts his fingernails, but never, to the best of his knowledge, cuts his toenails. In Act II, that character's pants fall down when he tries to block another character's path with his belt, and shortly after, he finds himself in pitch darkness, hearing soft sea sounds. In Act I, the main characters are offered a performance of The Rape of the Sabine Women, or rather woman, or rather Alfred. Later, in order to prepare for a confrontation with a Dane, the two main characters play questions, but they eventually discover, on a boat en route to England, that they are going to die, and they vanish from the stage at the work's end. For 10 points, identify this play beginning with 89 coin flips, written by Tom Stoppard from the perspective of two characters of Hamlet.  
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead 
7

112904-)
Chapter one of this book mentions Boyd Beaver being the soloist in the Vivaldi Kazoo Concerto, as well as Remedios Varo's Bordando el Manto Terrestre. In this book, the protagonist's lawyer, Roseman, has been working on the rough draft of The Profession v. Perry Mason, A Not-so-hypothetical Indictment, and Mike Fallopian is writing a book on the history of private postal service in the U.S. This book also contains a detailed description of an imaginary Jacobean revenge play titled The Courier's Tragedy, which the protagonist watched with John Metzger, her co-executor of the estate of Pierce Inverarity. For 10 points, name this novel, which details Oedipa Maas' exploration of the history of the muted post horn symbol and the Trystero, a work by Thomas Pynchon.  
The Crying of Lot 49 
7

112922-)
One climactic action in this book is triggered by the death from appendicitis of AmedÃ©e Chevalier. The central character is aided by Barney Flinn and Signa, and takes in a hermit who lives in a hole on the side of a riverbed, Ivar. One character in this work goes to Mexico to try to forget someone he later embraces under a mulberry tree before leaving for law school; that character had earlier had his cat rescued from a telegraph pole by Carl. Frank kills his wife Marie Shabata and her lover Emil in a jealous rage, and the central character realizes her vulnerability and marries Carl Linstrum in, FTP, which novel about Alexandra Bergson written by Willa Cather?  
O Pioneers!
7

112925-)
One character in this work talks with the chatty Captain Turner, making him late to a meal and frustrating the unseen cook Bridget. The tardy character is the landlord of the also unseen Shaughnessy who has his pigs bathe in the lake of an oil magnate. Multiple characters, including the servant Cathleen, hide their drinking by mixing water with whiskey, and the central male characters are all drunk during the final scene where Baudelaire, Dowson and Swinburne are quoted. This drunkenness follows Dr. Hardy diagnosing Edmund with consumption while the other major conflict centers on Mary's abuse of morphine. FTP, identify this play centering on the Tyrone family, a mostly autobiographical work by Eugene O'Neill.  
Long Day's Journey Into Night
7

112933-)
In one essay, this writer remarks that "I never hear anybody say of a critic, 'He's all right, but he's no Saint-Beuve,'" while in another he analyzes "the most awful of Frost's smaller poems... Design." Those essays, "The Age of Criticism," and "To the Laodiceans," can be found in his critical volume Poetry and the Age, while his collection of "Essays and Fables," is entitled A Sad Heart at the Supermarket. This author put Mary McCarthy into his satirical academic novel Pictures From an Institution, and his less famous collections of poetry include The Woman at the Washington Zoo and The Lost World. However, he is best known for a short poem which is found in his collection Little Friend, Little Friend, and which begins, "From my mother's sleep I fell into the State." For ten points, identify this American poet best known for "The Death of the Ball Turret Gunner."
Randall Jarrell
7

112950-)
In one work by this author, one nobody is excited about meeting another nobody, and in another poem by this poet, the speaker writes from after-death that, in between heaves, she was distracted by a "blue, uncertain, stumbling buzz." Another poem claimed "those who ne'er succeed" count "success the sweetest," while this poet also described "A (*) carriage holding just ourselves/and immortality." Name this confessional poet of "I heard a fly buzz when I died," and "Because I could not stop for death," the "Belle of Amherst." 
Emily Dickinson 
2

112970-)
In this novel, Tom Loker gets shot by George Harris for standing in the way of a path to Canada. Cassy and Emmeline escape safely because of a man who formerly worked on the Kentucky farm owned by Arthur Shelby. The protagonist saves Augustine's young daughter Eva St. Clare from drowning, but the title character is eventually whipped to death anyways at the orders of his next (*) owner, Simon Legree. Name this abolitionist book by "the little lady who started the war", Harriet Beecher Stowe. 
Uncle Tom's Cabin 
2

112997-)
When this character shushes his colleagues, they decide that the name "Shhhhh!" is perfect for their invention. The music of Adrian Leverkuhn plays during a wedding at the Port Authority Bus Terminal, in which this man's son marries into the Maxon family. A chapter named for this character begins by saying that April was the best month for him, in an obvious parody of "The Waste Land." This man tries to explain a concept by stealing a bedsheet, ripping it, then redistributing the pieces. This character coats the entire supply of (*) Egyptian cotton in chocolate in the only failed venture of his M&amp;M; enterprises, a far cry from when he bought eggs in Sicily for one cent, sold them in Malta for four and a half, and then bought them again for seven cents. Although he schemes with the Germans to bomb his own men at Pianosa, they like him because he keeps them well fed. For 10 points, name this war profiteer and mess officer in Catch-22.
Milo Minderbinder [or Milo Minderbinder]
9

113011-)
The original manuscript of this collection ends with a poem describing creatures forming a "black / mass against all that white." A poem in this collection declares that "the woman in the ambulance / Whose red heart blooms through her coat" does not produce as much crimson as do the title objects. A poem in this collection consists of thirteen couplets leading up to the single line "Voicelessness. The snow has no voice," and concerns objects that, "in their sulphur loveliness," "lean tonight" in a "morgue between Paris and Rome." This book culminates in a mini-sequence about bees that ends on the poem "Wintering." Its title poem concerns a horse that flies, "Into the red / (*) Eye, the cauldron of morning." The fifth poem in this collection ends: "Out of the ash / I rise with my red hair / And I eat men like air." This collection's most famous poem concerns a man who "bit my pretty red heart in two," to whom the speaker says: "you bastard, I'm through." For 10 points, name this posthumously-published collection containing the poems "Lady Lazarus" and "Daddy," written by Sylvia Plath.
Ariel
9

113039-)
This author wrote a story in which a terminally-ill man develops a habit of shouting "CUNT!" with strong New England accent, so it comes out as "KANT!" In an essay, this author credited the children's book Johnny Tremain with sparking his interest in becoming a writer. The brooding family man Morse and the suffering artist Aldo Cummings suddenly snap out of their respective daydreams when they realize that two canoeing girls are in danger of careening down a cataract in this author's story "The Falls." His inaugural collection features a psychopathic Vietnam vet bodyguard who cuts the hands off a boy who steals candy in its title story, and ends with a novella about an underclass of Americans with (*) birth defects known as the Flawed, titled "Bounty." Janet loses her job as an actress playing a cavewoman at a historical reenactment theme park in the title story of this author's best-known collection. For 10 points, name this deadpan contemporary author of Tenth of December, CivilWarLand in Bad Decline, and Pastoralia.
George Saunders
9

113063-)
At one point, the protagonist of this work stands "doubting, dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before". Later, he asks a question about the "balm in Gilead" and demands the prophet demon get back to "night's Plutonian shore". His frustration with the creature on the (*) "pallid bust of Pallas" surfaces during his inquisitions about his lover, Lenore. Name this Edgar Allen Poe poem that begins "Once upon a midnight dreary" about a dark bird who torments with the word "Nevermore". 
"The Raven" 
2

113075-)
One work by this author sees the old man Behrman die of pneumonia after painting a leaf onto an ivy vine. This author of "The Last Leaf" and the collection The Four Million wrote a story in which Della Young buys a watch fob for her husband after selling her (*) hair to a wigmaker; her husband Jim had simultaneously sold his watch to buy her beautiful combs. Born William Sydney Porter, name this American author known for short stories, such as "The Ransom of Red Chief" and "The Gift of the Magi," that have surprising twist endings.
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter before mentioned] 
2

113094-)
In this novel, Daisy and Demi are the nicknames of Margaret and John Laurence, the twin children of the Brooke family. The central characters grow jealous of well-to-do friends such as Sallie Gardiner, Kate Vaughn, and Laurie Laurence even though they have their own (*) servant named Hannah. The main characters in this novel are the daughters of Marmee and named Amy, Beth, Meg, and Jo. Name this novel about some young ladies by Louisa May Alcott. 
Little Women 
2

113110-)
This character has business partners such as Henry Palmetto, who commits suicide by train, and a man who fixed the 1919 World Series and wears molars for cufflinks named Meyer Wolfsheim. The funeral of this protÃ©gÃ© of Dan Cody is interrupted by the tennis shoe-seeking Klipspringer and attended by a man known only as "Owl Eyes". He is (*) shot by George Wilson in his West Egg pool after he takes the blame for running over Myrtle Wilson to protect his beloved Daisy Buchanan. Name this Great title character of F. Scott Fitzgerald's most famous novel. 
Jay Gatsby [accept either or both underlined names; accept any underlined part of James "Jimmy" Gatz; accept The Great Gatsby] 
2

113118-)
In this novel, the main character's wife listens to the protagonist recite "Dover Beach," after he meets Clarisse McClellan, but she primarily wears a seashell radio and contemplates adding a fourth TV to the wall of her parlor. Captain Beatty's (*) mechanical hound pursues the protagonist, who joins a secret society of book-memorizers. Name this Ray Bradbury novel, in which Guy Montag is a fireman who burns books at the title temperature. 
Fahrenheit 451 
2

113127-)
This author wrote about Captain Middleton's wife being kidnapped by Ishmael Bush in The Prairie. This man is accused of committing 114 "Literary Offenses" in a work which sees Wah-ta-Wah and the scalper Tom Hutter kidnapped by the Huron tribe. In his most famous novel, Magua, angry with Colonel Munro, targets Munro's daughters, who are traveling with (*) Chingachgook. Name this author whose Leatherstocking Tales includes novels about Natty Bumppo such as The Last of the Mohicans. 
James Fenimore Cooper 
2

113136-)
He penned the lines "Nature's first green is gold/Her hardest hue to hold," and this poet read "The Gift Outright" at a Presidential inaugration. In one of his poems, a horse finds it odd that its rider would hesitate from his "promises to keep, and miles to go" before he sleeps, and in another, the narrator notes "good (*) fences make good neighbors." Name this poet of "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" and "Mending Wall," who described a sigh after taking a trip down a divergent path in "The Road Not Taken."
Robert Frost
2

113150-)
When the protagonist of this work checks in to the Edmont Hotel, he doesn't have sex with his prostitute, but pays her most of the money anyway. The protagonist writes depressed poetry on his brother Allie's baseball glove, before running around New York City in angst against the (*) "phonies." He describes his frustration with his former teacher, who touched his hair, in the book-long psychiatry session that frames this story. Mr. Antolini and Phoebe are significant in the life of the protagonist, Holden Caulfield. Name this novel by J.D. Salinger. 
The Catcher in the Rye 
2

113155-)
In one of this author's works, subtitled a "Story of Wall Street," the title character often "would prefer not to." This author's Piazza Tales includes that short story, Bartleby the Scrivener. In another work, Claggart is accidentally murdered and Captain Vere must hang the titular foretopman in Billy Budd, Sailor. His most famous work sees the Rachel rescue the only surviving crewmember of the (*) Pequod, while Starbuck, Queequeg, and Captain Ahab perish chasing the titular white whale. Identify this American author of Moby Dick. 
Herman Melville 
2

113165-)
This author's works include one in which Mr. and Mrs. Richards worry about a bag of gold, entitled The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg. This author described Jim Smiley's escapades with a "Celebrated Jumping Frog," and wrote about the adventures of "The Boss" Morgan among the Knights of the Round Table in A (*) Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court. Name this author, who famously wrote about a boy who escapes from "Pap" by rafting down the Mississippi with Jim in The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, the creator of Tom Sawyer. 
Mark Twain [or Samuel Langhorn Clemens] 
2

113186-)
The protagonist of this work notes his luck in eating tuna rather than sweet dolphin meat. The protagonist's friend fears the "Indians of Cleveland," though he is reminded to have faith in the great DiMaggio by the protagonist before he attempts to break an eighty-four day streak of failure. This work ends with (*) Manolin bringing coffee to the title character after he reaches Cuba with a giant marlin skeleton tied to his boat. Name this novella about the fisherman Santiago, written by Ernest Hemingway. 
The Old Man and the Sea 
2

113195-)
One episode in this work concerns the purchase of seven cent eggs that are resold at five cents, creating a one-and-a-half cent profit. In this novel, a computer program with a sense of humor promotes Major Major Major to the rank of Major. The titular condition notes that you'd have to be (*) crazy to fly bombing missions, so Yossarian can't claim to be insane and must keep flying. Set on the island of Pianosa during World War II, name this novel by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22
2

113199-)
In one of his stories, the oiler takes turns rowing with the correspondent to get the life boat back to shore. This author of "The Open Boat" wrote about Nellie corrupting the title sister of Jimmie into a New York prostitute. In another work, Jim Conklin serves as a Christ figure while Wilson argues with a man who earns the title (*) mark fleeing from a Civil War battle. Name this author of Maggie, A Girl of the Streets, who created Henry Fleming in The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane
2

113231-)
One of this author's works sees a scorpion bite Coyotito, the son of two pearl fishers, and in another novel, the knowledge that Cathy Ames was a prostitute drives her son, Aron Trask, to death. Besides many novels set in Salinas Valley, California, this author of The Pearl and Cannery Row wrote about how Muley Graves stays in Oklahoma while Jim Casey and (*) Rose of Sharon run from the dust bowl with the Joad family. Name this American author of Great Depression-era novels like East of Eden and The Grapes of Wrath.
John Steinbeck
2

113233-)
The confessional poet of The Dream Songs taught at this state's namesake university before jumping off the Washington Avenue Bridge; that man is John Berryman. This state's real town of Walnut Grove was one home, after the "Little House on the Prairie," of Laura Ingalls Wilder, and Carol Kennicott lives in this state's fictional town of Gopher Prairie in (*) Main Street by Sinclair Lewis. Name this US state, which also includes Carol Kennicott's birthcity, St. Paul.
Minnesota [accept John Berryman before "this state"; accept University of Minnesota before "Walnut Grove"] 
2

113265-)
The milkman, Howie Newsome, reappears in every morning scene in this work, and after a church choir practice, Mrs. Soames gossips about the drunkard who plays the church organ. Generally performed with minimal props or scenery, proud residents of a place with an equal death and birth rate sing "Blessed be the Tie that Binds" once every act. The (*) Stage Manager introduces this play set in Grover's Corners, New Hampshire. Featuring George Gibb and Emily Webb, name this play by Thornton Wilder. 
Our Town 
2

113275-)
Works by this author concern the homicidal Miss Grierson and the suicidal brother of Jason, Benjy, and Caddy. In addition to "A Rose for Emily" and Absalom, Absalom!, one of this author's novels contains the chapter "My mother is a fish," and describes the (*) Bundrens' journey to bury Addie in Jefferson, the seat of Yoknapatawpha [YAWK-nah-pah-TAW-fah] County. For 10 points, name this American author of The Sound and the Fury and As I Lay Dying.
William Faulkner
2

113285-)
This author of Tales of the Alhambra used pseudonyms like "Jonathan Oldstyle." One of his short stories concerns Abraham Van Brunt and Katrina Van Tassel. In another, a Dutch settler falls asleep in the Catskill Mountains. A long-dead Hessian pursues (*) Ichabod Crane in one of this author's works. For 10 points, name this author, whose collection The Sketchbook of Geoffrey Crayon includes "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."
Washington Irving
2

113297-)
This character witnesses a feud with the Shepherdsons while staying with the Grangerfords. He poses as his closest friend in Sally Phelps' home, and meets the dishonest duke and dauphin. He avoids being "sivilized" by the (*) Widow Douglas and escapes from his abusive father by floating down the Mississippi River with Jim, an escaped slave. For 10 points, name this character created by Mark Twain, the companion of Tom Sawyer.
Huckleberry Finn (accept either underlined name)
2

113318-)
Episodes of septuagenarian riverside sex punctuate this man's novel about a man who changes his name and leaves Chicago to work with Sponge Martin in New Orleans, where Bruce Dudley begins an affair with Ailine Grey. A parody of that novel centers on a prolific waitress-defiler who believes he is the new President of Mexico, Scripps O'Neill. He wrote about Lester Cochran, who has a heart attack before he can make amends with his daughter Mary in his story "Unlighted Lamps" This author of Many Marriages was mocked by Hemingway in The Torrents of Spring after penning the aforementioned Dark Laughter. For 10 points, name this author of Poor White who wrote about Kate Swift and Wing Biddlebaum in a sequence that includes "Hands" and "Godliness," Winesburg, Ohio.
Sherwood Anderson
7

113344-)
One of this man's poems is largely set at Mar Saba monastery and is named for a theology student who renews his faith by making a pilgrimage to Jerusalem. A poem named for him mentions "the calyx of death's bounty giving back a scattered chapter" and ends with a description of "this fabulous shadow [that] only the sea keeps." One of his novels ends with chapters titled "The Chase - First Day," "The Chase - Second Day" and "The Chase - Third Day." He spent several years working on the longest poem in American literature titled Clarel, and he saw, "the dice of drowned men's bones" according to a Hart Crane poem about his tomb. he wrote a novel that ends with its narrator being rescued by the Rachel after floating on Queequeg's coffin. For 10 points, name this author of Moby Dick.
Herman Melville
7

113358-)
A character from this drama plays cards for ten years with Serge Esmerldovich Upgobkin in the author's "coda" to this play titled Slavs!. In this work's epilogue, which takes place at Bethesda Fountain, a character discusses the creation of a healing spring in Jerusalem. The questions "Are we doomed?" and "Will the Past Release us?" are posed by Aleksii Antedilluvianovich Prelapsarianov at the beginning of its second part. Another character in this work, who is addicted to Valium, hallucinates that her imaginary friend Mr. Lies is taking her to Antarctica. In this drama's second section Perestroika, the ghost of Ethel Rosenberg visits Roy Cohn as he slowly dies of AIDS. For 10 points, name this "gay fantasia on national themes," written by Tony Kushner.
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes
7

113361-)
This author's A Little Book in C Major cites "democracy, hay fever, and any fat woman" as proof that God has a sense of humor. This writer argued that Puritanism infected the works of Mark Twain and William Dean Howells in an essay found in A Book of Prefaces. In his work "A Neglected Anniversary" he started a hoax that claimed the bathtub was popularized by Millard Fillmore. He coined the term "booboisie" [like "bourgeoisie"] to describe the stupid people of a class. This author defended the title tongue from its British counterpart in The American Language. With George Jean Nathan, he founded The American Mercury. The term "Monkey Trial" was coined by, for 10 points, what American humorist who was known as the "Sage of Baltimore?"
H. L. Mencken [accept Henry Louis Mencken]
7

113393-)
Billy Collins compared taking off this figure's clothes to "riding a swan into the night" in a poem that ends "reason is a plank." The letters of this writer, who regarded letter writing as "the joy of earth," were first compiled by Thomas Wentworth Higginson and Mabel Loomis Todd. This author imagined a bee that babbles in a stolid air and "Sweet Birds" that pipe in "gorant cadence" in a poem about "meek members of the Resurrection" that are "Safe in their Alabaster Chambers" Another poem by this author states "We passed the Fields of Gazing Grain, We passed the Setting Sun," and ends "I first surmised the Horses' Heads were toward eternity." That poem's opening clause is followed by "He kindly stopped for me." For 10 points, name this author of "I felt a Funeral, in my Brain" and "Because I could not stop for Death," a reclusive poet from Amherst.
Emily Dickinson
7

113410-)
A long poem by this author contains a conversation in which a woman says "I should like to be alone," and a man replies "why not be alone together?" This author offered a cheeky defense of the "plain American which cats and dogs can read" in a poem titled "England." This author wrote of "the white volcano with no weather side; lightning flashing at its base," in a poem inspired by a trip to Mount Rainier. This author transformed Hart Crane's "The Wine Menagerie" into unrecognizable free verse, and outright rejected his "At Melville's Tomb," as editor-in-chief of The (*) Dial. This author lists a "tireless wolf under a tree" and "the immovable critic twinkling his skin like a horse that feels a flea" as examples of things we do not admire because we do not understand them, in a poem that balks at the expectation that "literalists of the imagination" be asked to present "imaginary gardens with real toads in them." In that most famous poem of hers, she states "I, too, dislike it." For 10 points, name this Modernist poet of "An Octopus" and "Poetry."
Marianne Moore
9

113424-)
This author created the character Anthony Patch and wrote the short stories "Bernice Bobs Her Hair" and "The Diamond as Big as the Ritz." This author of The Beautiful and the Damned wrote about Dick Diver in Tender is the Night. Meyer Wolfsheim and (*) Jordan Baker appear in one novel by this author, in which Nick Carraway sees the title character longing for Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this American author of The Great Gatsby.
F(rancis) Scott (Key) Fitzgerald
2

113432-)
Doc Daneeka is a self-absorbed doctor in this novel, which sees Major de Coverley rent apartments for soldiers on leave. Nately loves an Italian whore, and Major Major Major is promoted to Major while still a new recruit. This novel's protagonist obsesses over (*) Snowden's death and observes the ultra-capitalist dealings of Milo Minderbinder in, for 10 points, what work by Joseph Heller about the company of Captain John Yossarian?
Catch-22
2

113446-)
This author argued against the Mexican-American War and suggested that, "That government is best which governs least." This author described a massive battle between black and red ants and wrote a chapter about the "Economy" of building a cabin while living (*) self-reliantly by the title pond on Ralph Waldo Emerson's property. For 10 points, identify this transcendentalist American author of Civil Disobedience and Walden.
Henry David Thoreau
2

113469-)
In this work, Aunt Alexandra lives at the Landing before moving in with the narrator, who she always calls Jean Louise. That narrator finds gum and pennies hidden in a tree. In this novel, Tom Robinson's rape trial causes (*) Bob Ewell to attack Jem and Scout, who are saved by Boo Radley. This work depicts race relations in Maycomb, Alabama, and concerns the lawyer Atticus Finch. For 10 points, name this work by Harper Lee.
To Kill a Mockingbird
2

113479-)
In one novel by this author, Buddy helps tell the story of the Glass family after his sister starts chanting the "Jesus prayer." In addition to Franny and Zooey, this author wrote a novel in which a young protagonist goes out with Sally Hayes, visits Mr. (*) Antolini, and tries to protect his sister, Phoebe, after being expelled from Pencey Prep. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
J(erome) D(avid) Salinger
2

113632-)
German soldiers and a dog named Princess capture the protagonist of this novel as he fleesthe Battle of the Bulge. Edgar Derby is executed for stealing a teapot in this novel, and PaulLazzaro commits murder to avenge the death of (*) Roland Weary. The protagonist travels toTralfamadore and becomes unstuck in time. For 10 point, "The Children's Crusade" subtitles thisKurt Vonnegut novel about Billy Pilgrim and the firebombing of Dresden.
Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death
2

113652-)
A 1999 memoir about this author, At Home in the World, met with much criticism, and that book's author, Joyce Maynard, was further reviled when she sold this author's letters at auction. Short stories by this author, such as "For Esme, with Love and Squalor" and "Just Before the War with the Eskimos" were collected along with a story in which Seymour shoots himself in a hotel room at the beach. This author of the collection Nine Stories is also known for creating Franny and Zooey and other members of the Glass family, FTP who was this reclusive author best known for depicting Holden Caulfield in Catcher in the Rye?
SALINGER
6

113658-)
One of these animals accompanied Robert Louis Stevenson on a two-week journey through the Cevennes Mountains in southern France. Another example is Benjamin, the only animal outside of the pigs who is able to read in Orwell's Animal Farm. In a famous picaresque work, the thief Gines de Pasamonte steals one of these creatures from a man who is hoping to be governor of the island Barataria. Titania is bewitched to fall in love with the character Bottom when Bottom's head has been transformed into that of this animal in A Midsummer Night's Dream. FTP Sancho Panza's mount Dapple is an example of what beast of burden into which Pinocchio was also briefly transformed?
DONKEY/ASS
6

113663-)
This author depicted two girls who jokingly refer to themselves as "Temple One" and "Temple Two" who see the genitals of a hermaphrodite at a fair's freak show in one story. Mrs. Cope's forest and fields are burned by three boys while her daughter Sally watches in another story. "A Temple of the Holy Ghost" and "A Circle in the Fire" were collected in a book titled for another story by this author in which a car crash caused by the cat Pitty Sing leads to the shooting deaths of the Grandmother and her family by an escaped convict called The Misfit. FTP what Southern Gothic author wrote stories like "Good Country People" and "A Good Man Is Hard to Find"?
O'CONNOR
6

113674-)
This author's most famous work attacks Rousseau's fictionalized ideal woman, Sophie, from his novel Emile. This author points out the illogic of Rousseau's claim that acquiring beauty and grace are a woman's chief duty, considering he also argues that those things fade over time, whereas education lasts forever. In this fashion she makes the case for co-education of girls and boys. Married to the radical author of Caleb Williams, she died soon after giving birth to her namesake daughter, who would go on to marry the poet behind "Ozymandias." FTP who was this female thinker, author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman and mother of Mary Shelley?
WOLLSTONECRAFT
6

113677-)
This author described dropping a poem on the plate of Vachel Lindsey while waiting on him in a restaurant in his autobiography The Big Sea. One poem by this author sees the speaker declare that he likes "a pipe for a Christmas present,/Or recordsÂ—Bessie, Bop, or Bach." That speaker of "Theme for English B" goes on to note that "being colored doesn't make [him] NOT like" things liked by people of other races. Another poem describes the "drowsy, syncopated tune" of the title music the speaker hears "a Negro play/Down on Lenox Avenue." FTP what anchor of the Harlem Renaissance wrote "The Weary Blues" and "The Negro Speaks of Rivers"?
HUGHES
6

113685-)
One work in this genre ends with the line, "Beauty will be convulsive or not at all" and consists of found photographs and commentary on other writers of this genre, like Paul Eluard, and is titled Nadja. This group of writers considered Lautremont's poetic line about the "chance meeting on a dissecting table of a sewing machine and an umbrella" to be a founding inspiration. Including poets like Robert Desnos and Louis Aragon , this group of writers created "The Exquisite Corpse," a game of automatic writing. Founded by Andre Breton, FTP what is this group of early 20th century writers, which also spawned a visual arts group including Salvador Dali?
SURREALISTS
6

113691-)
The Stetcher family is described in the first novel of a trilogy by William Carlos Williams titled for a mule of this color. A spider described as "dimpled, fat, and" this color is found on a heal-all flower in Robert Frost's poem "Design." An "airborne toxic event" forces Jack Gladney, a professor of Hitler Studies, to evacuate his home in a novel titled partly for this color. FTP this is what color describing "Noise" in the title of a novel by Don DeLillo and which also describes the title cetacean in a work by Herman Melville?
WHITE
6

113703-)
This novel's protagonist, against the wishes of siblings Oscar and Lou, resolves to not only keep the family farm but also to take out a second mortgage after a drought hits the area known as The Divide. That protagonist of this novel is moved by the kind words of the recluse Crazy Ivar, whom she hires to care for horses on her farm. This novel's protagonist's brothers drive away her childhood love interest, Carl Linstrum, but years later, after the murders of Emil Sinclair and Marie Shabata, he returns so she can marry him. FTP this describes the Nebraska life of Alexandra Bergson in what novel by Willa Cather with a title taken from a Walt Whitman poem?
O PIONEERS!
6

113712-)
This animal is the namesake of a paradox proposed by Carl Hempel, and it is also the namesake of a Sam Houston biography. The Hatter asks the riddle "Why is [this animal] like a writing desk." Odin owns two of these animals named Huginn and Muninn in Norse myth. God commanded these animals to bring Elijah "bread and flesh," and another one was the first bird sent forth after the flood. FTP, name this titular black bird of an Edgar Allan Poe poem that repeats the word "Nevermore."
RAVEN
6

113713-)
A reunion of players of this sport with their terminally ill high school coach is depicted in Jason Miller's 1973 Pulitzer-winning play That Championship Season. One fictional player of this sport dies from a heart attack while playing it in Florida while running away from his wife Janice, mirroring the opening of the first novel in which he appeared, where he played this sport in Brewer, Pennsylvania, while estranged from his wife. A memoir partly named for this sport describes the author's playing it for a Catholic school in New York while experimenting with heroin and the counterculture in the mid-1960s. FTP what is this sport played by John Updike's character "Rabbit" as well as by diarist Jim Carroll?
BASKETBALL
6

113722-)
This fictional character gets drunk for "only the second time in [his] life" at a party with the redhead Catherine and the dislikeable couple the McKees in New York City with his cousin's husband and his mistress. After a luxurious party thrown by his neighbor, this character sees Owl Eyes drunkenly abandon his car in a muddy ditch, and soon after he takes his cousin's advice to begin dating a woman who cheated to win her first golf tournament. Initially awed by his neighbor's wealth, this character finds that neighbor's body floating in his pool after being shot by George Wilson. FTP who is this cousin of Daisy Buchanan, the narrator of The Great Gatsby?
NICK CARRAWAY
6

113723-)
This fictional character gets drunk for "only the second time in [his] life" at a party with the redhead Catherine and the dislikeable couple the McKees in New York City with his cousin's husband and his mistress. After a luxurious party thrown by his neighbor, this character sees Owl Eyes drunkenly abandon his car in a muddy ditch, and soon after he takes his cousin's advice to begin dating a woman who cheated to win her first golf tournament. Initially awed by his neighbor's wealth, this character finds that neighbor's body floating in his pool after being shot by George Wilson. FTP who is this cousin of Daisy Buchanan, the narrator of The Great Gatsby?
Nick Carraway (accept either name)
6

113734-)
In one work by this author, an Indian student goes to London to study and publishes a short-story collection. That character, Willie, later spends eighteen years in East Africa before traveling to Berlin in this author's novel Half a Life. Another work by this author sees an East African official, Bobby, go on a road trip with his colleague's wife Linda amidst increasing violence as the President takes power. This author of In a Free State also wrote a novel in which Salim starts a business and is arrested for trading in ivory, and another in which the title character is born with six fingers and cursed to "eat up his mother and father"; that figure repeatedly tries to acquire the title location after being part of the decaying Tulsi household. FTP, name this Trinidadian author of A Bend in the River and A House for Mr. Biswas
NAIPAUL
6

113739-)
The title character of this work shoots two monkeys in an attempt to protect two women before meeting six deposed kings at an inn in Venice along with Martin. The title character is also sentenced to be killed in an "auto-da-fÃ©" following the Lisbon earthquake. This novel's protagonist begins his journey at the castle of the Baron of Thunder-ten-tronckh and declares at its end that "we must cultivate our garden." One character in this work is a parody of Gottfried Leibniz who believes humans that live in the best of all possible worlds. FTP, name this novel which sees the title character travels to South America and back with the philosopher Pangloss, written by Voltaire.
CANDIDE
6

113743-)
. This novel's protagonist is fired from a paint factory after Lucius Brockway tricks him into destroying a boiler. This novel's protagonist listens to Louis Armstrong's "Black and Blue" on his phonograph and claims to steal electricity from the Monopolated Light &amp; Power Company by burning 1,369 light bulbs simultaneously. That occurs after this novel's protagonist joins a group which supposedly seeks to promote the rights of the racially oppressed, the Brotherhood, serving as its representative in Harlem. That position brings the protagonist into conflict with the black nationalist Ras the Exhorter in this novel. FTP, name this Ralph Ellison novel about racism obscuring individual identity
INVISIBLE MAN
6

113744-)
This figure is awakened by soldiers firing machine guns while spending time in a hospital over Thanksgiving while on leave. During his time in the hospital, this figure sleeps with Nurse Duckett, who refuses to marry him because she fears he is unstable. This character quotes a poem by François Villon, replacing one of the words with the similar name of a character who died in the attack over Bologna. Both the death of that figure, Snowden, as well as the successful escape of this figure’s roommate, Orr, to Sweden inspires this figure to also escape the military. FTP, name this B-25 bombardier, the protagonist of Joseph Heller’s satirical war novel Catch-22.
Captain Joseph Yossarian
6

113746-)
. This figure is awakened by soldiers firing machine guns while spending time in a hospital over Thanksgiving while on leave. During his time in the hospital, this figure sleeps with Nurse Duckett, who refuses to marry him because she fears he is unstable. This character quotes a poem by FranÃ§ois Villon, replacing one of the words with the similar name of a character who died in the attack over Bologna. Both the death of that figure, Snowden, as well as the successful escape of this figure's roommate, Orr, to Sweden inspires this figure to also escape the military. FTP, name this B-25 bombardier, the protagonist of Joseph Heller's satirical war novel Catch-22
YOSSARIAN
6

113752-)
[missing]
[missing]
6

113763-)
In one story by this author, Harry reflects on everything he has failed to write about whiledying of an infected leg in Africa. This man's short story "The Killers" features Nick Adams,and is collected in The (*) Snows of Kilimanjaro. This man wrote about a bullfight witnessed byJake Barnes and Lady Brett Ashley, and about the struggles of the fisherman Santiago. For 10points, name this author of The Sun Also Rises and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest Miller Hemingway
2

113775-)
One character in this work steals a fountain pen after meeting with a past employer. Thatfootball player, son of the title character is distressed to find his father with "The Woman" inBoston. The title character's wife, (*) Linda, repeatedly says, "Attention must be paid," to her twosons, Happy and Biff, referring to her husband's failing mental health. For 10 points, name thisArthur Miller play that ends with Willy Loman's suicide.
 Death of a Salesman
2

113785-)
After "Dr. Device" is used to end the Formic War in this novel, colonists begin a religionbased on The Hive Queen. A character who named himself "Locke" in online discussionsbecomes Hegemon of Earth in this novel. Hyrum (*) Graff and Mazer Rackham teach thisnovel's protagonist, who clings to his friendships with Bean and his sister, Valentine. For 10 points,name this Orson Scott Card novel about Andrew Wiggin.
Ender's Game
2

113806-)
In one work by this author, the narrator observes skull-shaped markings on the backof a scarab that bit William Legrand. In one of this author's short stories, a shroudedfigure infiltrates Prince Prospero's masquerade, and another story by this man sees(*) Madeline rise from her tomb to attack her brother, Roderick. "The Gold-Bug" and "TheMasque of the Red Death" are by, for 10 points, what American author of "The Fall of theHouse of Usher?"
Edgar Allan Poe
2

113817-)
One work by this author inspired the opening of John Milton's poem "Lycidas," and contains the "Song of Silenus" [sy-LEE-nuhs] in its sixth section. Another work by this author contains a section entitled "The Praises of Italy," and includes a scene in which a swarm of bees comes out of the bulls and heifers that Aristaeus [air-i-STEE-uhs] sacrificed. This author of the Eclogues [EK-lawgz] and Georgics wrote another work in Latin in which the son of Anchises becomes Dido's lover and kills Turnus in combat. For 10 points, name this Roman poet of The Aeneid.
VERGIL
6

113818-)
This concept's most famous formulation was introduced six years after its formulator reviewed Jean-Marie Guyau's Non-religion of the Future and was used to describe the conflict between mechanical and organic solidarity.  It was also used by Robert Merton in developing strain theory, and most famously was used to describe a situation that arises when man's desires and disappointments are both infinite in a book where it is a cause of the title phenomenon, along with egoism, altruism, and fatalism.  For 10 points, name this concept, formulated in the introduction to The Division of Labor in Society and discussed in reference to suicide by Emile Durkheim.
ANOMIE
6

113821-)
In one story by this author, Sister Cecilia brings in three Mexican musicians to a hospital to play for the wounded Cayetano, while the writer Frazer listens to the third title entity. "The Gambler, the Nun, and the Radio" came after this author's story in which a character only called "the American" notes a symbolic cloud passing over a fertile valley near the Ebro, beyond which lies hills which may represent his female companion's impending baby bump. Another story by this author sees the "older waiter" describe everything in the world as "nada." "Hills Like White Elephants" and "A Clean, Well Lighted Place" are stories by, FTP, what American who also wrote the novel The Old Man and the Sea?
HEMINGWAY
6

113827-)
The narrator of the second part of this work claims to be presenting an edited version of a document translated by a Morisco from an Arabic text written by Cide Hamete Benengeli. In that section of this work, the title character comments on his own story as written by Benengeli. The title character of this work travels to El Toboso to visit his beloved, on the way engaging in a duel with the a man wearing mail so shiny he is dubbed the "Knight of the Mirrors," who turns out to be Sampson Carrasco in disguise. The title figure of this work never finds Dulcinea in, FTP, what work about the squire Sancho Panza and the crazy title knight, a work by Miguel de Cervantes?
DON QUIXOTE
6

113830-)
One author with this last name published her own poetry in a three-volume collection titled Some Imagist Poets, a work which is said to have driven Ezra Pound from Imagism to the creation of Vorticism. Another poet with this last name confessed, "My mind's not right" in the poem "Skunk Hour," and in another poem described Augustus St. Gaudens' "shaking Civil War relief" of Colonel Robert Shaw. That author of "For the Union Dead" shared his last name with and was distantly related to the Fireside Poet who wrote A Fable for Critics. FTP what last name was shared by the poets Amy, Robert, and James Russell, a name which their family gave to a Massachusetts textile town?
LOWELL
6

113834-)
[missing]
[missing]
6

113838-)
This novel's heroine turns out to be the long lost daughter of Sister Gudule. That daughter marries the poet Pierre Gringoire in this novel to prevent his execution and is later almost rescued by the Truands. Instead, that figure is hung at this novel's end by the Captain of the King's Archers who earlier tried to seduce her; that captain is Phoebus. This novel's protagonist meets its heroine after he is offered water while tied down and later kills his adopted father Claude Frollo in revenge for her death. For 10 points, name this novel which sees the gypsy Esmeralda loved by the title deformed bell ringer, written by Victor Hugo.
hunchback of notre dame
6

113842-)
This novel gave rise to a namesake genre of books, one of which by Philip Cozans is named after a figure from this novel who has an aunt named Ophelia from Vermont and who teaches a girl named Topsy about God. This novel sees George Harris shoot Tom Loker, then take him to be healed by Quakers at the encouragement of his wife Eliza. This novel's protagonist saves the aforementioned niece of Ophelia from drowning on a riverboat. That causes Augustine, the grandfather of that girl, Eva St. Clare, to employ this novel's protagonist, though he later falls under the supervision of Simon Legree, who has him beaten to death. For 10 points, name this novel about slavery written by Harriet Beecher Stowe
uncle toms cabin
6

113848-)
. This author's time spent in Mexico in the 1930s provided the material for his travelogue The Lawless Roads. Catholicism informs many of his works, including the story of Major Scobie who, while stationed in Africa in World War II, has an affair with Helen and eventually commits suicide, accepting that this will lead to damnation. One work by this author is set in Mexico and centers on the nameless Whisky Priest. The Heart of the Matter and The End of the Affair are novels by, FTP, what British novelist who also wrote Our Man in Havana and The Power and the Glory
greene
6

113853-)
This author's final novel was compiled by Michael Pietsch and excerpts published from it include "The Compliance Branch" and "Wiggle Room." In addition to that novel about the pain of boredom which describes a group if IRS agents in Peoria, The Pale King, this author wrote a novel which includes figures like the Wheelchair Assassins, a Quebecois separatist movement, as well as Don Gately, the head of the redundantly named Ennet House Drug and Alcohol Recovery House. That novel by this author also sees Avril Incandenza have an affair with her brother Charles Tavis and preside over her children at the Enfield Tennis Academy. For 10 points, name this author of Infinite Jest.
wallace
6

113859-)
This author is parodied as Mafia Winsome, writer of terrible novels expounding her "Theory of Heroic Love," in Thomas Pynchon's V. In one of this author's novels, Dominique Francon is forced into sex, an action justified in the novel by suggesting it's a depiction of architect Howard Roark's powerful will. In the author's best-selling novel, railroad vice-president Dagny Taggart embodies the author's theory of rational egoism, which she called "Objectivism." FTP, who is this plodding author of The Fountainhead, as well as the novel in which John Galt "stops the motor of the world," Atlas Shrugged?
rand
6

113864-)
The voice of a polar spirit says of this poem's protagonist, "The man hath penance done,/And penance more will do." The evil deed causing the penance is partly expiated after the speaker retracts his earlier curse of the "slimy things" he sees in the ocean. Previously he had witnessed a game of dice between Death and Life-in-Death, with the former taking all his fellow sailors, while he is won by the latter and  doomed to continually tell his tale, as he does to the wedding guest. After suffering the torment of "Water, water, every where,/Nor any drop to drink," FTP the aged killer of an albatross spins his tale in what long poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge?
rime of the ancient mariner
6

113867-)
This novel was the basis of a Suzan-Lori Parks play in which an abortionist kills The First Lady. Three character in this novel form an "electric chain" shortly before a meteor appears. This novel begins with a section entitled "The Custom-House," and its protagonist is invited by the witch Mistress Hibbins to go into the forest at night. In this novel, Roger Chillingworth determines that Arthur Dimmesdale is the father of Pearl, his wife's daughter. For 10 points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne novel about the adulterous Hester Prynne, who wears the titular symbol
scarlet letter
6

113877-)
[missing]
[missing]
6

113882-)
This author is parodied as Mafia Winsome, writer of terrible novels expounding her "Theory of Heroic Love," in Thomas Pynchon's V. In one of this author's novels, Dominique Francon is forced into sex, an action justified in the novel by suggesting it's a depiction of architect Howard Roark's powerful will. In the author's best-selling novel, railroad vice-president Dagny Taggart embodies the author's theory of rational egoism, which she called "Objectivism." FTP, who is this plodding author of The Fountainhead, as well as the novel in which John Galt "stops the motor of the world," Atlas Shrugged?
rand
6

113890-)
This novel was the basis of a Suzan-Lori Parks play in which an abortionist kills The First Lady. Three character in this novel form an "electric chain" shortly before a meteor appears. This novel begins with a section entitled "The Custom-House," and its protagonist is invited by the witch Mistress Hibbins to go into the forest at night. In this novel, Roger Chillingworth determines that Arthur Dimmesdale is the father of Pearl, his wife's daughter. For 10 points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne novel about the adulterous Hester Prynne, who wears the titular symbol
scarlet letter
6

113899-)
[missing]
[missing]
6

113900-)
[missing]
[missing]
6

113901-)
[missing]
[missing]
6

113906-)
. This author of the novel The Last Words of Dutch Schultz co-wrote an early, unpublished novel titled And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks with a famous novelist friend. His real-life trip to South America to find a rare, psychoactive drug was chronicled in The Yage Letters and partly fictionalized in his novella Queer, which followed a novel about the New York heroin milieu, Junkie. His best-known novel describes the violence and orgies of Interzone, whose residents include Clem Snide and Dr. Benway. FTP who is this Beat Generation author of Naked Lunch?
burroughs
6

113914-)
This novel sees the character Lise, who was previously engaged to a man who has chosen to become a monk, smash her finger in a door as a futile punishment for her meanness. Lise's one-time fiancÃ©e is a follower of the teachings of Father Zosima, and he also interrupts his brother's nightmare about a visitation by the devil, after which Ivan becomes hysterical. Earlier in this novel Ivan had told Alyosha a parable in which Christ is arrested in Seville and told the Catholic Church no longer needs him. "The Grand Inquisitor" is part of, FTP, what novel in which Smerdyakov kills the patriarch Fyodor, a novel by Fyodor Dostoevsky?
BROTHERS KARAMAZOV
6

113919-)
This poem's second section features the couplet, "I think we are in rat's alley/Where the dead men lost their bones." This precedes repetitions of the bar-closing call, "HURRY UP PLEASE IT'S TIME." This poem's brief fourth section introduces the drowned man "who was once as tall and handsome as you," Phlebas the Phoenician. That section is titled "Death by Water," while the last section ends with a repetition of the Sanskrit word "Shantih." That section is "What the Thunder Said." Beginning "April is the cruelest month," FTP what is this long poem by T.S. Eliot?
WASTELAND
6

113923-)
Some critics read this poem's last line as a reference to Thucydides' description of the Battle of Epipolae when soldiers fighting in the dark couldn't identify the enemy. Previously the speaker notes the "tremulous cadence slow" of the waves in the title location, which bring in the "eternal note of sadness." The speaker then complains that the world "hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light," so he and his love should "be/True to one another." FTP what is this poem set where "ignorant armies clash by night," the best-known poem by Matthew Arnold?
dover beach
6

113929-)
The little cup that this literary character had used to collect water dripping from a stalactite before dying is later described as a tourist curiosity. Previously he had masqueraded as a Spanish deaf-mute when he confronted the title character in a haunted house, this coming after he killed Dr. Robinson and framed Muff Potter for the murder. Wishing to torture and disfigure the Widow Douglas since her husband had him horsewhipped for vagrancy is, FTP, what racist caricature who dies in McDougal's cave with a box of gold coins, a violent Native American antagonist in The Adventures of Tom Sawyer?
injun joe
6

113934-)
. Sarah Bakewell's current biography of this writer is titled How to Live and uses his writings, including "Of Cannibals," as a way of defining modern life. He opined that "to die of old age is rare and extraordinary" in the 16th century in "Of Age," and he described the need to "die purposely" in "Of Vanity." Those works switch back and forth between Latin and French, as does perhaps his most famous piece, in which he defends the author of Natural Theology. FTP who is this Frenchman who retired from public life to write "An Apology for Raymond Sebond" and other works for which he coined the term "Essays"?
montaigne
6

113940-)
This position is held by Jaffrey Pycheon, who dies in the same chair as his ancestor Colonel Pyncheon, in Hawthorne's The House of the Seven Gables. Early in The Pioneers, Natty Bumppo argues with Marmaduke Temple, a man who holds this title, over who killed a buck. The pale and hairless giant Holden, a pederast who kills numerous people in Cormac McCarthy's Blood Meridian, also bears this honorific title. What is this title, FTP, which would be also apply to John Taylor, in front of whom Atticus Finch argued for Tom Robinson's innocence in To Kill a Mockingbird?
judge
6

113952-)
. This author wrote one sea novel focusing on the encounters between the American sailors Dick Fid and Scipio Africanus and the title pirate and another sea novel about Long Tom Coffin and John Paul Jones in the American Revolution. Those novels, The Red Rover and The Pilot, were written between entries in a better-known series of novels by this author which began with a novel set in New York state in which the hunter Oliver Edwards befriends the protagonist and his friend Chingachgook, who dies at that novel's end. The Pioneers is the first novel in a five-part series by, FTP, what author who wrote about Natty Bumppo in The Deerslayer and The Last of the Mohicans?
cooper
6

113962-)
This author's work Il Filocolo includes thirteen questions of love that are discussed in the presence of Fiammetta. This author's work Il Filostrato was the main source of Chaucer's Troilus and Criseyde. This author's most famous work includes several stories in which Calandrino is pranked, and one in which the Marquess of Saluzzo tests the fidelity of Griselda, who is very patient. That work by this author is set during the Black Plague and includes one hundred stories. For 10 points, name this fourteenth century Italian author of The Decameron
BOCCACIO
6

113964-)
This word titles a 2009 Paul Auster novel about Adam Walker, for whom love can be described by the title condition. Marco Polo and Genghis Khan discuss places like Octavia, Zirma, Leonia, and Procopia in a novel by Italo Calvino in which those are cities described as having this property. Tod Clifton leaves The Brotherhood and sells Sambo dolls on the street in a novel in which the unnamed protagonist describes his progress from being dismissed from an all-Black college to working for Liberty Paints to living in a basement in which he steals electricity and strives for the title condition in a novel by Ralph Ellison. FTP what is this condition also displayed by the character Griffin in a novel by H.G. Wells?
INVISIBILITY
6

113971-)
James Thomson wrote a long 17th-century allegorical poem titled for one of these locations "of Indolence." Signor Montoni imprisons Emily St. Aubert in one of these called Udolpho in a novel by Ann Radcliffe. The sickly Conrad is mysteriously crushed by a gigantic helmet in a novel considered to have begun the Gothic genre. That work by Horace Walpole is titled for one of these "of Otranto." FTP the narrator only called K. never gains access to what type of title building in a novel by Franz Kafka?
CASTLE
6

113979-)
The southern part of this state is described as containing the "dreadful sundry of this world" in a poem by Wallace Stevens about this state's "Venereal Soil." A novel set in this state follows the hunt for the bear "Slewfoot" and the protagonist Jody Baxter's adoption of Flag, the title creature. The cook, the oiler, the captain, and the correspondent come ashore at a lighthouse in this state in Stephen Crane's story "The Open Boat." Home to Payne's Prairie, the setting of Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings' novel The Yearling, FTP what is this US state which also provides the setting for the novels Jonah's Gourd Vine and Their Eyes Were Watching God by Zora Neale Hurston?
FLORIDA
6

113982-)
This title character first appears in his namesake novel when he hurls himself on his mother's grave at her burial. On a train to the artists' commune at Duplyanka, he meets life-long friend Misha, who is with him when he first meets his love interest, whom he encounters after her mother's attempted suicide. This title character marries Tanya, but is more deeply in love with Lara, whom he had met while stationed as a medical officer in Yuryatin. FTP who is this titular physician created by Boris Pasternak?
DR ZHIVAGO
6

113992-)
Calixta agrees to marry Bobinôt after Clarisse removes Alcée from the title ball in a short story by this author. In another story, Armand is shocked by letters from his mother after his wife walks into the bayou with their child. (*) Adèle Ratignolle is contrasted with a woman who has an affair with Robert Lebrun and drowns herself in the sea; that woman is Edna Pontellier. For 10 points, name this author of “Désirée’s Baby” and The Awakening.
Katherine O'Flaherty "Kate" Chopin (accept At the "Cadian Ball before "this author" is read)
2

114014-)
This novel's protagonist declares himself the Black Avenger of the Spanish Main, causinghis sweetheart to mourn for the andiron [and-"iron"] knob he had used to propose to her. Inthis novel, Joe Harper witnesses his own (*) funeral with two of his friends, and Muff Potterbelieves he is guilty of a murder committed by Injun Joe. For 10 points, name this novel by MarkTwain about the title friend of Huckleberry Finn.
The Adventures of Tom Sawyer
2

114027-)
This poet described a discussion between Warren and Mary about the return of Silas in apoem collected in North of Boston. Another work by this man declares "something there isthat doesn't love a wall." This author of "The (*) Death of the Hired Man" and "The Mending-Wall"described a decision "that has made all the difference" in another poem which begins, "Two roadsdiverged in a yellow wood." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Road Not Taken."
Robert Frost
2

114042-)
This novel's protagonist searches for water for Jimmie Rogers and fights with Wilson over aflag. One man in this novel mistakes a traveling companion for Tom Jamison; anotherstumbles upon a dead soldier in a clearing after fleeing from a battle. That man travels with a(*) Tattered Soldier and witnesses the death of his friend, Jim Conklin. For 10 points, name thisnovel about Civil War soldier Henry Fleming, written by Stephen Crane.
The Red Badge of Courage
2

114052-)
In a work by this author, a woman watches twenty-eight young men carelessly bathetogether. This man asks "If the body were not the Soul, what is the Soul?" in one work anddescribes a community going to war in (*) "Drum-Taps." This author memorialized AbrahamLincoln with "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" and wrote, "I celebrate myself and singmyself." For 10 points, name this American poet of Leaves of Grass.
Walt(er) Whitman
2

114057-)
An essay from this movement says that farmers cannot buy the most valuable part of land,beauty. In addition to Nature, an essay from this movement prefers intuition to authority, TheOver-Soul. Works from this movement describe an author's refusal to pay (*) taxes in an actof Civil Disobedience, and two years spent by Walden Pond. For 10 points, name this Americanliterary movement that included Ralph Waldo Emerson and Henry David Thoreau.
Transcendentalism (accept word forms, such as the Transcendentalists)
2

114065-)
Works by this author concern the love of Richard and Muriel and one about the prostitutedaughter of Chris Christopherson. In another of his plays, Edmund has tuberculosis andMary fails to hide a morphine addiction. (*) Ah, Wilderness! and Anna Christie are by this man,who wrote about Theodore Hickman visiting Harry Hope's bar after killing his wife. For 10 points,name this American playwright of Long Day's Journey into Night and The Iceman Cometh.
 Eugene (Gladstone) O'Neill
2

114086-)
In one work this poet "reposes" under a "dark sycamore," and in another this poet wrotethat "A poet could not but be gay, / In such a jocund company." One of this poet's speakerscomments that "five years have passed" since he last visited the title Welsh (*) monstary, andanother sees "a host of golden daffodils." With Coleridge, he published Lyrical Ballads. For 10points, name this poet of "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud" and "Tintern Abbey."
William Wordsworth
2

114098-)
This work's narrator asks the reader to "regard with discreet scrutiny some inconsequentialobject in the other direction" while the main characters embrace. This work notes that theQueen of (*) Sheba would be jealous of the main character's most prized possession, which shesells at Madame Sofronie's shop on Christmas Eve. Della Young sells her hair to afford a watchchain for her husband in, for 10 points, what O. Henry short story?
The Gift of the Magi
2

114104-)
In this novel, the corrupt businessman Phil Connor rapes Ona, who dies in childbirth; later,Ona's first child, Antanas, drowns in a puddle of mud in a busy street. This novel ends withthe Lithuanian immigrant Jurgis (*) Rudkis's prospects improving through socialism, but thelasting effect of this novel was its impact on the Chicago meatpacking industry. For 10 points, namethis work of muckraking literature by Upton Sinclair.
The Jungle
2

114120-)
A character in this novel is sent off to a library to learn the "Ps and Qs" from the "alphabet of common sense." In this novel's closing sentence, the protagonist sits with her needlework again, "for life, as it were." Ruth and Augustus Goetz adapted this novel into the Broadway play The Heiress. The protagonist of this novel wears a gaudy red dress with gold fringe to the engagement party of her friend Marian Almond. The main couple in this novel break off their engagement after the woman returns from a year long grand tour of Europe with her father. In this novel, the spinstress Lavinia Penniman dispenses unwanted matrimonial advice to, and essentially adopts as a son, the dashing suitor Morris Townsend. For 10 points, name this Henry James novel about the courtship of Catherine Sloper, the daughter of physician Austin Sloper, set in a namesake Manhattan neighborhood.
Washington Square
7

114143-)
A poem by this author includes the line "I shall laugh the worst laugh I ever laughed" and ends with a man saying "I'll follow you and bring you back by force." Another poem by this author features the image of a "small sailing cloud" hitting the moon and defines "home" as "something you somehow haven't to deserve" and "the place where...they have to take you in." He imagined his "long two-pointed ladder" reaching "toward heaven" in a poem about picking apples. A short poem by this author states "My little horse must think it queer, to stop without a farmhouse near" ends with the repeated line "and miles to go before I sleep." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "Home Burial" and "The Death of the Hired Man," whose short poems include "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."
Robert Frost
7

114151-)
In one story by this writer, the advertisement "Girl, unstable, height 152 centimeters, seeks husband" is placed in the newspaper after a doctor concludes that marriage will cure the girl in question. In addition to "The Treatment of Bibi Haldar," this author wrote a story in which Mrs. Croft repeatedly expresses her excitement over the presence of an American flag on the moon. In another story by her, Rohin explains that the title word means "loving someone you don't know." Mr. Kapasi, who gives tours to Mr. and Mrs. Das and saves Bobby from attacking monkeys, is the title figure of a collection by this author in which all of the aforementioned stories appear. For 10 points, "The 3rd and Final Continent" and "Sexy" appear in Interpreter of Maladies, a collection by what Indian-American writer?
Jhumpa Lahiri
7

114163-)
A character created by this author becomes a necrophile when he takes possession of a woman's body on Frog Mountain and becomes a serial killer after he burns his cabin down and starts to live in caves. The protagonist of another novel by this author cauterizes a gunshot wound by heating a pistol barrel and travels with his friend Lacey Rawlins while looking for work in Coahuila. This author wrote another novel that ends with its unnamed protagonist being brutally murdered in an outhouse during a meteor shower; characters in that book include scalpers led by John Glanton. This man wrote about Lester Ballard in Child of God and created the character of John Grady Cole in the first novel of his Border Trilogy, titled All the Pretty Horses. For 10 points, name this author of Blood Meridian.
Cormac McCarthy
7

114195-)
The protagonist of this novel uses the phrases "The Big Man" and "Slicker" to distinguish between various kinds of worldly people. In another chapter, the protagonist leaves a party where he has a vision of the devil in a drunken delirium and sees the face of a friend who had died in a car crash. At the end of this novel, its protagonist cries "I know myself, but that is all." The protagonist of this novel has his first kiss with Isabella and falls in love with Eleanor Savage, who nearly dies when she rides a horse off a cliff. The protagonist becomes an alcoholic after being dumped by Rosalind Connage, but he does befriend the poet Thomas Parke D'Invilliers while at Princeton. For 10 points, name this novel about Amory Blaine, the first novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
This Side of Paradise
7

114210-)
This poem's title figure is seen at "the plashy brink of weedy lake, or marge of river wide" and "where the rocking billows rise and sink on the chafed ocean side." "The abyss of heaven" swallowed up the form of this work's addressee, who is guided by God "from zone to zone" through the "boundless sky." Its speaker notes "soon that toil shall end, soon shalt thou find a summer home, and rest" while discussing the title figure, who, is weary since "all day thy wings have fann'd at that far height." The question "Far, through their rosy depths, dost thou pursue Thy solitary way?" appears in, for 10 points, what poem by William Cullen Bryant that is addressed to a bird?
"To a Waterfowl"
7

114232-)
One character in this play declares that "Man is by instinct a lover, a hunter, a fighter", only to be met by the argument that Christian adults want "Superior things! Things of the mind and the spirit!" A character observes that "nowadays the world is lit by lightning" near the conclusion of this play, which opens with a character comparing himself to a stage musician that turns back time. That character ends this play by asking his sister to blow out the candles. A character in this play is nicknamed "Blue Roses" by a man who appears to court her. That man is welcomed as a "gentleman-caller" and breaks a figurine of a unicorn belonging to Amanda. For 10 points, identify this play that ends with Tom Wingfield abandoning his family, a work of Tennessee Williams.
The Glass Menagerie
7

114239-)
This man is accompanied by Trevor Ray Hart on a trip aboard the Indian Pacific railway that is related in a book whose third section opens with Allan Sherwin offering this man all his urine for a journey across the Outback. Another of this man's books opens with a shopping expedition guided by Dave Mengle and contains a passage in which his worries about an encroaching bear are mocked by his companion, the pseudonymous Stephen Katz. A tour of a rectory in Norfolk inspires a series of historical digressions in his At Home: A History of Private Life. This author of Down Under wrote about hiking the Appalachian Trail in A Walk in the Woods. For 10 points, name this humorist and travel writer who wrote about Great Britain in Notes from a Small Island and penned A Short History of Nearly Everything.
Bill Bryson [or William McGuire Bryson]
7

114256-)
Toomis assigns the protagonist of this novel to work in Banjo Crossing, and after having a second child with Cleo Bentham, he starts sleeping in a separate bedroom from her. A graduate of Terwilliger college, the protagonist of this novel is inspired at a YMCA meeting, and the protagonist is blackmailed at the end of this novel because of his affair with Hettie Dowler. One character loses his sight in one eye after being beaten by an Albuquerque mob after changing the content of his messages to refer to a "Universal Spirit." Along with Frank Shallard, one character in this novel dies holding a wooden cross in the face of a fire, Sharon Falcon, and like Lulu Baynes, she has an affair with the protagonist. For ten points, identify this novel about the titular evangelist, which was written by Sinclair Lewis.
Elmer Gantry
7

114279-)
One character in this work has a dream that a wind-up penguin waddles around the house, except no one had wound it up. This occurs after the passing of an ad that says, "See Rock City" soon before another character recalls a conversation with one who calls herself a "faithless slut." Later on, the line "There is no God, and we are his prophets" is spoken by a man who claims his name is Ely, and he is eventually left behind prior to the discovery of a broken down train. In the aftermath of the 1:17 AM catastrophe prior to the novel's opening, the main characters eventually reach the shore, and, three days after the father dies, his son is found by "one of the good guys" and his family. The pair had walked along the title path in post-apocalyptic nuclear winter in, FTP, which 2007 novel by Cormac McCarthy?
The Road
7

114293-)
A parody of this poem by Mark Defoe that begins "Reason with them. Speak Softly. Hide Your Stick." appears in the Brand-X Anthology of Poetry. In On Extended Wings, Helen Vendler calls this poem's author a "sausage-maker" since he is construed by a double vision in constructing it. This poem describes "the bawds of euphony [that] would cry out sharply" in its tenth stanza, while its final stanza begins "It was evening all afternoon. it was snowing and it was going to snow." This poem asks the thin men of Haddam "Why do you imagine golden birds?" It opens by noting "Among twenty snowy mountains, the only moving thing was the eye of the" title animal. For 10 points, name this poem by Wallace Stevens that suggests numerous approaches of viewing a certain animal.
"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"
7

114327-)
This poem's speaker claims that "my mind's not right" after he sees a series of vehicles "hull-to-hull, where the graveyard shelves on the town." Another scene in this poem depicts how a "red fox stain covers Blue Hill," and the narrator notes that "His nine-knot yawl was auctioned off to lobstermen" when "we've lost our summer millionaire." The speaker of this poem later notes that "nobody's here" save for a group that "search / in the moonlight for a bite to eat" as hears a car radio bleat "Love, O Careless Love." An animal that "drops her ostrich tail" and "jabs her wedge-head in a cup of sour cream" titles, for 10 points, what poem about the turmoil of Robert Lowell's art and poetry, symbolized by the conduct of the an animal that "will not scare?"
"Skunk Hour"
7

114328-)
A character in this novel is accused of impregnating the promiscuous Sibyl Frey, whose accusations are being orchestrated by Sam MacMurfee. Another character in this novel, who is nicknamed the Scholarly Attorney, leaves his wife after discovering her affair with a man who accepted a bribe from American Electric Power; that wife later marries characters nicknamed the Tycoon, the Count, and the Young Executive. An encounter by this novel's protagonist with a hitchhiker in New Mexico causes him to formulate the theory of the "Great Twitch." Anne Stanton's affair with a certain man causes her brother Adam to shoot him in this novel, which follows Jack Burden. For 10 points, name this novel about Louisiana politician Willie Stark, which was written by Robert Penn Warren.
All the King's Men
7

114347-)
In one play by this author, a character wonders about unmixing pudding and is later instructed to write a proof of Fermat's Last Theorem. In another of his plays, a character states that he wants live his life on a boat after declaring boats are safe areas in the game of tag. In that play, one of the title characters stabs The Player with a retractable knife before all The Tragedians start clapping, and earlier, he performed an uncut version of The Rape of the Sabine Women. A play by this author titled for a Nicholas Poussin painting is set at Sidley Park and  features Septimus Hodge tutoring Thomasina Coverly. Another play by this author opens with its title characters flipping a coin that lands on heads repeatedly. For 10 points, name this author of Arcadia and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.
Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]
7

114368-)
For a time, this character works for paraplegic whom he deems the "first superior man." At the beginning of the novel in which he appears, he quotes Heraclitus's thought that "a man's character is his fate." After suffering a fractured skull from falling off a horse, this character meets Stella, who he runs off with. In another episode, this character purchases an Eagle named Caligula in Texarkana in order to help a woman with a plan to hunt iguanas. During a stint with the merchant marine, this character works on the ill-fated Sam McManus, and is stranded on a lifeboat with an insane man intent on going to the Canary Islands. He grows up with his mentally impaired brother Georgie in Chicago. For 10 points, name this picaresque character created by Saul Bellow.
Augie March [accept either]
7

114372-)
In this novel, a mechanic claims a dog leash is evidence of his wife's cheating. This novel's narrator discusses tennis shoes over the phone with Klipspringer and sees his cousin sob over a pile of (*) shirts. George shoots a resident of West Egg in this work, whose protagonist claims to have run over Tom's lover with a car to throw suspicion off Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this novel, narrated by Nick Carraway and written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Great Gatsby
2

114390-)
This author wrote about the smuggler Harry Morgan in To Have and Have Not. "The American" pressures Jig into getting an abortion in this man's short story "Hills Like White Elephants." His collection In Our Time includes many short stories about (*) Nick Adams, and a novella by this man sees Santiago struggle with a giant marlin. For 10 points, identify this American author of A Farewell to Arms and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest (Miller) Hemingway
2

114408-)
One work by this author compares insults in "The Thirteens," and begins with the section "Where Love is a Scream of Anguish." In one work by this author, the Rock commands, "face your distant destiny." This poet describes a tune that is "heard on a distant hill" in one poem, in which the title figure sings of (*) Freedom. For 10 points, name this American poet of "On the Pulse of Morning" and "I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings."
Maya Angelou (accept Marguerite Ann Johnson)
2

114410-)
In this work, Gus and Wes give their superior a check-up and are forced to tell him he's dead. Morphine syringes are removed from a plane by a man who sells chocolate-covered cotton as candy in this novel, leaving (*) Snowden to die without sedatives. World War II helps M&amp;M Enterprises to flourish under Milo Minderbinder, and Yossarian finally escapes to Sweden to avoid honorable discharge. For 10 points, name this novel by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22
2

114442-)
One of this author's protagonists used to work at a Dead Letter office, but starves to death in prison because he "would prefer not to" eat. This author wrote a novel in which Captain Vere is forced to execute the killer of John Claggart and a short story about (*) "Bartleby the Scrivener." Queequeg is among the crew of the Pequod lost in Captain Ahab's hunt for a white whale in a work by, for 10 points, what author of Billy Budd and Moby Dick?
Herman Melville
2

114464-)
A 1969 book claims that the words "even if," "since," "it may be," "if," and "or" in this poem serve to make all of its nouns indistinguishable from one another. The middle stanza of this poem includes the image of "a summer sound / Repeated in a summer without end / And sound alone." A character in this poem interrupts the "meaningless plungings," "theatrical distances, bronze shadows heaped / On high horizons," and the "mountainous atmospheres" of the landscape by making "the sky acutest at its vanishing." The speaker of this poem observes how the "glassy (*) lights" in town "mastered the nightÂ… fixing emblazoned zones and fiery poles, arranging, deepening, enchanting night." The last stanza of this poem invokes the "maker's rage" at the words "of ourselves and of our origins, in ghostlier demarcations, keener sounds." The speaker of this poem asks Ramon Fernandez if he remembers what happened after "she sang beyond the genius of the sea." For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poem set on an island south of Florida.
"The Idea of Order at Key West"
9

114466-)
A woman with this surname has a habit of mumbling out all but the first syllable of medical words such as "hysterectomy" and "testicles." Another character with this surname forms a poem out of the most frequent words to appear in Keats's poetry, after befriending the programmer Griza. The novel in which they first appear ends with a letter advising two men from this family to "Never make love with pants on" and "Trust in the Lord." A woman from this family finances the creation of "The Only Floating Gift Shoppe in New England" from the (*) wreckage of her husband's ferry, the SS Topaze. The fishing village of St. Botolphs is home to this family, headed financially by the imperious Aunt Honora. This family's patriarch Leander sires the autobiographical bisexual Coverly and his mischievous brother Moses. For 10 points, name this family that appears in novels titled for their Scandal and Chronicle, by John Cheever.
Wapshot 
9

114483-)
Before becoming Minister to Spain, this man published a set of Tales of the Alhambra. The Kaatskills are haunted by Henry Hudson's crew, who are seen playing ninepins in one of this author's stories written as (*) "Geoffrey Crayon." In another of his tales, Brom Bones marries Katrina van Tassel after Ichabod Crane meets the Headless Horseman. For 10 points, name this author of "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."
Washington Irving
2

114506-)
A woman who marries into this family demolishes her husband's religious faith by pointing out that the gargoyles of his church look like wives mocking their husbands. A flustered member of this family drops her sketchbook into a lake at the sight of her crush. The feminist teacher Winifred Inger marries into this family after ending her lesbian affair with her student, another member of this family. The lover of a woman from this family dies of hypothermia high in the Alps after attempting to strangle her for spending time with the German sculptor Loerke. While in recovery from miscarrying Anton (*) Skrebensky's child, a woman with this surname sees the title sign of a 1915 novel in the sky. Anna Lensky marries William, a member of this family, in a novel whose sequel focuses on the simmering homosexual tensions between Rupert Birkin and Gerald Crich, both of whom are dating women with this surname. For 10 points, give this surname of sisters Gudrun and Ursula, who star in D.H. Lawrence's The Rainbow and Women in Love
Brangwen [accept Anna Brangwen; accept Tom Brangwen; accept Ursula Brangwen; accept Gudrun Brangwen]
9

114547-)
A woman in this poem "gives with such supple confusions / That the giving famishes the craving." This poem popularized a term for Cold War-era intelligence practice of spreading misinformation with its image of a "a wilderness of mirrors." The opening stanza of this poem mentions that "the goat coughs at night in the field overhead" the speaker's house, which is where "the jew squats on the window sill." In this poem, Christ comes as a tiger to the fictional foreign personages Mr. Silvero, Hakagawa, Madame de Tornquist, and Fraulein von Kulp. Katherine Anne Porter took the title "Flowering Judas" from this poem, whose speaker has lost his (*) passion, "sight, smell, hearing, taste and touch." Prior to Ezra Pound's intervention, the preface to The Waste Land was going to be this poem, which asks "After such knowledge, what forgiveness?" and ends: "Tenants of the house, thoughts of a dry brain in a dry season." For 10 points, name this poem written from the perspective of an "old man in a dry month," by T.S. Eliot
: "Gerontion"
9

114566-)
As one of these beings approaches, a character racks his brain for a single word that might sum up his entire past week, getting his answer when another man whispers the word "there." In their first appearance, it is noted that these beings "slept but did not sleep, lived but did not live." Several men turn rats, cats, and chickens loose, then take bets on which of the animals one of them will go after first. At one point, the novel includes an excerpt of a newscast in which a helicopter follows one of these beings around. The protagonist of the novel tries to confuse one of them by dousing his valise in (*) whiskey. These beings possess a proboscis that extends a steel needle which it uses to inject procaine and morphine. Captain Beatty scoffs at the protagonist of the novel for observing that one of them does not like him, because it is just a series of programs and functions. After escaping from one of these beings, Guy Montag finds the exiled Book People. For 10 points, name these canine-shaped machines that aid the firemen in Fahrenheit 451.
Mechanical Hound
9

114573-)
As he walks by a gutter, the protagonist of this story sees a scrap of newspaper advertising pills for HEARTBURN, rendered in all caps. A voice in this story promises to "tell you a better story than 'The Monkey's Paw,' or 'La Grande Breteche,'" about a flower becoming a seed. The protagonist of this story reads a passage beginning "Now I plunge my pen against the page and scribble toward a purpose unperceived" out loud from a book as a test for eye strain. Its protagonist gradually loses his ability to hear the footsteps of the (*) postman from several houses away. This story begins during a geography lesson, in which the girl sitting in front of the protagonist, named either Astrid or Deirdre depending on the version, describes the equator as the earth wearing a belt. In the middle of a house call paid by a physician, the protagonist of this story runs upstairs to his bedroom, and, in a climactic moment, yells "Mother! Mother! Go away! I hate you!" For 10 points, name this horror story about Paul's inward descent into a world of wintry precipitation, written by Conrad Aiken.
: "Silent Snow, Secret Snow"
9

114596-)
In one novel by this author, Westervelt condemns Zenobia's actions, earning the anger of Miles Coverdale. Judge Jaffrey frames Clifford for murder in a novel by this man, in which Holgrave lodges with Hepzibah Pyncheon. Chillingworth befriends the father of (*) Pearl in a work by this author of The Blithedale Romance and The House of the Seven Gables. For 10 points, name this man, who wrote about Hester Prynne's disgrace in The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
2

114618-)
In one section of this work, a boy watches mockingbirds by the Paumanok; in another, this work's author describes a "flood-tide below me." This collection reads, "the ship has weather'd every rack, the prize we sought is won," and includes the poems (*) "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking" and "O Captain! My Captain," a poem about Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points, "Song of Myself" is a part of what poetry collection, written by Walt Whitman?
Leaves of Grass
2

114626-)
In this novel, Isaac loses his sight shortly after the Night of the Broken Trophies. A character who doesn't light his cigarettes uses his Wish to bring him and the protagonist to Amsterdam, where they meet author (*) Peter Van Houten. Shailene Woodley will play this novel's protagonist in a 2014 movie adaptation. For 10 points, name this 2012 novel about cancer patients Augustus Waters and Hazel Grace Lancaster, written by John Green.
The Fault in Our Stars
2

114632-)
This novel's protagonist sees Mr. Cunningham staking out the jail and asks him to tell his son Walter "hey." One character in this novel gives a girl a blanket while Miss Maudie's house is burning and scares (*) Dill Harris and Jem away. Boo Radley rescues the narrator from Mr. Ewell after her father, Atticus, defends Tom Robinson in a trial. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Scout Finch and written by Harper Lee.
To Kill A Mockingbird
2

114645-)
This work's narrator commands his guests to "tear up the planks" when they fail to notice the crime scene around them. The narrator claims that his nervous "disease" has sharpened his senses, and he visits his sleeping victim for a (*) week before smothering him with his bed. A sound like a watch in cotton drives the narrator to tell three policemen that he has killed and dismembered his vulture-eyed landlord in, for 10 points, this short story by Poe.
The Tell-Tale Heart
2

114664-)
This author noted that "it's always ourselves we find in the sea" in "maggie and milly and molly and may." World War I inspired his novel The Enormous Room, and one of his poems includes the parenthetical line (*) "(with up so floating many bells down)." For 10 points, name this American poet of "anyone lived in a pretty how town," who is known for using unconventional punctuation and capitalization.
E(dward) E(stlin) Cummings
2

114677-)
The narrator of this story begins its last section by stating, of the main character, that "This story is not his biography." After his fiancÃ©e retires to bed with a splitting headache, the protagonist of this story gawks at the dancers at the University Club. In the third section of this story, the nostalgic piano music that the protagonist listens to over a moonlit lake gets drowned out by the sudden roar of an approaching motorboat. A drunkard and philanderer named Lud Simms marries the protagonist's former lover in this story, a fact disclosed to him by (*) Devlin from Detroit. Its protagonist, the son of the owner of the second-best grocery store in Black Bear, impulsively decides to quit his job as a golf caddy at the start of this story, which is sometimes considered an unofficial first draft of its author's The Great Gatsby. For 10 points, name this story in which Judy Jones fades from the title seasonal reveries of Dexter Green, written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
"Winter Dreams
9

114695-)
One character in this work robs her father and runs away on a ship with Mercy Lewis. In one scene of this play, Ezekiel Cheever finds a doll which was a gift from Mary Warren, and Giles Corey dies asking for (*) "more weight." Ruth and Betty fall into a stupor that is blamed on Tituba, and Abigail Williams accuses John Proctor's wife, Elizabeth, of being a witch. Communism is represented by the Salem Witch Trials in, for 10 points, this play by Arthur Miller.
The Crucible
2

114712-)
A geriatric alcoholic publisher named Samuel Riba celebrates this holiday in a 2010 novel by Enrique Vila-Matas. In 2006, official festivities on this holiday were canceled due to the funeral of Charles Haughey. A Roman temple to Isis in the town of Szombathely, Hungary has been appropriated to serve as the site of festivities on this holiday, because the town is the birthplace of Virag Rudolf. In 1956, Ted Hughes and Sylvia Plath got married on this holiday. This holiday is in part a celebration of a walk its originator undertook with his future wife (*) Nora Barnacle. Participants in this holiday often stop for gorgonzola sandwiches at Davy Byrne's pub, but they probably don't pee in gardens or masturbate on the beach. In 2012, Laura Baxter kicked the celebration of this holiday up a notch when she delivered, for two and a half hours, Molly's entire soliloquy. For 10 points, name this holiday which takes place annually on June 16, in which people worldwide and in Dublin in particular retrace the steps of the protagonist of Ulysses by James Joyce
Bloomsday [or June 16 before it is read]
9

114729-)
This man has animalistic sex in a field of "pansies, and violets, and asphodel, and hyacinth," before falling into "grosser sleep bred of unkindly fumes, with conscious dreams." This man rejects an offer of suicide, saying that it "will not exempt us from the pain we are by doom to pay." This character infers that other planets than Earth also orbit the Sun, but his conversation partner declares celestial motion a pointless thing to talk about and changes the subject. This character misinterprets the vision of men and women dancing, playing games, and courting, and is horrified to witness one man (*) kill another during sacrifices, after being taken to a tall place where he can see an entire hemisphere at once. Raphael tells this man about the War in Heaven, whereas Michael shows him future events, such as the construction of the Tower of Babel and the crucifixion of Jesus, before escorting him with a flaming sword out of the Garden of Eden. For 10 points, name this character from Paradise Lost, the husband of Eve.
Adam
9

114761-)
This author included a soliloquy about the "Fearful key, which locks behind me the prisonhouse of life" in a play in which a character picks up a guitar and sings a dialogue between Brutus and Caesar. Taking advantage of a superstition, one of this author's title characters freely paces the corridors of a castle in the mask and habit of a monk. The protagonist of another play by this author refuses to harbor the murderer Duke John Parricida and personally ferries a fugitive across a stormy lake. The antagonist of that play by him commands everyone to bow before a (*) cap he places on a pole.  This author wrote a play in which the title character seals his own fate by rejecting the Princess de Eboli, because he is in love with his father's wife Elizabeth of Valois, as well as one in which Amalia's murder further drives a wedge between the brothers Franz and Karl von Moor. In his best-known play, a man foils Gessler by shooting an apple off his son's head. For 10 points, name this author of historical plays such as Don Carlos, The Robbers, and William Tell.
Friedrich Schiller [or Johann Christoph Friedrich von Schiller]
9

114769-)
As it is about to be destroyed, this object interrupts the conical facade of a doorway with its "square squat shape... like a cubistic bug." In its last appearance, sparks rain on this object in such a way that they cause a chain reaction, making it appear as if the last person to touch it is "enclosed in a thin nimbus of fire." In a section possibly narrated from inside this object, a character remembers thinking "Now you are aware of me" as she whipped misbehaving children with relish. A numbered list specifies that this object adjusts for the stress caused by animal magnetism, so its designer "made it on the (*) bevel." This object nearly gets lost during a catastrophic river fording during which several mules drown and a man re-breaks his previously injured leg. The Gillespie barn gets torched as part of Darl's plan to incinerate this object, which Cash had used his carpentry skills to construct. This object is unloaded in Jefferson and its contents buried. For 10 points, name this object in As I Lay Dying, which transports the remains of the deceased matriarch Addie Bundren.
Addie's coffin in As I Lay Dying [or Addie Bundren's coffin; accept just coffin after "As I Lay Dying" is read]
9

114772-)
This author wrote about the capture of Humphrey van Weyden in The Sea-Wolf, and in another of his novels, a lynx kills One-Eye. One of this author's title characters is claimed by Gray Beaver and later kills (*) Lip-lip. Another of this man's protagonists becomes a "Ghost Dog" after John Thornton's death. Those characters are the son of the half-wolf, Kiche, and a dog named Buck. For 10 points, name this author of White Fang and The Call of the Wild.
John Griffith "Jack" London
2

114774-)
In one of this man's works, Peter gets in a "fight" with Jerry, who stabs himself while sitting on a Central Park bench. This author of The Sandbox and Zoo Story wrote a play in which a host suggests the games "Get the Guest" and (*) "Hump the Hostess" at an absurd dinner party attended by Nick and Honey. For 10 points, name this playwright, who wrote about the bickering couple, George and Martha, in Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee
2

114805-)
A contemporaneous parody of this poem, titled "The Counter-Jumper," was published in Vanity Fair. Paul Ebenkamp and Robert Hass included a lexicon of every word that appears in this poem in a 2010 anthology that they co-edited. In this poem, the "ambulanza slowly passing trailing its red drip" arrives at the site of a "fan-shaped explosion." The speaker of this poem says "Continue your annotations, continue your questionings" to conclude a section in which requests a breather by yelling (*) "Enough! Enough! Enough!" This poem's speaker says, "you splash in the water there, yet stay stock still in your room," to a woman who joins several men and becomes the "twenty-ninth bather." The speaker of this poem realizes that "now it seems to me the beautiful uncut hair of graves" in pondering a child's inquiry "What is the grass?" This poem's speaker asks "Do I contradict myself?," admits "Very well then I contradict myself," and explains "(I am large, I contain multitudes.)" For 10 points, name this long poem that begins "I celebrate myself, and sing myself," and takes up most of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass.
"Song of Myself"
9

114823-)
In one of this author's plays, the young man, who has been doing calisthenics near the title object, reveals his identity as the Angel of Death to the grandmother. In another play, the Grandmother wins twenty-five thousand dollars using the pseudonym of "Uncle Henry," while one character initiates a tickle fight, pulls a knife, and impales himself on it in another play. This author is best known for a play in which one character enters with snapdragons and announces "flores para los muertos" in the beginning of the third act, which concludes with the game "Bringing Up Baby," witnessed by Nick and Honey and played by George and Martha. For 10 points, identify this author of The Sandbox, The American Dream, The Zoo Story, and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?. 
Edward Albee 
7

114849-)
Mordaunt Shairp was a collaborator on the screenplay for The Dark Angel with this author, whose second play, Days to Come, was a failure on Broadway. In another of this author's works, an attempt at blackmail fails when Count Teck de Brancovis is killed by Kurt Muller. This author of the memoir Pentimento and The Watch on the Rhine also wrote a work in which Lily Mortar teaches elocution and Rosalie Wells is blackmailed into becoming part of a plot, after which Martha Dobie commits suicide after she and Karen Wright are accused of lesbianism. She also wrote a work in which Ben and Regina cheat Horace Giddens out of $80,000 before Horace dies of a heart attack. For 10 points, name this American playwright who created the Hubbard family and Mary Tilford in her plays The Little Foxes and The Children's Hour. 
Lillian Hellman
7

114877-)
In one of this author's stories, a wounded Mexican named Cayetano recovers along with the writer Mr. Frazer and a devout nun in a hospital. This author of "The Gambler, the Nun, and the Radio" also wrote a work about a boy confused by the difference between Celsius and Farenheit thinks he is going to die and in another, two waiters wait for an old man to leave a cafÃ©. Wilson asks Margot, "Why didn't you poison him" in another story after she shoots the title character, and this author also wrote about the writer, Harry, who dies of an infected wound after dreaming of an airplane trip to the title mountain. For 10 points name this author of "A Day's Wait", "A Clean Well Lighted Place", "The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber", and "The Snows of Kilimanjaro".
Ernest Miller Hemingway
7

114884-)
This author's "In Death Cannot Reach What Is Most Near" and "Birdbrain" were included in an Illuminated version of this man's work ,with illustrations by Eric Drooker.  His words were printed on a background of railroad images in Iron Horse, which he would later place under the heading of a collection which begins with a quotation from Democratic Vistas, The Fall Of America: Poems of These States.  Another work of this man's, notably transcribed from an Uher tape recorder while driving across the country, calls "all Powers of imagination to my side in this auto to make Prophecy" and invokes figures like Shambu Bharti Baba, Jesus Christ, and Hare Krishna to declare an end to the Vietnam War, while another well-known poem of his claims he "saw you, Walt Whitman... poking among the meats in the refrigerator".  FTP, name this author of "Wichita Vortex Sutra" and "A Supermarket in California" who "saw the best minds of [his] generation destroyed by madness" in Howl.
Allen Ginsberg 
9

114908-)
In one work by this author, Harker initially believes Hugh Morgan was killed by a mountain lion, but later comes to attribute it to supernatural powers, while another work sees Palmer disappear while investigating the title locale. In addition to "The Damned Thing" and "At Old Man Eckert's," this author of "Killed at Resaca" also wrote a story about a chess-playing automaton in "Moxon's Master" and one about Carter Druse, who leaves his family to fight in the Civil War and ends up having to shoot his father in "The Horseman in the Sky." The inspiration of Carlos Fuentes's novel The Old Gringo, this is, FTP, which author who wrote about Peyton Farquhar in "An Occurrence at Owl-Creek Bridge" and also wrote the Devil's Dictionary?  
Ambrose Bierce 
7

114945-)
The title character's bedroom contains a statue of Christ, pried off a crucifix and nailed to the wall. On his desk is a pile of correspondence "all alike, stamped from the dough of suffering with a heart-shaped cookie knife." Steve Garvey and Jud Hume stay up all night debating God's existence, and the title character's friends get drunk at Delehanty's with a madman who thinks he's Havelock Ellis. The hero has three love affairs, with Lucy, Mary, and Betty, but he keeps thinking of his noseless correspondent during sex. In the final chapter, "[The Title Character] Has a Religious Experience," the eponymous hero is murdered by his editor Shrike. For ten points, identify this tragic novella (masquerading as a satire), about the long martyrdom of the title advice columnist, by Nathanael West.
Miss Lonelyhearts 
7

114956-)
A notable scene involving this character features his mother smashing a mirror to contact him, and he sings the song "We're Not Gonna Take It" at the end of the film in which he appears. This character goes to visit a woman who sings "Acid Queen", and is also left alone with his Cousin Kevin, who bullies him. This character was molested by his "Wicked Uncle Ernie," and his birth is recounted in the song "Fantastic Journey" and "It's a Boy," while shortly after his birth, his father kills his mother's lover.  This character eventually marries Sally Simpson, and sings the song "I'm Free", as well as "See Me, Feel Me." For 10 points, name the "deaf, dumb, and blind" pinball-playing subject of a Who rock opera and film adaptation.  
Tommy Walker 
7

114970-)
This work is dedicated to George Lyttelton, who was partially the inspiration for one of its major characters. The lone childhood friend of this work's title character is the gameskeeper Black George, who later with the help of Mrs. Honour aids the character in exchanging love letters with a woman. The most prominent female character in this novel is subject to an attempted rape by Lord Fellamar, and Arabella Hunt proposes marriage to the title character of this novel by letter. The protagonist of this work helps a woman claiming to be the widow of Captain Waters, and also has an affair with Molly Seagram. Mr. Fitzpatrick is the traveling companion of the title character of this work, and that title character and his rival are tutored by Roger Thwackum. That rival, Bilfil, vies for the title character's love interest Sophia Western. For ten points, name this novel whose title character is raised by Squire Allworthy, a work by Henry Fielding. 
The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling 
7

114986-)
. When this character first appears, he is described as having hair that "was just beginning to gray" and wearing "silver-rimmed spectacles that gave him a scholarly look". One of his first declarations is that children make him nervous. He later declares, while putting on one of his victims' shirt, that "Crime don't matter. You can do one thing or you can do another, kill a man or take a tire off his car, because sooner or later you're going to forget what it was you done and just be punished for it". When one character reaches out and touches him on the shoulder, he springs back and shoots her three times in the chest. And when his companion Bobbie Lee remarks that that character was "a talker", he responds "She would have been a good womanÂ….if it had been somebody to there to shoot her every minute of her life." FTP, this is what serial killer that murders a family that has a car accident on their way to Florida in Flannery O'Connor's A Good Man is Hard to Find?
The Misfit 
9

115013-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist receives fellatio while sitting on a street-side bench and attending a party held by Mayor Lindsay, and in another, Libby Herz goes against her Catholic faith to get an abortion and Martha Reganhart is the divorced lover of Gabe Wallach.  The narrator attends the trial of John Ivan Demjanjuk and antagonizes his doppelganger Moishe Pipik in another novel, and Gil Gamesh is banished for injuring an umpire in a novel relating the decline of the Patriot Baseball League narrated by Smitty.  In addition to Letting Go, Operation Shylock, and The Great American Novel, this author wrote of a character who draws inspiration from E. I. Lonoff and causes controversy with his fiction which angers Leopold Wapter and another character who abandons The Monkey in Italy and discusses his childhood addiction to masturbation.  FTP, name this Jewish novelist of Zuckerman Bound and Portnoy's Complaint.
Philip Roth
9

115029-)
At the beginning of this work, all of its characters are asleep except one, who later describes himself as one who is "waiting impatiently for the end". One character in this work plans to buy a farm in New Jersey with Pearl, while another character repeats the lines "Ve vill trink vine beneath the villow trees!" and "The days grow hot, O Babylon!" In addition to Chuck Morello and Hugo Kalmar, other characters in this work include a pair of Boer War veterans who trade friendly insults, Cecil Lewis and Piet Wetjoen. The most recent arrival at this play's central location sold out his mother, a member of the Syndicalist-Anarchist movement; that character, Don Parritt, jumps from a balcony to his death. This play's primary action begins when a traveling salesman, who later confesses to murdering his wife Evelyn, arrives and attempts to convince the other characters to abandon their "pipe dreams". For 10 points, identify this play set in Harry Hope's saloon which features Larry Slade and Theodore "Hickey" Hickman, a 1940 work of Eugene O'Neill.
The Iceman Cometh
9

115057-)
The main character in this work remembers punching a British gunner over an Armenian girl before he left for Anatolia, and he recalls a hotel owner in Triberg who killed himself over inflation. The wife of the main character states "I've been destroyed two or three times already. You wouldn't want to destroy me again, would you?" referencing her son's death in an airplane crash and her widowing, to which her husband says "I'd like to destroy you a few times in bed." In this story, the protagonist remembers seeing Tristan Tzara when he lived in Paris, and reminisces about being asked to kill his bombing officer Williamson. This story includes the character Compton, who takes the protagonist in a plane originally headed to Arusha in a dream, and Molo is repeatedly asked to serve the central character whiskey. Opening by discussing a frozen leopard, it ends with Helen discovering the dead body of the gangrene-ridden author Harry. For 10 points, name this Ernest Hemingway story where Harry imagines he is flying towards an African mountain.
The Snows of Kilimanjaro
9

115077-)
This man discussed the relevance of neurons of the title creature being boiled alive in an essay about a lobster and its role in pleasing humans. One of this author's stories begins with a man making a witticism and a girl laughing, both trying to be liked. Another story is about a sadomasochistic Young Republican Lawyer who is happy with Gimlet and Tit but not Boltpin, before we learn he likes to burn people with a cigarette lighter. In addition to writing "A Radically Condensed History of Postindustrial Life" and "The Girl with Curious Hair," one of his novels sees a character listen to the relevance of a pen sketch of a barber with an exploded head from a man called the Anti-Christ. That novel also features the characters Wang Dang Lang and Rick Vigorous in addition to the protagonist's brother Stoney. Another of his novels features a man that punts for the Arizona Cardinals, Orin, whose father founded the Enfield Tennis Academy.  For ten points, name this author that created Lenore Beadsman and James Incandenza in addition to writing The Pale King, as well as The Broom of the System and Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace 
9

115088-)
A subplot involves an old couple who fall in love after listening to each other through a wall before getting married, Mr. Grannis and Miss. Parker. The protagonist, who can play "some half-dozen very mournful airs" on the concertina he probably doesn't realize was invented by Charles Wheatstone, participates in a wrestling match in which he has part of his ear bitten off. One character has the fingers of her right hand amputated when the paint she uses on her toy animal carvings causes an infection, and that character enjoys literally rolling around on her money after she withdraws her five thousand dollar lottery winnings in coins. The protagonist of this work is left with the money after he kills Trina, but is stranded in Death Valley, handcuffed to the corpse of Marcus after being forced out of his dentist trade. For 10 points name this novel by Frank Norris
McTeague: A Story of San Francisco
9

115108-)
One of this man's novels describes a boy named Tony Nailles, who refuses to get out of bed and is eventually kidnapped by his neighbor, Paul Hammer, who plans to kill him in a church. One of this man's short stories is about a rakish man named Blake, who is held hostage on a train by a slightly deranged former lover, Miss Dent. Besides Bullet Park and "The Five-Forty-Eight," this man wrote a story which climaxes when the protagonist cries after being unable to spot the constellations of midsummer and is further horrified when he discovers his own home to be empty. This man's first novel describes life in St. Botolph's, Massachusetts and features such characters as Cousin Honora. FTP, name this author who wrote about Neddy Merill in the story "The Swimmer" and about Leander, Moses, and Coverly, the titular family in his The Wapshot Chronicle.
John Cheever 
9

115135-)
One character in this novel confesses to having dueled a wicked nobleman in Siena and to having had an affair with Sally Godfrey.  That character is angered when he learns from Simon Darnford about the plans of Parson Williams and the central character.  This novel inspired one author to write a short work ending with a letter from Parson Tickletext to Parson Oliver, as well as a novel featuring Fanny Goodwill and Parson Abraham Adams.  This novel's central male character disguises himself as the servant Nan and has his wicked housekeeper Mrs. Jewkes hold the naked central character in bed, but she faints before he can rape her.  FTP name this epistolary novel showcasing "Virtue Rewarded" in which the title character finally marries Squire B., written by Samuel Richardson.
Pamela, or, Virtue Rewarded
9

115144-)
Some of his comrades refer to him as the "Iron Mask," and George Pons mistakenly believes he is the author of "Junius."  He throws away a borrowed copy of "The Lay of the Last Minstrel" and disappears for two months upon reading a passage beginning, "Breathes there the man, with soul so dead."  His nickname "Plain-Buttons" refers to his habit of wearing regulation uniforms while being forbidden to wear the army button, but his real name is Philip Nolan.  He suffers an awkward moment during a dinner conversation when his request for news from Texas is rebuffed.  FTP name this title character of an Edward Everett Hale story whose shout of "Damn the United States!  I wish I may never hear of the United States again!" leads to his shipboard exile. 
The Man Without a Country (accept Philip Nolan [either name] before mention in the question; prompt on the "Iron Mask" or "Plain-Buttons")
9

115155-)
One character in this novel confesses to having dueled a wicked nobleman in Siena and to having had an affair with Sally Godfrey.  That character is angered when he learns from Simon Darnford about the plans of Parson Williams and the central character.  This novel inspired one author to write a short work ending with a letter from Parson Tickletext to Parson Oliver, as well as a novel featuring Fanny Goodwill and Parson Abraham Adams.  This novel's central male character disguises himself as the servant Nan and has his wicked housekeeper Mrs. Jewkes hold the naked central character in bed, but she faints before he can rape her.  FTP name this epistolary novel showcasing "Virtue Rewarded" in which the title character finally marries Squire B., written by Samuel Richardson.
Pamela, or, Virtue Rewarded
9

115164-)
Some of his comrades refer to him as the "Iron Mask," and George Pons mistakenly believes he is the author of "Junius."  He throws away a borrowed copy of "The Lay of the Last Minstrel" and disappears for two months upon reading a passage beginning, "Breathes there the man, with soul so dead."  His nickname "Plain-Buttons" refers to his habit of wearing regulation uniforms while being forbidden to wear the army button, but his real name is Philip Nolan.  He suffers an awkward moment during a dinner conversation when his request for news from Texas is rebuffed.  FTP name this title character of an Edward Everett Hale story whose shout of "Damn the United States!  I wish I may never hear of the United States again!" leads to his shipboard exile. 
The Man Without a Country (accept Philip Nolan [either name] before mention in the question; prompt on the "Iron Mask" or "Plain-Buttons")
9

115172-)
During John F. Kennedy's assassination, a man who had social relationships with both Kennedy and Lee Harvey Oswalkd, George de Mohrenschildt, was allegedly on a CIA mission to overthrow this man, which was aborted due to the change of President. Shortly after this man took power, a middle-class exodus from his country created the "Boeing people." Before coming to power, this man led the opposition to the Paul Magloire regime following the overthrow of this man's patron Dumarsais EstimÃ©. This former administrator of a yaws eradication campaign was a follower of Lorimer Denis and thus joined the mystic Groupe des Griots. While in power, one of his most notorious associates was ClÃ©ment Barbot, who organized the secret police known as the "Boogeymen" or Tontons Macoutes. For 10 points, name this dictator who handed off power to his son Jean-Claude upon his death and was a Haitian despot nicknamed for his medical degree.
Francois Duvalier [or Papa Doc Duvalier; prompt on Duvalier]
9

115181-)
He fails to receive the 800 hundred dollars his grandfather gave his mother as she dies before telling him about the money.  Among his acquaintances are Joe Welling, the local Standard Oil agent, and Seth Richmond to whom he confesses the identity of the girl he loves.  Among the other girls he meets are Louise Trunnion, to whom he loses his virginity, and Kate Swift, a teacher with whom he flirts.  He works for the Eagle, the local newspaper, but abandons that job and leaves after his encounter with Helen White, who was back from college in Cleveland.  He does not appear in any of the four parts of "Godliness" or in the first story, "Hands," but is still the central character in a 1919 collection of short stories.  FTP, name this Sherwood Anderson character, a young resident of Winesburg, Ohio.
George Willard (accept either name)
9

115204-)
This poem's fourth stanza contains a dubious attempt to rhyme "draught" with "quaffed," and in the foregoing stanzas, the title character dreams of her father wearing "a broadcloth coat," and her brother sailing "a painted boat." After thinking of his sisters, "proud and cold," another character in this poem later causes lawyers to smile by humming "an old love-tune." That character marries "a wife of richest dower/ Who lived for fashion as he for power," while this work's main character ends up married to "a man unlearned and poor/ And many children played round her door." This poem's last stanza exhorts God to pity the "rich repiner and household druge," and hopes that "in the hereafter," angels will "roll the stone" away from the grave of "some sweet hope," and that also stanza contains the famous couplet, "For of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these: 'It might have been.'" For ten points, identify this poem in which the title woman meets a Judge while walking down the road, written by John Greenleaf Whittier.
Maud Miller 
9

115212-)
In one of this man's works, the "dice of drowned men's bones" "bequeath an embassy." Someonesings "Stamboul Rose" in another of his poems, which beings "I met a man in South Street." Inaddition to "At (*) Melville's Tomb" and "Cutty Sark," his other poems written on commission for OttoKahn include "Quaker Hill," "The River," and "Cape Hatteras." For 10 pointsÂ— name this suicidal authorof The Bridge.
Hart Crane (prompt on Crane)
8

115217-)
His former colleague in the Justice Department, Felix Frankurter, got this future co-chair of the"Interim Committee" appointed to his last Cabinet job. Earlier, Japan's occupation of Manchuriaprompted him to (*) note that conquest in war would not be recognized by the U.S. in his role as Hoover'sSecretary of State. For 10 pointsÂ— name this atomic weapons advocate and Secretary of War during WorldWar II.
Henry Stimson
8

115250-)
This novel includes a Brazilian Zionist who carries a machine gun to his bartending job. Onecharacter in this novel has a glass eye that also functions as a watch. The world of (*) Vheissu isdiscovered by Hugh Godolphin in this book, whose title character appears as the Bad Priest and is thoughtto live in the sewers by Herbert Stencil. For 10 pointsÂ— Benny Profane appears in what Thomas Pynchonnovel with a one-letter title?
V
8

115282-)
At one point in this play, the protagonist explains her belief in "God the Mother," and later she criesout "you're hitting your father!" That character settles down with Charles (*) Marsden after theeffects of Gordon Shaw's death in war make the marriage of Sam Evans difficult, due to his wife banging aseries of soldiers at a hospital. For 10 pointsÂ— name this play about Nina Leeds, written by EugeneO'Neill.
Strange Interlude
8

115298-)
A "heaving speech of air, a summer sound / Repeated in a summer without end" is described in this poem, which mentions a critic from Nouvelle revue francaise who also penned "I Came Near Being a Fascist." The lights of the fishing boats in this poem "mastered the night" and "arranging, deepening, enchanting night," while it ends with words "in ghostlier demarcations, keener sounds." The description of a woman, who "was the maker of the song she sang" and "sang beyond the genius of the sea," takes place throughout this poem, during which the narrator wants to know "the words of the sea" from Ramon Fernandez. FTP, name this Wallace Stevens poem that takes place at the title Florida locale
The Idea of Order at Key West 
7

115329-)
In this work, Fayette offers Miller work on a secret project to produce chemical weapons, and Florence and Sid are unable to marry due to their economic situation. A stenographer introduces the actor Philips to the Communist Manifesto, and Dr. Benjamin likewise turns to communism and contemplates emigrating to Russia. At one point in this work, a man claiming to be Tom Clayton from Philadelphia is exposed as being a company spy named Clancy, and Agate Keller emerges at the end of the play to urge resistance against the boss class, which is epitomized by the corrupt union leader Harry Fatt. The title character is revealed to have been shot dead by racketeers at the end of this work, and the play ends with a call to strike. For 10, points name this play about the hardships of taxicab drivers, a work of Clifford Odets.  
Waiting of Lefty 
7

115331-)
Like his adoptive son, this character wears an ear jewel that allows him to speak with the artificially intelligent Jane. In one appearance, this character attempts to assist the biologist Novinha against the Descolada virus and ends up joining the monastery of the Children of the Mind. In another appearance, this character was taught by Mazer Rackham, and members of his jeesh include Alai and Hot Soup. This character's brother takes the pseudonym Locke, while his sister takes the pseudonym Demosthenes, and in Battle School, he accidentally kills another student. For 10 points, identify this character who appears in Speaker for the Dead and in a more well-known novel fights the buggers in his namesake Game. 
Ender Wiggin [prompt on Wiggin] 
7

115344-)
Toward the end of this work, the grubman mistakes the protagonist for a gentleman forger because he is so pale and later notes that he seems to live without dining. At the opening of this work, the narrator introduces a character who becomes fervid and tends to make blots in the afternoon and an errand boy named for the type of cake he brings. The narrator also feels pity and sympathy for that lonely protagonist, who dies at the Tombs as a vagrant and ends the narration by exclaiming "Ah, humanity!" Conflict arises when the titular character, a former worker at the Dead Letters Office, begins to live in the office and refuses to quit his employer.  Working with Turkey, Nippers, and Gingernut is the title character of, FTP, which Herman Melville short story whose protagonist's pet phrase is "I would prefer not to"?  
"Bartleby, the Scrivener"
7

115351-)
He described the Book of Mormon as "chloroform in print", and started a hoax with "The Petrified Man", one of the early articles he wrote for Nevada's Territorial Enterprise. He joined William Dean Howells as a spokesman for the Anti-Imperialist League, and parodied the life of painter Jean-Francois Millet in his burlesque play Is He Dead?. Non-fiction works such as "The Private History of a Campaign That Failed," "How to Tell a Story" and A Tramp Abroad describe his wartime experience and travels; but it was his fiction that brought him to fame, such as The Prince and the Pauper and The Tragedy of Pudd'nhead Wilson. For 10 points, name this author of The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, a pseudonym for Samuel Clemens
Mark Twain [accept Samuel Clemens before that name is mentioned]
7

115381-)
This character tries to say "Jesus will help you" but can only murmur "Jesus, Jesus," prompting anothercharacter to agree that "Jesus shown everything off balance." She tells a fraudulent story about a plantationhouse where family silver is hidden, but cannot remember if it is in Tennessee or Georgia. This charactercalls another character "one of my babies" and reaches out to touch his shoulder before being shot to death.She hides her cat, Pitty Sing, in a basket, but it gets loose and causes a car accident, indirectly causing thedeath of her family at the hands of the Misfit. For 10 points, name this elderly protagonist of FlanneryO'Connor's story "A Good Man Is Hard to Find."
the grandmother
7

115393-)
Immediately before this event, the protagonist is shown a copy of a "Hopalong Cassidy" book whichfeatures such handwritten notes as "read one improving book per week." This event concludes with a manwiping his glasses and saying, "the poor son-of-a-bitch." Shortly before this event, the novel's protagonistgoes to the Swastika Holding Company to meet a criminal. One man asks the protagonist to return histennis shoes while refusing to come to this event, and the protagonist also fails to convince EwingKlipspringer or Meyer Wolfsheim to attend. The only people who attend it are "Owl-Eyes," the victim'sfather, and Nick Carraway. For 10 points, name this event in an F. Scott Fitzgerald novel in which the titlecharacter is memorialized.
Jay Gatsby's funeral [or James Gatz's funeral]
7

115400-)
In anticipation of public disapproval of this novel, the publishing company D. Appleton &amp; Companydeleted several chapters from the original manuscript. It contains a scene in which the protagonist tosses apinecone at a squirrel and enters a forest grove resembling a chapel, only to stumble upon a decaying, greencorpse. Opening with the image of "the cold pass[ing] reluctantly from the earth, and the retiring fogreveal[ing] an army stretched out on the hills," this novel includes such characters as a talkative "tatteredman" with two bullet wounds and Wilson, who takes care of the protagonist. Early in this novel, JimConklin announces the advance of the protagonist's Union regiment. For 10 points, name this novel aboutHenry Fleming, written by Stephen Crane.
 The Red Badge of Courage
7

115433-)
A comic interlude in this play involves a man complaining about his neighbor's pigs fouling his pond,only to see T. Stedman Harder chased off. In its first scene, a man speculates as to whether a schemeto interrupt a sexual encounter with a shotgun is being hatched. Taking place on (*) Phil Hogan'sfarm, for 10 pointsÂ— name this Eugene O'Neill play about the fate of James Tyrone, Jr. after Long Day'sJourney Into Night.
A Moon for the Misbegotten
8

115447-)
A leukemia patient recalls an educational birthday present in one of this man's poems. This author of"The Transparent Man" said his favorite of his own works was Venetian Vespers. A Polish manbleeds to death after (*) digging a grave in one of his poems, and he also wrote about a girl "running tofat" who hangs out with Matthew Arnold. For 10 pointsÂ— name this author of "More Light! More Light!"and "The Dover Bitch."
Anthony Hecht
8

115483-)
One of his poems alludes to a "terrible breath" and asks "what had you been thinking about," whileanother describes the "gliding" of "swift blades" and is found in his volume Rivers and Mountains.He also wrote a poem about "the right (*) hand, bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer." For 10pointsÂ— name this author of "The Skaters," "Some Trees," "The Tennis Court Oath," and "Self-Portrait in aConvex Mirror."
John Ashbery
8

115491-)
One of his books takes place five years after the assassination of Emily Forrester and sees John JayUniversity professor Gideon Wolfe travel to Africa. Another of his books sees Sara Howard caughtup in (*) Theodore Roosevelt's attempt to find a murderer by the use of Laszlo Kreizler, the titularpsychologist. For 10 pointsÂ— name this author of Killing Time, Angel of Darkness, and The Alienist.
Caleb Carr
8

115519-)
The protagonist of this book runs into a man, previously spotted at the bar The Sun and Moon, whilewatching The Pearl of Paraguay. Some time after this experience with (*) Godfrey Sholto, theprotagonist inherits money from Miss Pynsent and sees that the title character has moved to London tobecome a revolutionary. For 10 pointsÂ— name this Henry James novel about Hyacinth Robinson's meetingwith an Italian royal.
The Princess Casamassima
8

115536-)
In one of this man's plays, a character compares the soul to a bladder, while another walks aroundwith balloons tied to his belt. This author of "America Was Promises" wrote that play which uses a(*) circus to tell a modern version of Job, while Bernal Diaz looks back on his time with Cortes in one ofthis man's poems. For 10 pointsÂ— name this author of "You, Andrew Marvell," J.B., and "Conquistador."
Archibald MacLeish
8

115559-)
One of her novels ends with the orphaning of Brownfield, and another follows the title character'sunfulfilling romance with Truman Held. In the most popular novel by this author of Possessing theSecret of Joy, the main character marries the missionary Samuel, (*) Nettie goes to live with theOlinka, and Shug helps Celie stand up for herself. For 10 pointsÂ— name this author of Meridian and TheColor Purple.
Alice Walker
8

115586-)
A Soviet comissar falls in love with an American heiress on a ship in his Between Two Worlds, andthis man also wrote a play in which Frank kills (*) two people and Harry Easter is the doting boss ofRose Maurrant. In another of his plays, Daisy Diana Dorothea Devore constantly yells numbers to Mr.Zero. For 10 pointsÂ— name this author of Street Scene and The Adding Machine.
Elmer Rice
8

115619-)
At one point in the work she appears in, this character tells the narrator, "It should take you about fourseconds to walk from here to the door. I'll give you two." This character shoplifts Halloween masks withthe narrator and gives a weekly "weather report" to a gangster in Sing Sing. She makes plans to marry aBrazilian diplomat after her roommate's wedding. This woman's possessions include a cat that she refusesto name. This character lives in the same apartment as the unnamed narrator, whom she calls "Fred" afterher soldier brother. For 10 points, name this socialite, the protagonist of Truman Capote's Breakfast atTiffany's.
Holly Golightly [or Holly Golightly; or Lula Mae Barnes; or Lula Mae Barnes]
7

115621-)
One of this author's title characters leaves the management of her estate to Ivy Peters while she has anaffair with Frank Ellinger, much to the dismay of the narrator, Niel Herbert. Another of this author'sprotagonists falls in love with Fred Ottenburg while on a trip to the pueblos in Flagstaff, Arizona aftertaking music lessons with Harsanyi. This author of A Lost Lady wrote about Dr. Archie in a novel centeringon an opera singer from Moonstone. In another of her novels, the narrator flirts with Lena Lingard andimpresses the future lover of Larry Donovan, a member of the Shimerda family. For 10 points, name thisauthor of The Song of the Lark and My Antonia.
Willa Cather
7

115636-)
When this character is prohibited from drinking wine, he bribes a porter to bring him wine from behindhis bed, which contributes to his later contraction of jaundice. This man's attempts to reach Udine throughside roads fail, forcing him to float down a river on a log. He ends the novel he appears in by stating, "Aftera while I went out and left the hospital and walked back to the hotel in the rain." His lover gives him a St.Anthony Medal after being introduced to him with Helen Ferguson. This friend of Rinaldi vacations inMontreux with a woman who dies after giving birth in Lausanne. For 10 points, name this lover ofCatherine Barkley, an ambulance driver and protagonist of Ernest Hemingway's A Farewell to Arms.
Frederic Henry [or Frederic Henry]
7

115646-)
Toni Morrison wrote about this concept "and the Literary Imagination" in her book of criticism Playingin the Dark. The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym ends with the narrator seeing a shrouded figure with skinof this color. Another novel mentions how stones of this color were considered good luck among theRomans and asks whether it "shadows forth the heartless void and immensities of the universe, and thusstabs us from behind with the thought of annihilation." In that novel, one character calls for the death of afigure of this color in the chapter "The Quarter-Deck." The narrator of that work is the only survivor of thedestruction of the Pequod by the animal of this color. For 10 points, name this color of the whaleMoby-Dick.
white [or whiteness]
7

115666-)
Sally Poker hopes to see her grandfather attend her college graduation in this author's "A Late Encounter with the Enemy." Another work by this author sees Glynese balk at being married in an office instead of by a preacher and ends with Hulga's wooden leg being taken by the Bible salesman Manley Pointer. In another work by this author, a character sits next to a (*) black man on the bus to teach his mother a lesson; the mother ends up collapsing from a stroke after trying to give a black child a penny. In her best-known short story, a grandmother tries to avoid being shot by invoking Jesus' sacrifice, but The Misfit kills her anyway. For 10 points, name this author of "Good Country People" and "A Good Man is Hard to Find."
Flannery O'Connor [accept "A Late Encounter with the Enemy" before "this author"]
7

115688-)
In one story, this author wrote about Jacobus Laningdale, who suggests bombing China with glass tubescontaining disease-ridden mosquitoes. One of his autobiographical characters drowns himself on a trip tothe South Seas. This writer lived in London's East End to do research for The People of the Abyss. Thisauthor of "The Unparalleled Invasion" and an essay about "Yellow Peril" wrote a novel set in the year 419B.O.M. narrated by Avis Everhard, who is killed by the Oligarchy. A man from Sulphur Creek warns theprotagonist of one of his stories not to go out alone, but he disobeys and freezes to death. For 10 points,name this author of The Iron Heel and "To Build a Fire," which has the same setting as his The Call of theWild.
Jack London
7

115700-)
One character with this profession kills the cat belonging to his wife Martha while digging in theirbasement and comes up with pennants for his imaginary "Party of Disappointed People." William Kohlerhas this job in William H. Gass's novel The Tunnel. Another character with this job argues with his sonover whether it is currently raining because his son had heard on the radio that it would not rain that day.That character with this profession shoots Willie Mink after learning Mink has been giving his wife Dylar,a drug intended to treat the fear of death, and is insecure about not knowing German despite working in theDepartment of Hitler Studies. For 10 points, name this profession of Jack Gladney in Don DeLillo's WhiteNoise.
professor [prompt on teacher]
7

115724-)
A character in this novel feels a sense of "communion" after realizing that millions of people before him had "polished the wood" of a subway turnstile with their hip. This novel's protagonist kills time at a trial in which a clerk at the Montcalme testifies about a woman killing her son by throwing him into a wall. A character in this novel gets mentioned in the newspaper for giving mouth-to-mouth to his tubercular pet monkey Rocco. A car accident in this novel results in the protagonist being jailed after police officers find that he's carrying his dead father's revolver loaded with two bullets. Its protagonist refers to various people, including his lawyers Simkin and Himmelstein, as "reality instructors", and obsesses over the value of low-grade "potato love". That protagonist plots to "rescue" his daughter Junie from his ex-wife Madeleine, who ran off with his friend Valentine Gersbach, and spends much of this novel mentally writing letters to people. For 10 points, name this Saul Bellow novel about a former academic named Moses.
Herzog
8

115755-)
In one scene in this novel, a character responds to a series of predictable lies with routine jokes until he hears a defrocked priest say "we are all members of one another". This novel's protagonist was present at that scene due to a comically botched attempt to steal six electric "eye-rons". A character in this novel spends most of her time staring at a nearby rail line from her wheelchair. This novel ends with its protagonist's April Fools' Day suicide, after the police captain Record Head Bednar gets Sparrow Saltskin to reveal that the protagonist killed Nifty Louie Fomorowski. This novel centers on an aspiring drummer who lives with his psychosomatically-paralyzed wife Zosh but has an affair with "Molly-O" Novotny, in whose apartment he beats the "thirty-five-pound monkey on [his] back", his phrase for his heroin addiction. For 10 points, name this novel about Francis Majcinek, or "Frankie Machine", written by Nelson Algren.
The Man with the Golden Arm
8

115770-)
This character repeats the phrase "blue sky, blue eyes" while trying to convince another character to take a chased silver ring. A visit to the town photographer reveals that the picture of the baby in a great gilt frame belongs to this character, who relates a story about a tramp who jumps head-first into a threshing machine. This character also tells the narrator a story about people being thrown from a sledge to the wolves by Peter and Pavel. She returns from Denver after being abandoned by her fiance Larry Donovan. An episode at the Vannis' dancing tent causes this character to lose her position with Mrs. Harling, after which she goes to work for the lecherous Wick Cutter. This friend of Lena Lingard eventually marries Anton Cuzak and settles down in Black Hawk. For 10 points, name this title character whose life is chronicled by Jim Burden in a Willa Cather novel.
Antonia Shimerda Cuzak [prompt on "A. Shimerda" or "A. Cuzak"]
8

115791-)
This character repeats the phrase "blue sky, blue eyes" while trying to convince another character to take a chased silver ring. A visit to the town photographer reveals that the picture of the baby in a great gilt frame belongs to this character, who relates a story about a tramp who jumps head-first into a threshing machine. This character also tells the narrator a story about people being thrown from a sledge to the wolves by Peter and Pavel. She returns from Denver after being abandoned by her fiance Larry Donovan. An episode at the Vannis' dancing tent causes this character to lose her position with Mrs. Harling, after which she goes to work for the lecherous Wick Cutter. This friend of Lena Lingard eventually marries Anton Cuzak and settles down in Black Hawk. For 10 points, name this title character whose life is chronicled by Jim Burden in a Willa Cather novel.
Antonia Shimerda Cuzak [prompt on "A. Shimerda" or "A. Cuzak"]
8

115816-)
One work by this author inveighs against "purchased lips that kiss with pain" and "trafficked hearts that break in twain;" that poetic lament is delivered by the "melting clarionet," following the violins' declaration, "O Trade! Would thou wert dead!" Brown grows fat and prosperous in the "county of red hills and stones," unlike Jones, in this man's dialect poem, "Thar's More in the Man than Thar is in the Land." In one poem by this author of "The Symphony," the rushes' admonition to "abide, abide" is ignored by a thing that "[flees] from folly on every side" and "hurries amain to reach the plain." In that poem, this author sees creeks overflowing so that "a thousand rivulets run 'twixt the roots of the sod" in the title location. In another poem he transcribed the call of a river that runs "o'er the hills of Habersham" and "through the valleys of Hall." "The Marshes of Glynn" is by, for 10 points, what this Southern poet who praised his native Georgia in "The Song of the Chattahoochee?"
Sidney Lanier [or Sidney Clopton Lanier]
8

115840-)
While lying in a bed on a train, the protagonist of this novel imagines that he is in a coffin and recalls the funerals of his grandfather and two younger brothers, one of whom died in a mowing accident. The protagonist of this novel follows a man and his daughter to give her a potato peeler that she was unable to afford earlier. A character in this novel frequently watches a woman from the bushes at the public swimming pool, and later on steals a mummy from a museum. Its protagonist visits the prostitute Leora Watts during his first night in Taulkinham, where he buys an Essex automobile with which he runs over Solace Layfield. One of this novel's major characters kills a man wearing a gorilla suit, then steals the suit and disappears. After meeting Asa Hawks and Sabbath Lily, the protagonist establishes the Church Without Christ, and he later blinds himself with lime. For 10 points, name this book about Enoch Emery and Hazel Motes, the first novel by Flannery O'Connor.
Wise Blood
8

115853-)
Near the end of this novel, the main character and his lover sit at a table in the Majestic Hotel and give contrasting speeches on the topic of moral obligation. In the last chapter of this novel, the protagonist prepares to lead a group of people in storming a hotel room, only to realize that he has wet himself. The main characters of this novel fall into a tunnel complex from which there is apparently no escape, but they escape from it by falling back out, at the suggestion of Sarkin Aung Wan. This novel contains three narrative threads: the first describes the protagonist looking down at a beach from his observation post, the second consists of flashbacks to events like the deaths of Bernie Lynn and Frenchie Tucker, and the third is the title action, which is largely imagined by the protagonist. The title character of this novel decides to walk to Paris and goes AWOL, but is pursued by a squad of soldiers including Paul Berlin. For 10 points, name this novel by the author of The Things They Carried, Tim O'Brien.
Going After Cacciato
8

115874-)
A poem by this man that notes that "Soft airs, and song, and light, and bloom" should keep friends "lingering by my tomb" was praised by Edgar Allan Poe in "The Poetic Principle". Another of his poems contains the line "Truth, crushed to earth, shall rise again", which was quoted by MLK Jr. in his "Give Us the Ballot" speech. This author of "June" and "Battle-field" gained early popularity with a political satire that opens with the couplet "When private faith and public trust are sold, and traitors barter liberty for gold". He wrote a poem that describes a "a Power whose care / teaches thy way along that pathless coast" and asks its addressee if it "seek'st" the "plashy brink". That poem by this man notes that "the abyss of heaven / Hath swallowed up" the title figure, who is asked "whither, midst falling dew [...] dost thou pursue thy solitary way?" For 10 points, name this author of the anti-Jeffersonian poem "The Embargo," a longtime editor of the New York Evening Post whose poems include "To a Waterfowl."
William Cullen Bryant
8

115904-)
During a lengthy, opium-induced slumber, the protagonist of this novel dreams of visiting Mount Parnassus on a flying chair. A character in this novel has to walk to town behind a flatulent horse after being unable to come up with a rhyme for "month." Three brothers in this novel are revealed to be descendants of a missionary who was allowed to sleep with all of a village's women before being burnt alive for spitting on a muskrat idol. The pirates Captain Skurry and Captain Sly appear in this novel, which also describes an aphrodisiac made from the "Sacred Eggplant." After being thrown overboard the Poseidon with his valet, the protagonist of this novel saves an African slave he calls Dirkpecker. At the end of this novel, the protagonist consummates his marriage with the syphilitic prostitute Joan Toast, and his tutor Henry Burlingame III leaves to live among the Indians. The main character is commissioned to write an epic Marylandiad, but pens the title satire instead. For 10 points, name this novel about Ebenezer Cooke by John Barth.
The Sot-Weed Factor
8

115939-)
The voice of one of this poet's speakers "falls dead a foot from [his] own lips" as he cries out to a vessel. The speaker of that poem looks "far out into the pregnant night," where he can "hear a solemn booming gun," and the poem begins by noting how "out in the sky the dark clouds are massing" and ends each stanza with the repeated words, "passing, passing." The line "G'way an' quit dat noise, Miss Lucy" from this poet's "When Malindy Sings" exemplifies his use of dialect in poems he classified as "minors" to contrast with the normal-language "majors" in one collection. Another poem by this man invites the world to "dream otherwise" while the speakers resort to an object that "hides our cheeks and shades our eyes" and "grins and lies." For 10 points, name this African American poet of "Ships That Pass in the Night," "We Wear the Mask" and "Sympathy," which claims, "I know why the caged bird sings."
Paul Laurence Dunbar
8

115958-)
This author used the line "The bottle crashed his skull and he was out" to depict a man's death in a bar-room; that line was praised by Sartre in an essay calling this author "the greatest writer of our time." Another novel by this author ends with the pages of the composition "The Body and Soul of John Brown" blowing off a desk as a character is arrested for desertion. One section of a novel by this author opens with the declaration, "they have clubbed us off the streets" and later states, "all right we are two nations" in response to the executions of Sacco and Vanzetti. Another novel by this author ends with a section about the dead body of the soldier John Doe at Chalons-sur-Marne. The public relations executive J. Ward Moorehouse appears in his best-known work, which includes journalistic "Newsreels" and impressionistic "Camera Eye" sections. For 10 points, name this author of Three Soldiers and the U.S.A. Trilogy.
John Dos Passos [or John Roderigo Dos Passos; do not accept or prompt on "( John) Passos"]
8

115985-)
A character in this novel writes the French words "A bientot," meaning "see you soon," on the guidebook of a woman she secretly follows to a rock overlooking a gulf. The protagonist of this novel jokes that her complexion is several shades greener than that of a woman in a Bronzino portrait. In this novel's last line, a woman breaks off a relationship by exclaiming "We shall never be again as we were!" after her lover pleads with her to refuse an inheritance bequest. The protagonist of this novel hires a valet named Eugenio and purchases the fancy Palazzo Leporelli upon relocating to Venice. The surgeon Sir Luke Strett diagnoses the terminal illness of this novel's protagonist, whom Merton Densher agrees to marry in exchange for sex from his real lover, Kate Croy, who is desperate to escape financial dependence on her aunt Maud Lowder. For 10 points, name this novel about an English couple's plan to swindle the American heiress Milly Theale, written by Henry James.
The Wings of the Dove
8

115995-)
 In this novel, a mangled female body is found in the street after being eaten by dogs, and when a woman stops to investigate, a group of trick-or-treating kids steal her purse. That woman in this novel makes money by singing at Oscar Reo's bar, the Gilded Cage. This novel begins with the protagonist walking in a graveyard and seeing the ghosts of people like Aldo Campione and Katrina Daugherty, whom he failed to save earlier in life. The pivotal event in the protagonist's life occurred when he dropped and killed his infant son Gerald while trying to change his diapers, an accident for which he exiled himself from his family for 22 years. Rudy Kraut and Old Rosskam are the homeless friends of former baseball player Francis, the protagonist of this novel. For 10 points, name this novel that follows Billy Phelan's Greatest Game as the final part of the Albany Cycle and was written by William Kennedy.
Ironweed [prompt on the "Albany Cycle"]
8

116009-)
The central event of this novel takes place in a house cluttered with telephone books from different cities, railroad calendars, and berries hanging in sacks from the ceiling. After following a constellation to Mount Taylor, the protagonist cuts the barbed wire fence at the ranch of Floyd Lee. At the beginning of this novel, the protagonist finds himself unable to shoot Japanese soldiers because they all resemble his uncle. Its protagonist remembers his sexual encounter with the Night Swan when he meets the mysterious Ts'eh, who helps him find the spotted cattle that belonged to Josiah. A climactic event in this novel is Rocky's death during the Bataan death march, which is a major cause of the protagonist's PTSD. The protagonist of this novel refuses to kill the manipulative Emo, thanks to the "stories" given to him by the medicine man Betonie. For 10 points, name this novel about the Pueblo veteran Tayo, a work of Leslie Marmon Silko.
Ceremony
8

116021-)
In this play's last scene, the main character assumes the pose of Rodin's The Thinker and tells a companion that we are "both members of de same club." The fifth scene of this play is set in a street where one can see a jeweler's shop featuring items whose prices are intermittently displayed in large electric characters. In its opening scene, Paddy sings "Oh, whiskey is the life of man!" repeatedly to encourage the main character to drink. The main character is imprisoned at Blackwell's Island after striking a gentleman on Fifth Avenue, though he later escapes and goes to an IWW office. However, he causes alarm when he expresses a desire to blow things up with dynamite. During a visit to the stokehold of a ship, a rich girl named Mildred Douglas calls the protagonist a "dirty beast". A scene in which a huge gorilla hugs Yank to death ends, for 10 points, what expressionist drama of Eugene O'Neill that is titled for a primate?
The Hairy Ape
8

116042-)
In one play by this author, a Minister on an ocean liner listens to various stories from a Long-Winded Lady, an Old Woman, and Chairman Mao Tse-Tung. In another of his plays, a woman gives a monologue describing the muscle and sinews of a man with whom she was in love. In that play's first act a 26-year-old lawyer tries to ascertain the correct age of her nonagenarian client. In another play by this author, a man must explain what a "brute beast" is to a character who is told that "flux" is responsible for evolution. That play by this author is punctuated with noises made by an offstage jet and concerns Sarah and Leslie, a couple who do not understand love. This author wrote a play in which "the boy" is an object of contention in the bickering of A, B, and C. In another of his plays, Nancy and Charlie are visited by a pair of lizards. For 10 points, name this author of Three Tall Women and Seascape, who also wrote Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee [or Edward Franklin Albee III]
8

116055-)
This book uses the line "Riding three days and nights he came upon the place, but decided it could not be come upon" in its odd poetic epilogue, which is titled "Reflections upon the Path." Its "interchapter" asserts that William Empson and George Wilson Knight are the "best critics of our time" and claims that "every deep reader is an Idiot Questioner." This book's first section discusses a figure that may disguise itself as the Sphinx in its efforts to "block the way," called the Covering Cherub, and it suggests John Milton's Satan is an allegory for the modern poet at his strongest, while Adam represents the constricted "ephebe." It discusses the Lucretius-derived idea of poetic misprision, or misreading, in the section titled "Clinamen," which is one of its six "revisionary ratios." For 10 points, name this work of literary criticism that discusses how poets struggle with their relationships to their precursors, written by Harold Bloom.
The Anxiety of Influence
8

116072-)
In the 1920's, this author took a hiatus and produced an incredibly researched 1000-page biography of John Keats. This poet, who used many "unrhymed cadences," penned a series of poems inspired by the Far East termed "Chinoiseries," which can be found in the collection Pictures from the Floating World. In a poem from the collection Men, Women and Ghosts, this poet observed "I walk down the garden paths and all the daffodils are blowing." That poem includes a scene in which the speaker learns that Lord Hartwell died in action on Thursday and concludes by exclaiming "Christ! What are [the title things] for?" She repeats the lines "false blue, / white, / purple/" to describe the title flowers of her poem "Lilacs." For 10 points, identify this author of What's O'Clock, "Patterns"and A Dome of Many Colored Glass, who wrote poetry in the Imagist style.
Amy Lowell [prompt on "Lowell"]
8

116081-)
After turning down the lead in a stage adaptation of this novel, a character in a different story knocks over a candle at an Italian restaurant because he is angry about being thrown out of his Jewish friend Jules's apartment. That story was written by an author who claimed that this novel creates a "climate of anarchy and [an] unmotivated and un-apprehended disaster," noting the "overwhelming limitation" of the "fearful image" it "[attempts] to redeem... in social terms." The novel-within-a-novel Fuck from Percival Everett's Erasure parodies both Sapphire's Push and this novel. The protagonist of this novel "has accepted a theology that denies him life" according to an essay that traces its lineage from Uncle Tom's Cabin. This novel was criticized in "Many Thousands Gone" and "Everybody's Protest Novel," two essays in a James Baldwin collection of "notes" named for it. For 10 points, name this novel in which Mary Dalton is suffocated by Bigger Thomas, a work of Richard Wright.
Native Son
8

116110-)
Near the end of this story, the "Man in the Moon" says "Oho, the old Earth is frolicsome to-night!" after hearing a "far bellow" of laughter. The main character of this story offends a man whose speech is constantly punctuated with a pair of "sepulchral hems." Its protagonist is suspected of being the escaped bondservant Hezekiah Mudge when he poses a question to an innkeeper. This story opens by describing the misfortunes of six governors in the last forty years, and closes with its main character being told that he might be able to "rise in the world" without the title figure. Its action begins with the protagonist disembarking a ferry with his oak cudgel. The protagonist eventually meets a man with two protrusions on his forehead whose face is painted half-red and half-black, who predicts the arrival of a procession including the title character. For 10 points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne story in which Robin eventually meets the titular tarred-and-feathered relative.
"My Kinsman, Major Molineux"
8

116120-)
A long chapter of this book describes Foppl's brutal rape of an African slave named Sarah. This novel gives the backstory of Shale Schoenmaker, who was inspired to become a plastic surgeon after his idol, the pilot Evan Godolphin, disfigured his face in a plane crash. A chapter of this novel opens with one of the main characters learning about the theory of "psychodontia" from Dr. Dudley Eigenvalue. An early chapter of this book is a reworking of its author's short story "Under the Rose," and this book introduces the author's recurring character of Kurt Mondaugen, who witnesses the Great Herero Uprising while in German Southwest Africa. The beginning of this book features an alligator hunt through the sewers of Manhattan by a member of the Whole Sick Crew. It ostensibly follows Benny Profane and Herbert Stencil, who search for the mysterious title woman. For 10 points, name this first novel of Thomas Pynchon.
V.
8

116148-)
A poem by this man contains a passage that reads "They must hold against / The fire rain / or when / sometime it seems / upwards, hands down / against / pilloried / sell quickly took her / bearings / did not appear entirely / a height of five thousand feet," and is divided into 111 numbered sections. Another of his poems, which includes the lines "sometimes they were in sordid sexual situations; / at others, a smidgen of fun would intrude on our day," features the Vivians and was inspired by the work of outsider artist Henry Darger. This author included the long poem "Europe" in his collection The Tennis Court Oath. He wrote "Girls on the Run" and won the Yale Younger Poets Prize for his collection Some Trees. Another of his poems features the lines "the right hand / Bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer," and "The glass chose to reflect only what he saw." For 10 points, name this New York School poet of "Self Portrait in a Convex Mirror."
John Ashbery
8

116212-)
This work's narrator forgets to bring a dog with him when he visits the supposedly poisonous "Grotto of the Dog," making it impossible to see whether it will kill a dog in a minute and a half. In another section, the narrator reads about St. Philip Neri's heart, which was inflamed with so much divine love that it burst his ribs. It also relates a story in which a "relic-hunter" caused a wart to appear on the jaw of the sphinx. In an early chapter, a fellow named Mr. Blucher believes he is ruined when he orders a dinner that appears too costly for his compatriots. The narrator of this book tells the "Legend of the Seven Sleepers" after arriving in Ephesus. This book incorporated a series of letters that had appeared in the Daily Alta California and documents a trip aboard the Quaker City. The success of this book led its author to follow-up with the similar A Tramp Abroad and Roughing It. For 10 points, name this satirical travelogue subtitled "the New Pilgrims' Progress," in which Mark Twain poked fun at the Old World.
The Innocents Abroad
8

116223-)
Mark Richardson compares the speaker of this poem to Huck Finn in an analysis that frames it as a criticism of a certain "mode of being White", noting that this poem "comes fully alive" only after one recognizes the import of a line about "squiggling saxophones". This poem describes figures "smacking their muzzy bellies in parade" as "disaffected flagellants, well-stuffed", and lists "tink and tank and tunk-a-tunk-tunk" as "novelties of the sublime". It tells its addressee that "palm for palm, [...] we are where we began" and admits that "We agree in principle. That's clear." It advocates building a "haunted heaven" and projecting "a masque beyond the planets" from, respectively, a nave and a peristyle constructed from "the moral law" and "the opposing law". This poem notes that "fictive things / Wink as they will" and opens with the related declaration "Poetry is the supreme fiction, madame". For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poem whose title may refer to his religious mother.
"A High-Toned Old Christian Woman"
8

116243-)
This novel's narrator calls his penis "Herr Rickler" when he has sex with his wife, a museum curator who wants to open an antiques store. Its author once explained that this novel consists of "twelve Philippics" and that its structure was based on Arnold Schoenberg's twelve tone scale. At one point, this novel's narrator suggests founding an organization called "The Party of the Disappointed People." Its protagonist recalls his teacher Magus "Mad Meg" Tabor in its section "Life in a Chair" and navigates the dissolution of his relationship with his wife Martha, who collects antique chests of drawers that he fills with dirt. This book is narrated by a Nazi apologist who is contemplating the introduction to his study Guilt and Innocence in Hitler's Germany, while creating the title structure in his basement. For 10 points, name this novel about Professor William Frederick Kohler, the masterpiece of William Gass.
The Tunnel
8

116367-)
Characters in this novel include a Traction Street Company executive whose daughter elopes with theprotagonist's son and a failed poet who writes advertisement jingles. This novel's protagonist, who isfriends with Chum Frink and Howard Littlefield, gives an acclaimed speech in Monarch and declares hissupport for Lucas Prout. The protagonist's best friend, who gave up his dreams of becoming a violinist tojoin the tar-roofing business, takes a liberating trip to Maine and shoots his wife Zilla. The title characterultimately returns to his ill wife Myra and realizes he will never escape his bourgeois lifestyle. For 10points, name this novel about a real estate salesman from Zenith, written by Sinclair Lewis.
Babbitt
7

116375-)
One of this author's protagonists goes into rehab at Remobilization Farm after being afflicted withparalyzing indecisiveness called "cosmopsis." This man included a story about a sperm cell, "Night-SeaJourney," in one collection, and he wrote about Jacob Horner in The End of the Road. This man also wrotea novel whose title character works to become "Grand Tutor" in a nation based on the United States, NewTammany Hall, after he is raised as an animal. Another of his novels centers on a "Poet Laureate ofMaryland" named Ebenezer Cooke. For 10 points, name this postmodern American author of Lost in theFunhouse, Giles Goat-Boy, and The Sot-Weed Factor.
John Barth
7

116390-)
Early in this work, the protagonist detachedly watches an ant caught in a sand trap, and at its ending, theprotagonist watches ants crawl over his boot as he puts his foot in their path. In this work, Apolonia, thesister-in-law of the protagonist, becomes despondent after thinking her sister has died in a fire. Juan Tomaswarns his brother in this work about the dangers of possessing the title object. The refusal of the doctor ofthe village of La Paz to treat Coyotito's shoulder, which has been stung by a scorpion, prompts his father tosearch for a means of paying the doctor. At the end of this novella, Kino returns the title item to the sea. For10 points, name this novella by John Steinbeck about an object found inside a mollusk.
The Pearl
7

116415-)
 In this novel, one character awards a five-dollar prize to a boy's disturbing essay on the topic "MyAmbition: How I Can Better the Position of the Negro Race in Society." That character is thrown in prisonfor confronting a sheriff over the treatment of his son, whose gangrenous feet had to be sawed off when hewas put in a freezing room for three days. Another character distinguishes her "inside room" from her"outside room" and makes plans to kill Hitler with her love interest, Harry Minowitz. This novel's endingshowcases the different reactions of Mick Kelly, Dr. Copeland, and Biff Brannon to the death of a friendwho shoots himself after the death of Spiros Antonapoulos. For 10 points, name this novel about thedeaf-mute John Singer written by Carson McCullers.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
7

116420-)
 In one of this writer's stories, the dumping of powder in old man Riddle's coffee is related by ChunkMacGowan, who was given that powder to seduce Rosy by the Blue Light Drug Store clerk IkeySchoenstein. In another of this writer's stories, a homeless man named Soapy is arrested for loitering, and ina third, a janitor finds a ladder and a palette with green and yellow paint on it on the night of Behrman'sdeath in a hospital. This author of "The Cop and the Anthem" and "The Last Leaf" also wrote a story inwhich Ebenezer Dorset demands payment to have his son returned and a story in which Jim and Dellaexchange Christmas gifts. For 10 points, name this American author of "The Ransom of Red Chief" and"The Gift of the Magi."
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
7

116445-)
 In one of this author's plays, a TV host films an unsuccessful segment about his Pritzker Prize-winningbest friend, who later confides to him his sexual deviance. A low-flying plane frequently interrupts theconversation in another of his plays, which opens shortly after Nancy and Charlie finish their beach picnic.In another play by this man, a woman interprets a story about Mousie to be about her "hystericalpregnancy" in the section "Walpurgisnacht." That play focuses on increasingly traumatic games, like "Getthe Guests" and "Bringing Up Baby." Leslie and Sylvia, two lizards, appear in this man's play Seascape.For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote about George and Martha in Who's Afraid of VirginiaWoolf?
Edward Franklin Albee
7

116453-)
 In this poem, one character spreads her apron to receive the light of the moon "dragging the whole skywith it to the hills." Another character in this poem is haunted by his failure to dissuade a boy namedHarold from pursuing a college education. That character is described as having "nothing to look backwardto with pride, and nothing to look forward to with hope." In this poem's most famous lines, one charactermutters to his wife that "Home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in."For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem in which Warren brusquely reports his discovery of the corpseof Silas, the title laborer.
"The Death of the Hired Man"
7

116464-)
This poem's speaker describes "the wolf, the snake, the hog, not wanting in me, the cheating look, thefrivolous word, the adulterous wish, not wanting" after confessing, "I too knitted the old knot ofcontrariety." This poem's fifth section asks, "What is it then between us? What is the count of the scores orhundreds of years between us?" This poem concludes with the speaker addressing the "dumb, beautifulministers," saying, "You furnish your parts toward eternity, great or small, you furnish your parts towardthe soul." For 10 points, name this Walt Whitman poem beginning, "Flood-tide below me! I see you face toface!"
"Crossing Brooklyn Ferry"
7

116485-)
 This poet asked, "What's madness but nobility of soul at odds with circumstance?" in a poem ending,"The mind enters itself, and God the mind, and one is One, free in the tearing wind." The speakerparenthetically observes, "I measure time by how a body sways" in his poem describing a person "lovelyin her bones." This poet of "In a Dark Time" and "I Knew a Woman" wrote an elegy beginning, "Thewhiskey on your breath could make a small boy dizzy," as well as a villanelle concluding, "I learn by goingwhere I have to go." For 10 points, name this German-American poet of "My Papa's Waltz" and "TheWaking."
Theodore Roethke
7

116504-)
The speaker of one of these poems commands, "Descend lower, descend only into the world of perpetualsolitude, world not world," and recalls the words of a talking bird in a rose garden. The third of thesepoems asks, "Where is there an end to it, the soundless wailing, the silent withering of autumn flowers?"before acknowledging the possibility of "the life of significant soil." The first of these poems begins,"Time present and time past are both perhaps present in time future." These five-section poems, whicheach have an associated classical element, include "The Dry Salvages" and "Burnt Norton." For 10 points,name this late set of complex poems by T. S. Eliot.
the Four Quartets
7

116522-)
The speaker of one poem in this collection notes, "I wish that I might be a thinking stone," beforeobserving, "until now I never knew that fluttering things have so distinct a shade." A poem in thiscollection begins with the observation that "man is the intelligence of his soil" and traces a voyage toCarolina undertaken by the poet Crispin. Another poem in this collection describes a listener who "beholdsnothing that is not there, and the nothing that is." This collection includes "The Comedian as the Letter C,""The Snow Man," and a poem invoking "the roller of big cigars." For 10 points, name this poetrycollection containing "The Emperor of Ice Cream," the first by Wallace Stevens.
Harmonium
7

116528-)
This poem compares its central figure to "Pisanello lacking the skill to forge Achaia," and it recalls atime when "the English Rubaiyat was still-born" and "Gladstone was still respected" in the section "YeuxGlauques." The first section of this poem concludes by predicting a time when "change hath broken downall things save Beauty alone." As related in the opening, this poem's title character was "bent resolutely onwringing lilies from the acorn" and strove for three years "to resuscitate the dead art of poetry." For 10points, name this dense poem about a triply-named poet written by Ezra Pound.
"Hugh Selwyn Mauberley"
7

116538-)
The narrator of one novel by this author writes poetry under the pseudonym Eliot Boliver and lives infear of "the Hangman," his stutter. In his most recent novel, a woman is sold to the "House of Sisters," anabbey whose nuns are forced to bear children used in child sacrifice. That woman, Orito, is a midwife forDr. Marinus, an employee of the Dutch East India Company living at Dejima harbor. This author of TheThousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet wrote the detective story "Half-Lives," about an investigativejournalist researching the Seaboard HYDRA nuclear plant. That story is one of six nested inside each otherthat stretch from the nineteenth century to a post-apocalyptic Hawaii. For 10 points, name this author ofCloud Atlas.
David Mitchell
7

116547-)
This poet wrote, "Wait, I prithee, till I come within earshot of thy hum--all without is martyrdom," in apoem addressing a "yellow-breeched philosopher," "The Humble-Bee." The speaker of another of hispoems states, "I am the doubter and the doubt," before instructing the "meek lover of the good" to "findme, and turn thy back on heaven." This poet of "Brahma" coined the phrase "shot heard round the world"in his "Concord Hymn." For 10 points, name this American poet also known for essays such as"Experience," "The Over-Soul," and "Self-Reliance."
 Ralph Waldo Emerson
7

116554-)
This character joins a group known as the Cadets of Temperance and vows to leave it after the death ofJudge Frazer. He gets out of drinking a foul-tasting "pain killer" by quietly feeding it to a cat. Thischaracter claims that the first two disciples were David and Goliath. This character takes the blame forripping a page out of Mr. Dobbins's anatomy book, and he makes Ben Rogers envious of his job byclaiming that only an expert can complete a certain task. He witnesses another character who murdered Dr.Robinson and frames Muff Potter in a graveyard, and he gets lost in a cave for five days with BeckyThatcher. For 10 points, name this character who lives with his Aunt Polly in a novel by Mark Twain.
Tom Sawyer [or Tom Sawyer]
7

116587-)
This poem addresses "you who have waited for the angry resolution of those desires that should beyours tomorrow" before comparing speculation to a jaguar that "leaps for his own image in a jungle pool."This poem's second stanza describes how "the brute curiosity of an angel's stare" turns the viewer tostone. The speaker of this poem ambiguously asserts, "We shall say only the leaves flying, plunge andexpire," before calling "the gentle serpent, green in the mulberry bush" the "sentinel of the grave whocounts us all." For 10 points, name this ode describing a Civil War cemetery written by Allen Tate.
"Ode to the Confederate Dead"
7

116592-)
In one poem, this poet described the burning feeling of "cold dark deep and absolutely clear" water andobserved, "it is like what we imagine knowledge to be." In another of her poems, two owls fly away fromthe conflagration caused by the crashing of an illegal fire balloon. That poem concludes with the image of"a weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky." This poet of "At the Fishhouses" had a same-sexrelationship with Lota de Macedo Soares in Brazil, which she wrote about in Questions of Travel. This poetadvised the reader to "practice losing farther, losing faster" in a poem about things whose loss "is nodisaster." For 10 points, name this American poet of "The Armadillo" and "One Art."
Elizabeth Bishop
7

116601-)
One poem in this collection asks, "What use is my sense of humor?" before concluding, "We are allold-timers, each of us holds a locked razor." The speaker of another poem in this collection notes, "Allnight I've held your hand" before describing how "your old-fashioned tiradeÂ…breaks like the AtlanticOcean on my head." The speaker climactically hears his "ill-spirit sob in each blood cell" in another poemin this collection also containing "Man and Wife." By dealing with topics such as the author's mentalillness, this collection launched the Confessional poetry movement. For 10 points, name this collectionincluding "Skunk Hour," a major work of Robert Lowell.
Life Studies
7

116621-)
This color appears in the title of a story in which the narrator sees a white patch on a "brute beast" slowly resolve itself into the shape of a gallows. A clock of this color regularly interrupts the musicians in a story in which a dagger-wielding man chases a "mummer" into a room decorated in this color, only to fall dead. In a short story, an alcoholic who buries his wife in his cellar uses a penknife to remove the(*) eye of Pluto, an animal of this color. Another animal of this color is asked "is there balm in Gilead?" as it sits on a bust of Pallas after appearing on a "midnight dreary" while the poet "pondered, weak and weary". For 10 points, name this color of the title cat of a story by Edgar Allen Poe, who used it to describe the "plume" of "The Raven".
black [or ebony; accept "The Black Cat"]
5

116906-)
. In a story by this author, a character who drinks eagles' blood is bound to a tree with two rotting corpses at his feet, after a failed attempt to rescue his pet timber wolf. In another story by this author, a man says "Olives and wax. I never go anyplace without 'em," and is accused of looking at the feet of a woman in an elevator. The title character of a story by this author lives on the Chinese-Paris border, and is a (*) masked criminal described to the Comanche Club by the Chief. Another story by this author describes a conversation on the beach between a child named Sybil, and Seymour, who then shoots himself in his hotel room. For 10 points, name this author of "The Laughing Man" and "A Perfect Day for Bananafish" who also wrote about Holden Caulfield in Catcher in the Rye.
Jerome David Salinger
7

116927-)
In a poem by an author with this surname, the speaker tells his daughter "darling I cannot linger here / in lather like a polar bear." An author with this surname described leading a man wearing a sword-hilt through a maze in a poem that repeatedly mentions "daffodils and squills" blowing in the wind. A poem by an author with this surname depicts a man with "angry wrenlike vigilance" and ends "a (*) savage servility slides by on grease." One of that author's speaker says "I myself am hell" after hearing "a car radio" bleat "Love, Oh careless love." A poet with this surname wrote a poem about an animal who "jabs her wedge head in a cup of sour cream" and "does not scare." For 10 points, give this surname of the author of "Patterns," Amy, and the author of "Skunk Hour," Robert, as well as their ancestor, the author of A Fable for Critics.
Lowell [or Robert Lowell IV; or Amy Lowell; or James Russell Lowell]
7

116954-)
After the protagonist of this novel comes home from work, he argues with his mother over whether he returned before or after two in the morning. In this novel, a lawyer gives a man a wooden cross necklace, only for it to be thrown away when the man sees the Ku Klux Klan. A couple eats fried chicken at Charlie's Kitchen Shack to experience (*) black life in this novel, in which the protagonist forges a ransom note with the signature "Reds". Boris A. Max defends this novel's protagonist, who kills a rat with a skillet in its opening scene. This novel's protagonist kills Jan Erlone's girlfriend Mary Dalton by suffocating her with a pillow. FTP, name this novel about Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright. 
Native Son
5

116956-)
A short story character spends the night with some of these people and later dies with "no hopeful verse upon his tombstone". In a novel about this kind of people, three of them conspire to give Jenny cancer in revenge for her marriage to Darryl Va Horne, who has affairs with Alexandra, Jane and Sukie, residents of a small Rhode Island town. Reverend Hale exclaims "I denounce these proceedings!" in a (*) court case about this kind of people. John Updike wrote a novel about several of these people in Eastwick, Nathaniel Hawthorne's "Young Goodman Brown" is about one of their meetings. Martha Corey and John Proctor are executes on suspicion of being these people at the end of Arthur Miller's The Crucible. For 10 points, name these people who hang out in covens. 
witches
5

116982-)
The line "A cold coming we had of it" opens a poem by this man in which the speaker asks "were we led this way for/ Birth or Death?" That poem's line "no longer at ease here, in the old dispensation" inspired the title of a Chinua Achebe novel. "Three white leopards sat under a juniper-tree" in a poem by this man that begins with the statement "Because I do not hope to (*) turn again". This poet of "Journey of the MAgi" wrote "this is the dead land/ this is the cactus land" in a poem that ends by claiming "this is the way the world ends/ not with a bang but with a whimper." For 10 points, name this American-born poet who defended his conversion to Anglicanism in "Ash Wednesday" and wrote "The Hollow Men"
T.S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot; accept "Journey of the Magi" until "this man" is read] 
5

117026-)
14. In this novel, a man's chin is described as "beardless as Tecumseh's" and compared to the prints of the Reverend Titus Oates. In this novel, a surgeon and a purser discuss whether muscle spasms have any implications on free will. This novel ends with the line "I am sleepy, and the oozy weeds about me twist" as part of a ballad about the title character "in the Darbies." In this novel, a character nicknamed "Jemmy Legs" makes fun of some soup spilled by the protagonist, who takes advice from the scarred, elderly (*) Dansker. One character in this novel declares "Struck dead by an angel of God! Yet the angel must hang!" upon realizing he must kill this novel's title character. This novella centers on the death of the Master-at-Arms of the HMS Bellipotent, John Claggart. For 10 points, name this Herman Melville novella about the title sailor.
Billy Budd, Sailor
7

117039-)
A poem by this author lists "eyes of your failure at piano" and "eyes of the killer Grandma," and addresses a person "without corsets &amp; eyes." This poet wrote "I am obsessed by Time Magazine" in a poem in which he describes being sold garbanzos at a Communist meeting he attended at age seven. One of his poems includes a lengthy footnote that proclaims "the world is holy! the soul is holy!" This poet wrote "Go (*) fuck yourself with your atom bomb" in one poem and wrote about the death of his mother Naomi in another. A poem by this author discusses Moloch in its second section and repeatedly tells Carl Solomon that "I'm with you in Rockland." For 10 points, name this poet of "Kadesh" and "America" who described seeing "the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness" in "Howl."
Allen Ginsberg
7

117053-)
This novel ends with an intricate description of a brook trout. In this novel, several pipe-wielding men lead a caravan of slaves and pregnant women followed by several catamites. This novel's main characters enter a clearing and discover a dead baby roasting on a spit after spending a night with an old man who lies about his name being Ely. In a flashback in this novel, an argument over a gun with only two (*) bullets leads a woman to walk off into the wilderness and kill herself with a piece of obsidian. In this novel, the man makes repeated references to "carrying the fire" to his son, who joins up with a mysterious family at the novel's end after the man dies of an infection. For 10 points, name this novel in which an unnamed father and son travel the title path through a post-apocalyptic landscape, written by Cormac McCarthy.
The Road
7

117088-)
. In a novel by this author, an artist ruins her unfinished painting with a blob of red paint, but it is still bought by a man who is killed while fighting a duel in Switzerland over her. The protagonist of a novel by this author takes a train to see a country landscape which reminds him of a Lambinet painting. That character of this author tells a friend "it's not too late for YOU" at a sculptor's garden party. In a novel by this author, the protagonist loses his love interest to a (*) Carmelite convent and decides not to blackmail the murderous Madame de Bellegarde with a letter provided by Mrs. Bread. This creator of Christopher Newman also wrote about a man who is sent to Paris to bring Chad Newsome back to America. For 10 points, name this author of The American and The Ambassadors.
Henry James
7

117103-)
The narrator of this novel relates how a Miami heart surgeon once made a coat out of dozens of hamster skins and sent it to his high school crush. A character in this novel keeps an Audrey Hepburn scrapbook and is treated for her stutter by the speech therapist Sheila Salzman, who has an affair with her father. This novel's protagonist inherits his father's glove factory and moves to Old Rimrock with his wife, the beauty queen (*) Dawn, who later has an affair with Bill Orcutt. In this novel, the protagonist's daughter converts to Jainism and lives in squalor in the Newark factory district after protesting against the Vietnam War by setting off a bomb in a post office. For 10 points, name this novel in which Nathan Zuckerman learns about the life of Seymour "the Swede" Levov, written by Philip Roth.
American Pastoral
7

117116-)
At a dance in this play, a drunk fiddler plays "Pop Goes the Weasel" repeatedly until he collapses in exhaustion. A character in this play comments on an eerie feeling upon entering a parlor, where she lustfully kisses another character and claims to be a hundred times more loving than his mother. This play ends with the Sheriff exclaiming "Wished I owned it!" about its setting after arresting two characters. A character in this play pulls a sack of gold from under the (*) floorboards of his house to give to his step brothers so they will renounce their claim to the family's farm. In this play, Abbie eventually smothers the child she has with Eben, who intends to get revenge on his step father Ephraim for working his mother to death. For 10 points, name this Hippolytus-inspired play centering on the Cabot family, written by Eugene O'Neill.
Desire Under the Elms
7

117134-)
In Mohsin Hamid's The Reluctant Fundamentalist, this place is symbolically the location of "U.S.," where the protagonist Changez works. Another book set in this place popularized the term "Big Swinging Dick." The lawyer Tommy Weiss defends a character who works in this specific location, and whose life is ruined by articles published in The City Light. That character who works in this location calls himself the "Master of the Universe," but sees his life fall apart after his car (*) hits a black teenager named Henry Lamb. This setting of Michael Lewis's Liar's Poker appears in the subtitle of a story about a former employee of the Dead Letter Office who would prefer not to do work. For 10 points, name this place where Sherman McCoy works in Bonfire of the Vanities and where Bartleby works in "Bartleby, the Scrivener," a New York street.
Wall Street [prompt on "New York City"]
7

117166-)
This poem imagines a "peanut-crunching crowd" that comes around to witness the speaker's "big strip tease." The speaker of this poem claims "there is a charge for the hearing of my heart" after hearing the shout of "A miracle!" that knocks her out. The title figure of this poem is compared to a cat in that she has "nine times to die." After being compared to a closed seashell covered in worms, the speaker of this poem claims that "dying is an art" and that (*) "I do it exceptionally well." This poem describes a figure with a face as "a fine Jew linen" and skin "bright as a Nazi lampshade." This poem opens "I have done it again. One year in ten" and was written four months before its author committed suicide by suffocating herself in her oven. For 10 points, name this Sylvia Plath poem collected in Ariel, whose title figure "eats men like air."
"Lady Lazarus"
7

117170-)
The speaker of a poem by this author witnesses "a living mite with inclinations it could call its own" run across the page he is writing on and refuses to crush it. This poet described seeking out "the last remaining aster flower to carry again to you" in a poem about a walk through "the mowing field." The speaker of another poem by this author averts his eyes when passing "the watchman on his beat," because he is "unwilling to explain." This poet of "A Considerable Speck" wrote a poem about a figure who witnesses "One luminary (*) clock against the sky" and has "outwalked the furthest city light." The speaker of one of his poems hears "the sweep of easy wind and downy flake" and has "miles to go before I sleep." For 10 points, name this poet of "Acquainted with the Night" and "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."
Robert Frost
7

117189-)
A member of this family narrates a chapter which reveals that she often went to a spring where she could "be quiet and hate" her students and frequently enjoyed beating them with a switch. A member of this family is denied access to a ten-dollar abortifacient by the devout druggist Moseley. A carpenter from this family has his leg encased in cement after being kicked by his sister's horse while (*) fording a river. The youngest member of this family inadvertently drills two holes in the face of another member of this family before asserting that she "is a fish." This family's patriarch Anse leads them on a journey to Jefferson to procure a set of false teeth instead of honoring his dead wife Addie's wish to be buried there. For 10 points, name this family that features in Faulkner's As I Lay Dying.
Bundrens
7

117195-)
Seven objects in this story are compared to "slender angels" that the protagonist hopes will save him. At one point in this story, the protagonist takes a hundred paces around a room before tripping on the torn hem of his robe and knocking himself out. At the end of this story, the protagonist recalls hearing "a loud blast of many trumpets," signaling that General Lasalle had entered the city. The protagonist of this story gets away after managing to rub a piece of meat on the (*) surcingle around his hand, which was then consumed by a horde of rats. The protagonist of this story had been condemned by the Inquisition and tied to a rack near the title swinging object. For 10 points, name this short story by Edgar Allen Poe, named for the two torture devices that the protagonist eventually escapes.
"The Pit and the Pendulum"
7

117213-)
1. This poem describes a figure who "looks the whole world in the face, For he owes not any man." The title character of this poem wipes tears from his eyes in church after recalling the voice of his deceased daughter. The poem "From my Arm-Chair" was written by the author of this poem to commemorate the gift of a wooden chair he received in response to this poem. The labor of the the title character of this poem is witnessed by (*) "children coming home from school" who "catch the burning sparks that fly, Like chaff from a threshing-floor." The title character of this poem is described as a "mighty man" with "large and sinewy hands" who works "under a spreading chestnut-tree." For 10 points, name this Henry Wadsworth Longfellow poem about an ironworker.
"The Village Blacksmith"
7

117233-)
This character recalls falling back asleep after waking and seeing two giant rats staring at her from a window sill. After this character does an underwater somersault, another girl steals three pennies from her. In a dream, this character lights all the candles in a red room. This character watches a green parrot burn to death when a mob of former slaves set fire to an estate at Coulibri, and she later gets a love potion from (*) Christophine while living in Massacre. She tears a wedding veil in half after evading her drunk keeper, Grace Poole. This character is called Antoinette Cosway in one novel, and in another novel she dies after burning down Thornfield. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Jean Rhys's Wide Sargasso Sea, the "madwoman in the attic" and the first wife of Rochester in Jane Eyre.
Bertha Mason [accept either name; or Antoinette; or Antoinette Cosway]
7

117247-)
This poet wrote about a woman who is disappointed when she doesn't find "marble well-governed cities" and "athletes at their games" among the scenes forges into a poem's title object. This man, who collaborated with Chester Kallman on the libretto for Stravinsky's The Rake's Progress, claimed that "I and the public know" that "Those to whom evil is done/ Do evil in return"in a poem whose speaker sits "in one of the (*) dives on Fifty-second Street". Another of his poems laments "I though that love would last forever: I was wrong" in describing a man whose death prompts the instruction "Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone". For 10 points, name this Anglo-American poet of the "The Shield of Achilles", "Funeral Blues" and "September 1, 1939".
W.H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden] 
5

117255-)
A poem set in this city is about woman who "whispered a song" to "Mal Waldron/ and everyone and I stopped breathing". The author of "The Day Lady Died" and Lunch Poems was part of a "school" named for this city that also included the author of "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror". A long poem about a structure in this modern city includes sections titled "Ave Maria" and "Powhatan's Daughter". Frank O'Hara ad John (*) Asbery worked in this city, which is home to the title structure of Hart Crane's "the Bridge" Another landmark in this displays the text of a sonnet called "The New Colossus"by Emma Lazarus. For 10 points, name this city, where the lines "Give me tired, your poor, your huddled masses" appears on the Statue of Liberty
New York City [or NYC]
5

117277-)
One member of this family uses an analogy where if B picks up A's hat, B should not examine A's face for gratitude to explain why he does not expect his family to miss him, and requests books by authors like Guy de Maupassant in "Hapworth 16, 1924". Eloise Wengler regrets marrying her husband Lew rather than a member of this family named Walt. Lane Coutell dates a member of this family who repeats the (*) Jesus prayer over and over, and another member goes swimming at a beach with Sybil Carpenter before shooting himself. This family's members include Franny, Zooey, and Seymour, the last of whom appears in "Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenter" and "A Perfect Day for Bananafish". For 10 points, name this literary family created by J.D. Salinger.
The Glass Family
5

117298-)
The protagonist of this play brings his sons a punching bag signed by Gene Tunney as a present. One of that man's sons later steals a pen from a potential employer. This play's protagonist is denied a job at the New York office by Howard Wagner. Other characters in this play include a character who lets a star football player cheat off his math homework, Bernard, and a character who walks in on the protagonist cheating on his wife Linda. The titular car accident occurs because the protagonist believes that his suicide will bring his family insurance money. For 10 points, name this play in which Biff confronts his father, the businessman Willy Loman, by Arthur Miller.
Death of a Salesman
4

117320-)
One object in this story has the name Dillingham written out in full on a letterbox, which its owners wish to change to the more modest "D." The author of this work claimed that if the protagonists had lived next to King Solomon and the Queen of Sheba, the latter would have been put to shame. One character in this story goes to Madame Sofronie's, requiring her to curl her hair afterwards. At the end of this story, the narrator explains the origin of the Christmas present. For 10 points, name this short story in which Jim and Della sell their watch and hair to buy each other a watch chain and a comb, written by O. Henry.
"The Gift of the Magi"
4

117340-)
One of this author's characters recites the Lord's Prayer with every noun replaced by the word nada. Another character asks "the American" to "please please please please please stop talking," in an argument about abortion. This author of "A Clean Well-Lighted Place" wrote a novel in which the protagonist escapes "battle police" after surviving the Battle of Caporetto. That work ends with Catherine Barkley dying in childbirth and her lover Frederic Henry walking out into the rain. This man also wrote of Santiago catching a giant marlin that gets eaten by sharks. For 10 points, name this author of "Hills Like White Elephants," A Farewell to Arms, and The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest (Miller) Hemingway
4

117364-)
This author opened a critical guide to appreciating literature with the "parable of the sunfish". He reused the meter from his translation of The Seafarer to create a version of the nekuia from the Odyssey for a poem that precedes one in which the speaker tells Robert Browning to "hang it all" because "there can be but the one Sordello". This author of The ABC of Reading wrote about a man whose "true (*) Penelope was Flaubert" and who seeks to "resuscitate the dead art of poetry" in his poem "Hugh Selwyn Mauberley". Sections named for John Adams, Pisa, and a "Rock-Drill" are included in a collection by this author, whose study of Chinese characters inspired his development of Imagism. For 10 points, name this fascist American poet of The Cantos.
Ezra Pound [or Ezra Weston Loomis Pound] 
5

117374-)
In one novel by this title, CIA agent Jack Lovett is killed and the wife of California Senator HarryVictor retrieves his body. In addition to that (*) Joan Didion book, this title names a novel that waspublished anonymously on April Fool's Day and depicts the pursuit of Senator Ratfcliffe by Madeleine Lee.For 10 pointsÂ—identify this title which comes from a form of government, used by Henry Adams for thatnovel.
Democracy
8

117416-)
One character in this novel takes first pick of cakes from his Aunt Chloe, and later rides after this novel's title character to hand him a dollar. Two women in this novel hide in a man's attic and pretend to be ghosts, and those women later meet Madame de Thoux, the sister of George Harris. Another character in this novel is chased by Marks and Loker across the Ohio River, which had frozen over. George Shelby helps Cassy and Emmeline escape from slavery in this novel, and the titular character saves Eva St. Claire from a river. For 10 points, name this novel in which Simon Legree mistreats the title slave, written by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly
4

117429-)
Once character in this play admonishes another character not to push with his fingers, and instead to use a crust of bread. When the son of the central family decides to pay the dues to join the Merchant Marine, the family's lights go off in the middle of a crucial dinner. One character skips school to visit the zoo, and that character's mother is delighted to learn that she had a crush in high school. The climax of this play comes when Jim O'Connor steps on a toy unicorn. For 10 points, name this play in which Tom and Amanda fight about a potential "gentleman caller" for Laura Wingfield, by Tennessee Williams.
The Glass Menagerie
4

117441-)
The protagonist of a novel by this author has a sister who goes into a near-catatonic state named for the "13th Zodiac sign" of the Starfish. A mother discovers an African-American washerwoman's baby buried alive in her garden in a novel by this author in which an Eastern-European immigrant who makes paper silhouettes becomes a "baron" in the animation industry. This man based Paul and Rochelle Isaacson's (*) execution on that of Ethel and Julius Rosenberg for his novel The Book of Daniel. After his Model T Ford is destroyed by firemen, Coalhouse Walker becomes a terrorist in a novel by this author that includes historical characters such as J.P. Morgan and Harry Houdini. For 10 points, name this American author of Ragtime.
E. L. Doctorow [or Edgar Lawrence Doctorow]
5

117460-)
Near the end of this novel, the protagonist makes a papal sign of the cross while overlooking a beach. A woman in this novel intentionally causes her husband to drive their car off the road, then proceeds to laugh maniacally as he checks on the children. After punching several Italian taxi drivers, the protagonist of this novel is bailed out of jail by Baby, whose sister later seduces the war hero Tommy Barban. In this novel, the young star of the film Daddy's Girl, (*) Rosemary Hoyt, loses her virginity to a psychiatrist who married one of his schizophrenic patients. The tumultuous relationship of this novel's central couple was based on that of the author and his wife Zelda. For 10 points, name this novel about Nicole and Dick Diver, by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Tender is the Night
5

117477-)
A poem by E. A. Robinson refers to this figure as "elemental when he died, as he was ancient at his birth." That poem is "The Master." Another poem about this figure asks a gray-brown bird to "sing out! Sing out" from "the swamps, the recesses." The speaker of that poem notes, "the great star early droop'd in the western sky in the night, and [I] thought of him I love." In another poem about this figure, the narrator announces that "the ship has weathered every rack, the prize we sought is won" before screaming "O heart! heart! O drops of bleeding red!" For 10 points, name this subject of "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" and "O Captain! My Captain!"
Abraham Lincoln
4

117485-)
A poem by this author describes a group which does not care if the "moon rattles like a fragment of angry candy." In a poem by this author, "an host of overjoyed noncoms" make use of "brushes recently employed" in a "muddy toiletbowl." This poet wrote of people who "believe in Christ and Longfellow, both dead" in "the Cambridge ladies who live in furnished souls." In another poem, he described a man who was "more brave than me: more (*) blond than you" and "whose warmest heart recoiled at war." Several variants on the line "sun moon stars rain" appear in a poem by this man about a person who marries "noone" in a place with "up so floating many bells down." For 10 points, name this American poet of "I sing of olaf glad and big" and "anyone lived in a pretty how town."
E. E. Cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings]
5

117490-)
A character in this short story attempts to make a portrait on a plate of metal, but he throws the metal into a jar of acid when it comes out "blurred and indefinable." Another character in this story is unable to forget hearing the words "It is in her heart now; we must have it out!", which her husband had spoken aloud while dreaming. Late in this story, the "yellow blotches" on a geranium are (*) removed by a potion prepared with the assistance of Aminadab, which unfortunately for its inventor causes the death of his wife Georgiana. For 10 points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne short story about Aylmer, who tries to remove the title imperfection, shaped like a small crimson hand, from his wife's cheek.
"The Birthmark"
5

117496-)
In this novel, a waitress discounts candy to a penny and receives a large tip from a pair of truckers for her kindness. In a different scene, the Wilsons lend their tent to help make a death more comfortable and get theircar fixed in gratitude. A riot at a dance is preempted in a government camp, but trouble emerges as the men work as strike-breakers picking peaches. A former preacher is killed after becoming a union organizer and while the protagonist avenges him, he is forced to leave his family. For 10 points, name this novel featuring Jim Casy and Tom that is about the Joad Family's journey to California after the Dust Bowl, a depiction of the Great Depression written by John Steinbeck.
The Grapes of Wrath
4

117522-)
A Parsi servant in this work predicts that two hearses driving across the sea will serve as an omen for another character's death. In addition to Fedallah, other men in this book include the tiny Pip and the gigantic Daggoo. One character in this novel keeps a strange coffin in the shape of a canoe, and another character nails a golden coin to the mast of a ship. The Rachel saves the narrator of this novel, who began his life as a schoolteacher. That narrator meets the the harpooner Queequeg before setting sail on the Pequod. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Ishmael, in which Captain Ahab is destroyed by the titular white whale, by Herman Melville.
Moby-Dick: or, the White Whale
4

117537-)
In one story by this author, Kidd the Pirate's buried treasure tempts the title character into making a deal with Old Scratch. This author also worked on a biography of Christopher Columbus and told stories about a Moorish palace. In addition to The Devil and Tom Walker and Tales From the Alhambra, this author wrote a story in which the protagonist encounters the ghosts of Hendrik Hudson's crew, and in another told of a man who loved Katrina Von Tassel and was tormented by Brom Bones. For 10 points, name this author who told of Ichabod Crane and a man who sleeps for twenty years in The Legend of Sleepy Hollow and Rip Van Winkle.
Washington Irving
4

117571-)
In one episode from this novel, the narrator is tricked into jumping onto an electrified carpet in order to pick up gold coins. The narrator attends a college financed by a man obsessed with his dead daughter, Mr. Norton, and is later kicked out of college by a man who told him he was a "nobody," Dr. Bledsoe. The narrator is repeatedly mistaken for Rinehart, a black man who sacrifices his skin color to fit into white society. The death of Tod Clifton sparks a riot in Harlem which leads one character to rename himself Ras the Destroyer. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by a nameless black man and written by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [Do not accept "The Invisible Man."]
4

117577-)
James Russell Lowell wrote that the author of this poem and this poem's subject were "three fifths genius" and "two fifths sheer fudge," and the author of this poem explained its didactic nature in his "The Philosophy of Composition." The speaker of this poem laments that "On the morrow he will leave me, as my hopes have flown before," and asks the subject "what thy lordly name is on the night's Plutonian shore." That subject stands upon a "pallid bust of Pallas" and plagues the speaker with memories of his "lost Lenore." For 10 points, name this poem whose title figure "quoth 'Nevermore,'" an Edgar Allan Poe poem about a big black bird.
"The Raven"
4

117596-)
In a sequel, this character fell in love with his nurse Melissa Macintosh. In the book he originally appears in, this character fears that some blue smoke will kill him, but then learns it is coming from a pipe. This character is later surprised to be arrested instead of that pipe smoker, who rapes Michaela and tosses her out a window. This character starts to care more about his own safety after a failed attempt to save Snowden's life, and he eventually goes AWOL in Rome with Milo Minderbinder. Name this bombardier who tries to avoid dangerous missions during World War II in Joseph Heller's Catch-22.
John Yossarian
3

117641-)
One character in this novel, Dr. Peabody, is blamed by a young boy for killing another character, and that boy accidentally bores two holes in that dead character's face. Another character in this novel receives ten dollars from the farmer Lafe to receive an abortion, but ends up seduced by a pharmacist. One chapter in this work consists entirely of the words, "My mother is a fish." The patriarch of the central family takes a horse from Jewel and money from Cash to pay for the central trip to bury his wife. For 10 points, name this novel in which Dewey Dell, Darl, Vardaman, and their father Anse try to bury the deceased Addie Bundren, written by William Faulkner.
As I Lay Dying
4

117673-)
Several characters in this novel all die in a great oak chair beneath a portrait of a prominent ancestor. Minor characters in this novel include Ned Higgins, who eats gingerbread cookies, and the ghost Alice, who died of shame after being hypnotized in an attempt to locate deeds to Indian land. The patriarch of the central family in this novel was cursed by the wizard Matthew Maule. Jaffrey is the uncle of Hepzibah and Clifford, and the youngest member of the central family, Phoebe, marries a daguerreotypist named Holgrave. For 10 points, name this novel about the titular home of the Pyncheon family, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The House of the Seven Gables
4

117679-)
In one novel by this author, the necrophiliac Lester Ballard preys on members of a nearby town. In another novel, Gene Harrogate has sex with watermelons, and the protagonist lives on a boat in the Tennessee river. In addition to Child of God and Suttree, this author wrote a novel in which Judge Holden torments the Glanton Gang and The Kid. This man also created a bounty hunter named Anton Chigurh who hunts down a man who unwittingly took money from drug dealers. For 10 points, name this novelist who wrote about characters like John Grady Cole and Llewellyn Moss in books like Blood Meridian, All the Pretty Horses, and No Country for Old Men.
Cormac (Charles) McCarthy
4

117696-)
French thinker Jacques Derrida critiqued Jacques Lacan's reading of this literary work in the essay "The Purveyor of Truth," arguing that the title object represents a castration of the king, since it may include evidence of the queen's affair. This short story's protagonist wears green glasses so he can examine Minster D-'s chamber to find the title object, which he sees hanging in a card rack in plain sight. The last of three tales featuring C. Auguste Dupin [doo-PAN], FTP what short story about a stolen missive is by Edgar Allan Poe?
"The Purloined Letter"
6

117719-)
This author wrote "This loaf's big with its yeasty rising" in a poem that begins "I'm a riddle in nine syllables" and is generically titled "Metaphors." One poem by this author ends with a reference to the mythical phoenix: "Out of the ash/I rise with my red hair/And I eat men like air." Another poem describes a "black shoe" in which the speaker has "lived like a foot"; the title addressee of that poem is "big as a Frisco seal" and called "Panzer man," leading to the observation that "Every woman adores a fascist." FTP what author of the poems "Lady Lazarus" and "Daddy" killed herself in 1963?
Sylvia Plath
6

117726-)
In the preface to one edition of this work, omitted from later editions, its author claims that "the genius of the United States is . . . always in its common people." That philosophy is illustrated by the lines "The mason singing his [song] as he makes ready for work . . . [and] the ploughboy's on his way in the morning," which come from its poem "I Hear America Singing." The later section of this work titled "Calamus" contains much of this work's erotic imagery; other sections include "Children of Adam" and "Drum-Taps," the latter of which contains poems written during the US Civil War. FTP what is this poetry collection including works like "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry" and "Song of Myself," by Walt Whitman?
Leaves of Grass
6

117737-)
This author wrote of a man "who sought Heaven under a mountain of stone" in "Sakyamuni Coming Out from the Mountain." This poet wrote of "the great dream of Me or China, or you and a phantom Russia" in a poem that ends, "Love, your mother'/which is NaomiÂ—." He asked, "what sphinx of cement and aluminum bashed open their skulls?" in his best-known poem. He mused that it is "strange to think of you, gone without corsets and eyes" in his "Kaddish," and  opened his best-known work, "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness." For 10 points, identify this assertively bearded Beat poet of "Howl."
Allen Ginsberg
6

117755-)
In one work by this author, Dr. Austin Sloper continually attempts to undermine the engagement between his daughter Catherine and Morris Townsend. In another book by this author, Lambert Strether is sent to Europe to retrieve Chad Newsome. This author of Washington Square wrote another novel in which Maggie Verver suspects her husband Amerigo's infidelity after purchasing the title object. This author of The Ambassadors and The Golden Bowl created a character that has a fling with Frederick Winterbourne and dies of Roman fever, while in another work, the ghost of Peter Quint torments the children Flora and Miles. FTP, name this author of Daisy Miller and The Turn of the Screw.
Henry James
6

117763-)
This character's father chases him with a knife while calling him the "Angel of Death," leading this character to fake his death by spreading pig's blood in a cabin. A companion tells this character he'll get bad luck from handling a snake skin; this character leaves that skin near that companion, who is then bitten by a rattlesnake. This character later decides his black companion is "white inside" because he is willing to risk capture to save this character's friend Tom after he's shot in the leg. Deciding he doesn't want to be "sivilize[d]" by his Aunt Sally, this character "light[s] out for the territories." FTP what icon of American literature is friend to the slave Jim and Tom Sawyer?
Huckleberry Finn
6

117774-)
One writer with this surname collected poems like "Chaplinesque" and "For the Marriage of Faustus and Helen" in the book White Buildings, along with a long 1930 poem that includes the sections "Atlantis" and "Cutty Sark." Another man with this surname wrote the poetry collection The Black Riders. The author of the long poem "The Bridge" shares this surname with the author a short story in which The Swede dies soon after a fight with Johnny at the title location, the Blue Hotel. FTP what surname was shared by the poet Hart and the author of The Red Badge of Courage, Stephen?
Crane
6

117778-)
Vietnam veteran Norman Bowker performs this action in the story "Speaking of Courage" from Tim O'Brien's The Things They Carried. After describing how the title fish can eat up to 78 bananas to Sybil Carpenter, Seymour Glass carries out this action in Salinger's "A Perfect Day for Bananafish." The people of Tilbury Town seem surprised that the title figure, who "glittered when he walked" and was "richer than a king," performed this action in the poem "Richard Cory." FTP, Edna Pontellier carries out what action at the end of Kate Chopin's The Awakening when she walks into the Gulf of Mexico?
suicide (accept specific forms early, like "hanging oneself" for Bowker, "shooting 	oneself in the head" for Seymour and Richard Cory); anti-prompt at end, though)
6

117787-)
This literary character bursts into tears upon seeing the large collection of English dress shirts owned by the title character of the novel in which she appears. Earlier, she had briefly thrown away a $350,000 pearl necklace after getting a letter from that title character. Described as having a voice "full of money," near the end of the novel in which this character appears she kills Myrtle Wilson, her husband's mistress, with her car. Perhaps represented by the green light on the end of her dock to the protagonist, FTP what cousin of Nick Carraway is the ideal love interest of Jay Gatsby?
Daisy Buchanan 
6

117799-)
One literary character with this profession was a "Total Demoralizator" in Annexia before meeting William Lee; that character's name is Benway in the novel Naked Lunch. The character Daneeka is a member of this profession and finally utilizes his skills after Snowden's death in Catch-22. Another character is the only practitioner of this job in fictional Wheatsylvania, North Dakota, where his wife Leora's family lives. FTP, Sinclair Lewis's character Martin Arrowsmith is a member of what profession, in which he tries to treat an epidemic of plague on the island of St. Hubert?
doctor
6

117814-)
Medbourne, Gascoigne, and Colonel Killigrew compete for the affections of Widow Wycherly after briefly having their youth restored in this author's story "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment." The wedding of Edgar and Edith is celebrated by dancing around the title structure before Puritans under John Endicott arrive and have the celebrants flogged in this author's story "The Maypole of Merrymount." Those stories were collected in this author's Twice-Told Tales, which was followed in 1846 by the collection Mosses from an Old Manse. That collection included this author's story "Young Goodman Brown." FTP what American author wrote The House of the Seven Gables and The Scarlet Letter?
Nathaniel Hawthorne
6

117819-)
In a 1926 work by this author, a Greek mask is worn first by Dion and later Billy as both live with Margaret. Another play by this author of The Great God Brown that uses masks is 1928's story of Nina Leeds, Strange Interlude. His autobiographical play set in August, 1912, takes place in real time and sees Edmund tell his mother, Mary, a morphine addict, that he has tuberculosis. The story of the Tyrone family is told in Long Day's Journey into Night, FTP, by what American playwright who also wrote The Iceman Cometh?
Eugene O'Neill
6

117834-)
This poet described how the "dancers go round, they go round/and around" to the "tweedle of bagpipes" in his poem on a Breughel painting, "The Kermess." This poet's desire to focus poetry on the concrete is embodied in his line "No ideas but in things" in a long poem named for his hometown. Another poem describes as "so sweet/and so cold" the plums his addressee was saving for breakfast. FTP name this author of "Paterson" who wrote that "so much depends/upon/a red wheel/barrow."
William Carlos Williams
6

117837-)
One character in this work is cared for by a medicine woman known as "M'Dear," and dies while eating peach cobbler. Aside from Auntie Jimmy, other characters in this work include the prostitutes Maginot Line, China, and Poland.  In this work, Claudia and Frieda sacrifice money they were saving for a bicycle in order to plant marigold seeds in the hope that an unborn child will not die if they bloom.  Most of this work's chapters are titled after passages from Dick and Jane.  The protagonist of this work is raped by her father Cholly, which causes her to believe that she has acquired a long sought-after quality.  Pecola Breedlove desires to be white and possess the titular feature in, FTP, what novel by Toni Morrison?
The Bluest Eye
6

117849-)
Herman Melville's poem "The Portent" describes this man's "streaming beard" and calls him the "meteor of the war." Lydia Marie Child wrote a poem about this man "and the Colored Child," depicting his kiss of an African-American child also shown in a Thomas Hovenden painting of this man on his way to his hanging. Russell Banks's novel Cloudsplitter uses this figure's son Owen to narrate his father's killing of five people at Pottawottamie Creek in Kansas. FTP a 19th-century marching song describes what abolitionist's body "a mouldrin' in the grave" after his execution for taking the arsenal at Harper's Ferry?
John Brown
6

117863-)
This Southern author described the looming influence of Faulkner by writing that "No one wants their mule and wagon stalled on the same tracks the Dixie Limited is roaring down." In one story this author depicted a Bible salesman whose valise [vuh-LEES] actually contains whiskey, pornographic playing cards, and a condom; that character, Manley Pointer, steals the artificial leg of the atheist Hulga in the story "Good Country People." In another story the unnamed Grandmother is shot three times after reaching out in empathy toward The Misfit. FTP what Southern Gothic author of "The Life You Save May Be Your Own" also wrote "A Good Man Is Hard to Find"?
Flannery O'Connor
6

117871-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist drowns in a frozen river after spurning Harry Gordon's marriage proposal. In another of this author's books, Enid Royce leaves her husband Claude Wheeler, who later enlists in WWI. This author of Lucy Gayheart and One of Ours wrote about Alexandra Bergson in O, Pioneers! In another novel by this author, the French clergymen Joseph Vaillant and Jean Marie Latour travel for over a year to take over a diocese in New Mexico. This author also wrote about a character that works for Wick Cutter, marries Anton Cuzak, and is saved from a giant snake by Jim Burden. FTP, name this author of Death Comes for the Archbishop and My Antonia.
Willa Cather
6

117895-)
This US state is the setting of a scene in a novel in which a revival tent preacher is accused of raping a goat and a young girl by the hulking, hairless Judge Holden. Jimmy Blevins' horse is awarded to John Grady Cole at the end of a novel that begins and ends on a ranch in this state. Blood Meridian and All the Pretty Horses are novels partly set in this state, as is a novel in which Llewelyn Moss's discovery of over two million dollars at the bloody scene of a drug deal gone wrong leads to his wife's killing by Anton Chigurh. FTP in what state did Cormac McCarthy set No Country for Old Men, which ends with Carla Jean's murder in El Paso?
Texas
6

117911-)
One recurring character created by this author is a folk priestess named Aunt Esther who dies at age 366 in his work King Hedley II after first appearing in his earlier work Two Trains Running. Ester became the main character of this author's work Gem of the Ocean, which is set in the same northeastern city as seven other works by this playwright. The last work of that cycle of plays, Radio Golf, sees African-American entrepreneur Harmond Wilks consider tearing down Ester's historic house. FTP what African-American playwright's Pittsburgh Cycle includes Ma Rainey's Black Bottom and Fences?
August Wilson
6

117918-)
The last quatrain of this sixteen-line poem uses four repetitions of single-syllable words ending with the "-eep" sound. The persona implies the poem takes place on the winter solstice, "the darkest evening of the year." The speaker's horse "gives his harness bells a shake/To ask if there is some mistake," as the speaker has stopped "without a farmhouse near" to watch a neighbor's "woods fill up with snow." Ending with a repetition of the line "And miles to go before I sleep" is what poem, FTP, by Robert Frost in which the speaker sees that the "woods are lovely, dark and deep"?
"Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening"
6

117929-)
One novel by this author sees David narrate the story of his homosexual relationship with the title character on the night before the latter is executed. That novel appeared six years before an essay describing this author's early life as a preacher and religion's role in the Civil Rights movement, published in The New Yorker as "Down at the Cross," and then combined with another work in a two-part collection called The Fire Next Time. This author's first novel portrays the young street preacher John Grimes' growing disillusionment with his faith. FTP what African-American author wrote Giovanni's Room and Go Tell It on the Mountain?
James Baldwin
6

118264-)
A character in this novel dies shortly after learning of the death of his favorite daughter Una. Another of its characters becomes rich selling beans in an effort motivated by his father's failure in a refrigerated lettuce-shipping venture. In this novel, the cook Lee tells a story about his Chinese relatives learning Hebrew to study the Bible, during which they discover that the word (*) timshel translates as "thou mayest". Samuel Hamilton attempts to help the protagonist of this novel, whose antagonist poisons the madame Faye and takes over a brothel after abandoning her family, including her sons Cal and Aron. Its protagonist marries the villainous Cathy Ames before moving to the Salinas Valley. For 10 points, name this novel about Adam Trask, by John Steinbeck.
East of Eden
5

118493-)
John Callahan assembled this book for publication, and it opens with a man hallucinating that theeagle is flying off the Great Seal of the U.S. Alonzo (*) Hickman's attempts to prevent the assassinationof Adam Sunraider fail, but we learn that the racist Senator is actually half-black. For 10 pointsÂ— identifythis unfinished Ralph Ellison novel, which takes its title from a holiday celebrating the emancipation ofslaves.
Juneteenth
8

118534-)
The people of Mottson try to turn away an attempt to buy cement in this novel, and the ministerWhitfield is the real father of (*) Jewel in this book. Darl is imprisoned as an arsonist and Dr. Peabody isunable to save a patient in this story, being blamed for the death by Vardaman. Cash makes a coffin andDewey Dell tries to abort her pregnancy in, for 10 pointsÂ— what Faulkner novel about an attempt to buryAddie Bundren?
As I Lay Dying
8

118550-)
This author's major work contains a foreword of letters by George Lowther and Amy Post. Shedescribes being reunited with Benny and Ellen while employed by Mrs. Bruce. Despite the (*)freedom of her Aunt Martha, she was abused by Doctor Flint and had children with Mr. Sands beforehiding in a secret room above a shed. For 10 pointsÂ— name this author who used the pseudonym LindaBrent to write Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl. 
Harriet Jacobs (accept Linda Brent before it is read) 
8

118557-)
A poem by this author calls a woman a "thin brown mouse... living all alone/In this cold house" and contrasts her with a woman who "stayed home and scraped life with a fine tooth comb." This author of "Sadie and Maud" set a poem in a "rented back room" inhabited by two women "who have lived their day" and are "Mostly Good", for whom "dinner is a casual affair". In addition to "The (*) Bean Eaters", her works include a collection of poems about a girl growing up in Bronzeville called Annie Allen. Her most famous poem is about a group of pool players at "The Golden Shovel" who "lurk late," "strike straight," "jazz June," and "die soon". For 10 points, name this first African-American Pulitzer Prize winner, the poet of "We Real Cool."
 Gwendolyn Brooks [or Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks]
None

118576-)
A work by this man claims that "life is a self-evolving" one of the title things, of which the horizon isthe second and the eye the first. This author examined "essences unchanged by man" that make up the "NOT ME" in an eight-part essay, and criticized "faith that stands on authority" in an essay about a concept "within which every man's particular being is contained." He wrote a passage in which "all mean egotism vanishes" as the speaker becomes like a (*) "transparent eyeball". In another essay, he asserted that "a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds" and urged the reader to "trust thyself". For 10 points, name this author of "Circles", "The Over-Soul", and "Self-Reliance", whose essay "Nature" outlines the foundations of Transcendentalism.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
5

118614-)
An author who claimed that "imagination is the only weapon in" these places wrote a novel partly titled for them in which Thomas gets a magic guitar from Robert Johnson. In a novel set in one of these locations called Turtle Mountain, Lipsha uses male and female goose hearts in an attempt to make a drug that will disrupt the love triangle between Marie, Lulu, and Nector. Abel stabs Juan Reyes to death after returning to one of these places in a novel by (*) N. Scott Momaday, while a novel titled after their "blues" follows includes characters from the collection The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven by Sherman Alexie. For 10 points, name these communities that include the setting of Louise Erdrich's Love Medicine, a novel about Ojibwa people.
Indian reservations [or the rez; accept Reservation Blues]
5

118627-)
When Willard Phillips first read this poem out loud, Richard Henry Dana responded that "no one on this side of the Atlantic is capable of writing such verses". This poem describes how "the rude swain turns with his share and treads upon" the "sluggish clod". "Patriarchs of the infant world" "and hoary seers of ages past" will be joined by the addressee of this poem, who is told to "lose thyself in the continuous woods where rolls the (*) Oregon" and to "pierce the Barcan wilderness". This poem advises its addressee to "go not like the quarry slave at night" when joining "the innumerable caravan", but to go "like one who . . . lies down to pleasant dreams." For 10 points, name this meditation on death written by William Cullen Bryant.
"Thanatopsis"
5

118638-)
This author wrote about identifying with his young son upon returning to a camp in Maine in his Harper's essay "Once More to the Lake". The protagonist of a novel by this man rescues the drowning Applegate Skinner and learns to play taps and reveille ("rev-ah-lee") while working at Camp Kookooskoos. Sam Beaver befriends the mute Louis, whose father gives him the title (*) instrument, in a novel by this man, who also wrote an addendum to a book by another author featuring advice like "Write with nouns and verbs." The title character of one of his novels weaves the words "Some Pig" to keep Wilbur from being slaughtered. For 10 points, name this New Yorker writer who revised Strunk's The Elements of Style and wrote The Trumpet of the Swan and Charlotte's Web.
E.B. White [or Elwyn Brooks White]
5

118648-)
This poet wrote that "Love is a ripe plum growing on a purple tree" in his "Love Song for Lucinda". Another of his poems is about a student who admits "I guess you learn from me--although you're older" to a man who commands "let that page come out of you--then, it will be true". The speaker of a poem by this man asks "The free? Who said the free? Not me?" in a poem beginning "Let (*) America be America again". In a poem by this man, the speaker claims to have seen bodies of water as "ancient as the world and older than the flow of human blood", including the "Mississippi, when Abe Lincoln went down to New Orleans". For 10 points, name this poet of "Theme for English B" and "The Negro Speaks of Rivers", a major figure in the Harlem Renaissance.
Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes]
5

118659-)
The speaker of a section of T.S. Eliot's The Waste Land recounts going out to do this activity with her cousin, who assuages her fear by saying, "Marie, Marie, hold on tight." The groomsmen Peter and Pavel are the only survivors of a wolf attack that occurs while performing this activity after a wedding in a story Antonia Shimerda relates to Jim Burden. In another novel, the title character and his crush take part in this activity after reminiscing near (*) Shadow Pond and replicating a kiss they saw between Ned Hale and Ruth Varnum. Those characters then attempt to commit suicide by crashing into an elm during this activity. For 10 points, name this winter activity that leaves Mattie a paralyzed invalid under the care of Zeena and Ethan Frome.
sledding [or sleighing; accept word forms or answers involving riding or using a sled or a sleigh]
5

118671-)
Harold Bloom argued that a speech in this play in which a character mumbles "God rest his soul in peace" after "a longÂ­forgotten faith returns to him for a moment" is the weakest of the play. A fat character in this play with a face that has a "goodÂ­humored, parasite's characterlessness" was kicked out of the police force on criminal charges. A character in this play once angrily called another character's mother a "free woman", and quits "The Movement" because he could "see all sides of a question." Two veterans of the (*) Boer War, Wetjoen and Cecil Lewis, plan to return to their home countries in this play. In this play, a character known as "The Old Foolosopher" puts his face in his hands after hearing Parritt commit suicide off the fire escape, and character who kills his wife "to give her peace," Hickey, urges others to give up their "pipe dreams." For 10 points, name this play set in Harry Hope's Bar, written by Eugene O'Neill.
The Iceman Cometh
7

118694-)
Containing the image of "dense commuters" moving "from the conservative dark into the ethicallife," this poem from the collection Another Time appeals to "exiled Thucydides" and "madNijinsky" to decry "the (*) international wrong." It opens by setting the scene at "one of the dives/Onfifty-second street." For 10 pointsÂ— name this poem which decries "the windiest militant trash," written byW.H. Auden and titled with a date.
"September 1, 1939"
8

118705-)
After hearing a boatman predict that a hoof will be found under certain boots, the title character getsan itch in his foot. That character pulls the drunk Nikolai Maximovitch from a snowbank, but isbetrayed when Nikolai learns he is (*) Jewish, and he goes to jail on a charge of ritual murder after beingabandoned by Raisl. For 10 pointsÂ— name this novel about Yakov Bok, a handyman, written by BernardMalamud.
The Fixer
8

118936-)
The narrator observes the title character garnering "much applause," but becomes "tired and sick"and must deaprt into the "mystical moist night-air." It contrasts the (*) "proofs" and "figures" "rangedin columns" by the title character to the "perfect silence" outside. For 10 pointsÂ— name this poem in whichWalt Whitman leaves a physics lecture to look at the stars.
"When I Heard The Learn'd Astronomer"
8

118963-)
At one point in this story, Mrs. Harvey observes that Roberta Dillon is thin enough to go to Arizona,and the title character, who greets people with "hello, shell shock!", has her behavior is attributed to"crazy Indian blood." It ends with a pair of (*) braids dropped onto Warren's porch after the maincharacter surreptitiously clips them from Marjorie's head. For 10 pointsÂ— name this F. Scott Fitzgeraldstory which turns on an earlier haircut
"Bernice Bobs her Hair"
8

118993-)
The protagonist of this novel loses seven hundred dollars investing in lard stocks and, for a time, isforced to escort the frail Rappaport. This book opens at the Gloriana Hotel, where a man who wasrecently fired from Rojax is meeting Dr. (*) Adler for breakfast. Maurice Valence and Dr. Tamkin bothcon Tommy Wilhelm. For 10 pointsÂ— name this Saul Bellow novel, titled from an expression of Horace.
Seize the Day
8

119037-)
In one of this author's stories, the narrator and his wife dress up as a football player and a bride for a partywhere most of the guests are football players and brides. The title character of that story scorns the way thatancient shingles and distressed doors have been used to make his family vacation house look venerable. Thenarrator of that story by this man hits his brother Lawrence with a root on the beach. The protagonist of anotherof his stories lives in (*) Bullet Park and names an imaginary stream "Lucinda" after his wife. That story begins ata party thrown by the Westerhazys and ends seemingly the same day with the protagonist's discovery that hishouse is abandoned. For 10 points, name this author of "Goodbye, My Brother" who wrote about Ned Merrill's poolhoppingjourney across suburbia in "The Swimmer."
John Cheever
9

119062-)
This poet wrote that "arms with hands grasping seek to clutch at the prows" in a poem in which the title vessels"contend in a sea which the land partly encloses." This poet was inspired by watching the America's Cup to write"The Yachts." He wrote that "All women are not Helen, I know that, but have Helen in their hearts" in a poemwhich also includes the line "I was cheered when I came first to know that there were flowers also in hell."Another of his poems opens (*) "by the road to the contagious hospital under the surge of the blue." Kenneth Kochparodied this man with a poem beginning "I chopped down the house that you had been saving to live in nextsummer. I am sorry, but it was morning, and I had nothing to do." For 10 points, name this modernist Americanpoet of Spring and All and "Asphodel That Greeny Flower," who also wrote the lines "so much depends upon a redwheelbarrow."
William Carlos Williams
9

119087-)
An essay by this author describes "one element which predominates" in each soul, calling that element virtÃ¹.That twelve part essay is includes its author's translation of the Old English poem "The Seafarer" and comparesthe poet's task to that of the goddess Isis. Another of his essays warns "don't chop your stuff into separate iambs"and "don't be viewy." This author of "I Gather the Limbs of Osiris" wrote about Louis Agassiz repeatedly forcing astudent to describe a sunfish in a parable which describes literature as "news that STAYS news." He wrote "the (*)vortex is the point of maximum energy" in an essay which coined the term "vorticism." This man's most popularcriticism includes "How To Read," ABC of Reading, and "A Few Don'ts by an Imagiste." For 10 points, name thiscritic whose own poetry includes Hugh Selwyn Mauberley and The Cantos.
Ezra Pound
9

119093-)
A description of these events compares them to looking at a stretch of the Rocky Mountains in contrast to theincorrect metaphor of beads on a string. After the first of these events, a character is thrown into the deep end ofa YMCA swimming pool by his father. One of these events changes a film so that it shows factory women workingnight and day to disassemble cylinders and ship their contents to remote areas where they are buried in theground. The first of them occurs in a forest in (*) Luxembourg in 1944. These events explain the disjointed natureof the novel they appear in, as the protagonist is jerked from a plane crash in Vermont to his childhood in Ilium,New York and to the planet of Tralfamadore. For 10 points, name these temporal occurrences experienced by BillyPilgrim in Slaughterhouse-Five
 Billy Pilgrim becoming unstuck in time
9

119110-)
A lawyer in this story defends a plea bargain he struck for one character's son by noting "in the grand schemeof things, such as geology, ten years is not so very long really." That son pawns the TV from his rehab facility tobuy drugs. The narrator of this story has brunch with his boss Nordstrom, who warns him about the pendingStaff Remixing. That narrator notes no Attitudinal Difficulties and rates his partner "very good" in faxes that hesends out nightly. The characters of this story are forced to dig into their Reserve Crackers when the Big Slotcomes up (*) goatless. At the end of this story, its protagonist narcs out Janet and she loses her job pretending to bea cavewoman at an amusement park. For 10 points, name this short story by George Saunders.
"Pastoralia" 
9

119113-)
A description of these events compares them to looking at a stretch of the Rocky Mountains in contrast to theincorrect metaphor of beads on a string. After the first of these events, a character is thrown into the deep end ofa YMCA swimming pool by his father. One of these events changes a film so that it shows factory women workingnight and day to disassemble cylinders and ship their contents to remote areas where they are buried in theground. The first of them occurs in a forest in (*) Luxembourg in 1944. These events explain the disjointed natureof the novel they appear in, as the protagonist is jerked from a plane crash in Vermont to his childhood in Ilium,New York and to the planet of Tralfamadore. For 10 points, name these temporal occurrences experienced by BillyPilgrim in Slaughterhouse-Five
 Billy Pilgrim becoming unstuck in time
9

119130-)
A lawyer in this story defends a plea bargain he struck for one character's son by noting "in the grand schemeof things, such as geology, ten years is not so very long really." That son pawns the TV from his rehab facility tobuy drugs. The narrator of this story has brunch with his boss Nordstrom, who warns him about the pendingStaff Remixing. That narrator notes no Attitudinal Difficulties and rates his partner "very good" in faxes that hesends out nightly. The characters of this story are forced to dig into their Reserve Crackers when the Big Slotcomes up (*) goatless. At the end of this story, its protagonist narcs out Janet and she loses her job pretending to bea cavewoman at an amusement park. For 10 points, name this short story by George Saunders.
"Pastoralia" 
9

119138-)
The admonition to "Be good!" is repeated twice at the end of this poet's "Silhouette". This poet claims that "Democracy will not come/Today, this year/Nor ever" in one poem and he imagines being ordered to "Eat in the kitchen" in a poem beginning (*) "I, too, sing America". One character created by this man repeats the maxim "Life for me ain't been no crystal stair." This author of "Mother to Son" asked if a "dream deferred" withers up like a "raisin in the sun" in his poem "Harlem", and in another work he states "I bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young." For 10 points, name this author of "The Negro Speaks of Rivers", probably the best-known poet from the Harlem Renaissance movement.
Langston Hughes (accept "Silhouette" before it is mentioned)
3

119155-)
In one scene from this novel, one character feels someone's heartbeat as he says the name of her beloved. The last section of this novel features a picture of an eye embedded within the text, and at its end, one character breaks into tears because a carriage turns the wrong way. One character hunts down a man with a red tie, and this novel begins outside a golf course. T.P. and (*) Luster act as guardians to an autistic character in this novel, who, with his brothers, observes his sister's "muddy quarters".  A Harvard student in this novel commits suicide after his sister, Caddy, becomes pregnant with the child of Dalton Ames. For 10 points, identify this novel about the Compson brothers by William Faulkner.
The Sound and the Fury
3

119190-)
In a letter discovered in 2007, this character's creator asked Dr. Francis Kinnicutt's medical advice on behalf ofa friend, before revealing the information was for writing this character. She plays the part of Joshua Reynolds'Mrs. Lloyd in a tableau vivant, a live staging of famous paintings. This character is thrilled to be invited on aEuropean cruise, although she realizes she has only been invited to distract her friend's husband from thefriend's affair with (*) Ned Silverton. After losing her job as a milliner, she finally receives her ten thousand dollarinheritance and writes checks to her bank and to Gus Treanor. Readers have long debated whether her death is anaccident or a suicide, as she has trouble sleeping and overdoses on chloral. For 10 points, name this protagonist ofEdith Wharton's novel The House of Mirth
Lily Bart [accept either name]
9

119196-)
 This author meets with a composer in Caliban's Day, a fictional play which is rehearsed by the main charactersof Alan Bennett's The Habit of Art. He said of the stars that "for all they care, I can go to hell" in a poem in which heresolves that "if equal affection cannot be, let the more loving one be me." This author frequently collaboratedwith Chester Kallman. He worked on the libretti for operas like The Bassarids, The(*) Rake's Progress, and PaulBunyan. He wrote about a man who "knew folly like the back of his hand" in a poem ending "and when he cried thelittle children died in the streets." This author of "Epitaph on a Tyrant" wrote a poem whose speaker sits in "one ofthe dives on Fifty-second Street" and concludes "We must love one another or die." For 10 points, name this authorof "September 1, 1939."
Wystan Hugh Auden
9

119215-)
This character donates most of his fortune to monks who train German police dogs. He regularly crosses theChinese border into Paris, where he leaves taunting notes in the sewers. His companions include a giant tonguelessMongolian and a loveable dwarf named Omba. The son of missionaries, this character acquires his signatureappearance as a baby when Chinese bandits squeeze his head in a vise. This owner of a timber-wolf named (*)Black Wing wears a red poppy mask to conceal his lethal ugliness, but removes it as he is killed by his archenemies,the Dufarges. The creator of this bandit abruptly kills him off after Mary Hudson breaks up with him at a kids'baseball game. For 10 points, name this subject of stories told by The Chief to the Comanche Club in a J.D. Salingerstory.
the Laughing Man
9

119240-)
This book relates the story of a group of surveyors who become trapped in a room with a dozen tarantulas.Some of its characters accept their deaths when they get lost in a snowstorm only to wake up to discover theywere fifteen paces from an inn. In this book, a lawyer is tricked into thinking his client's ranch has been buried bya landslide that deposited a neighbor's ranch above it. Its characters include Jim Blaine, who jumps from subjectto subject instead of telling the story of his grandfather's ram whenever he gets drunk. In this book, Scotty Briggsuses unintelligible slang to try to get a minister to officiate (*) Buck Fanshaw's funeral. It was inspired by a trip itsauthor took to meet his brother Orion in Carson City. For 10 points, name this embellished semi-autobiographicalaccount of Mark Twain's travels in the West. 
Roughing It
9

119271-)
The foundational critical biography of this poet by Gay Wilson Allen began the practice of using an earlier draftof a poem which includes the line "Now Lucifer was not dead - or if he was, I am his sorrowful terrible heir." Thatpoem includes episodes of Washington weeping over the death of his men, a mother recalling an encounter witha "red squaw" from her childhood, and a "gigantic swimmer" who is dashed against the rocks. That poem by thisman opens with the line (*) "I wander all night in my vision, stepping with light feet, swiftly and noiselesslystepping and stopping." Another of his poems mentions the "Crowds of men and women attired in the usualcostumes" and ends by claiming "you furnish your parts toward the soul." For 10 points, name this poet of "TheSleepers" who wrote "Flood-tide below me! I watch you face to face" in "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry." 
Walt Whitman
9

119353-)
The narrator of one story by this man classifies the people he sees from a coffeehouse window as gamblers,pickpockets, junior clerks, and upper clerks. That narrator follows a decrepit old man through the streets ofLondon all night, before realizing the man is "the type and genius of deep crime." The narrator of another storyby this man repeats "I am safe Â– I am safe" in an unsuccessful effort to prevent himself from the inexplicable urgeto confess to poisoning a candle. This author of (*) "The Man of the Crowd" wrote a story in which a prisoner usesthe meat left for him as food to get some rats to chew off his ropes, saving him from a swinging blade. For 10points, name this author of "The Imp of the Perverse" who wrote about a man barely escaping the inquisition in"The Pit and the Pendulum."
Edgar Allan Poe
9

119359-)
This poem calls New York "a logarithm of other cities" in its fifth stanza, which describes Rome, Vienna, andNew York upon claiming "the shadow of the city injects its own urgency." Its speaker compares a hand to a"dozing whale on the sea bottom in relation to the tiny, self-important ship on the surface." The speaker of thispoem notes that "each part of the whole falls off and cannot know it knew, except here and there, in cold pocketsof remembrance, whispers out of time." Its first stanza claims that (*) "Pope Clement and his court were'stupefied' by it" after noting "the glass chose to reflect only what he saw." For 10 points, name this John Ashberypoem which opens "As Parmigianino did it, the right hand bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer."
"Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror
9

119368-)
In this work, the speaker discusses the "starry-spangled shock of mercy" and describes people who "threw potato salad" at "lecturers on Dadaism." This work inquires about a "sphinx of cement and aluminum" and calls the soul a "catatonic piano". Its second section repeats the word (*) "Moloch" while a "footnote" to this poem begins saying the word "Holy!" fifteen times. Dedicated to Carl Solomon, it begins "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by darkness." For 10 points, name this poem by Allen Ginsberg.
"Howl"
3

119387-)
A group of children become terrified of a hermaphrodite in this author's story "The Temple of the Holy Ghost".  Tom Shiftlet marries the deaf-mute Lucynell in another work by this author, who also wrote about the Hopewells in (*) "Good Country People". One of this author's characters says that another character "would have been a  good woman, if it had been somebody there to shoot her every minute of her life." That character appears in a story in which the central family goes to Red Sammy's diner before being killed by the Misfit. For 10 points, name this Southern Gothic writer of "The Life You Save May Be Your Own" and "A Good Man is Hard to Find".
Flannery O'Connor
3

119425-)
A character in this play says the dead are "weaned away" from Earth in a monologue that includes the line "there's something way down deep that's eternal about every human being." In this play, Joe Crowell wins a scholarship but dies during World War I. Each act of this play includes a singing of "Blessed Be the Tie That Binds." A character in this play asks "do any human beings ever realize life while they live it" after re-living her 12th birthday. George Gibbs and Emily Webb are married by a character who arranges the set and explains the plot of this play, the Stage Manager. For 10 points, name this play about Grover's Corner written by Thornton Wilder.
Our Town
6

119439-)
A women's club in Sinclair Lewis's novel Main Street takes its name from this poem. This poem's speaker urges the reader to "go forth under the open sky" when the "last bitter hour comes like a blight" over the reader's spirit. The reader is also urged to "be a brother to th' insensible rock." This poem describes hills that are "rock-ribb'd and ancient as the sun" and brooks that "make the meadows green". The readers of this poem are urged to join the "innumerable caravan" and "go not like the quarry slaves at night." This poem is addressed "To him who in the love of Nature holds / Communion with her visible forms." Its title combines the Greek words for "death" and "sight". Name this poem by William Cullen Bryant.
"Thanatopsis"
3

119442-)
This author wrote about a family that moved from Barrier Street in the Ramsey Hill neighborhood of St. Paul to Washington, D.C. That work by this author is about a woman who marries an environmentalist who works for the coal mining industry. This author also wrote about a ping-pongtable that had a television on it that is covered by issues of Good Housekeeping. That novel is set in St. Jude, where a retired railroad engineer suffers from Parkinson's disease. Much of that work takesplace at Christmas when the Lambert family gets back together. Name this author of Freedom who in 2001 finished The Corrections.
Jonathan Franzen
3

119551-)
One character in this novel telephones her husband from a bar in Montgomery to ask him to look up the recipeto an Alabama Slammer. A child in this novel is terrified of a white dog that she sees and hears everywhere.Another of its characters is Bayonet Melville, whose yacht Tough Baby was originally built for Hitler and smashesseventeen boats during Hurricane Bob. After his wife Petal abandons him and tries to sell his children (*) Bunnyand Sunshine, this novel's protagonist joins his upholsterer aunt and moves to his family's ancestral home at thetown of Killick-Claw on Newfoundland. That protagonist, Quoyle, gets a job as a reporter for the Gammy Birdwriting the title column. For 10 points, name this 1993 Pulitzer Prize winning novel by Annie Proulx.
The Shipping News
9

119559-)
A poem set at a memorial to this war repeats variations on the phrase "leaves / flying, plunge and expire," and begins with the line "row after row with strict impunity." A novel set during this war ends with the description of sun shining through "the hosts of leaden rain clouds." The protagonist of that novel set during this war chucks a pine cone at a squirrel and encounters the Tattered Man. Allen Tate wrote an "Ode" to the dead of one side in this war. In a novel set during this war, Jim Conklin is survived by the cowardly Henry Fleming. For 10 points, name this war that provides the setting for Stephen Crane's The Red Badge of Courage.
the American Civil War
6

119574-)
A character created by this author repeats the line "such noise they make" every time she is interrupted by an offstage airplane. Another character created by this author berates her husband for not recognizing the Bette Davis quote "what a dump!" In a play by this author, Nancy and Charlie's beach vacation is disrupted when two humanoid lizards walk out of the sea. One of his plays is split into sections like "Fun and Games" and "Walpurgisnacht." In that play, a man shoots an umbrella out of a toy gun before he and Martha play "Get the Guests" with Nick and Honey. For 10 points, name this American author of Seascape and Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf.
Edward Albee [or Edward Franklin Albee III]
6

119575-)
This author is mockingly compared to a hippopotamus using its entire strength to move a pea in H.G. Wells' book-length satire Boon. A courier named Eugenio appears in a novel by this author in which the narrator tries to impress the title character by taking her to the Chateau de Chillon. The title character contracts "Roman Fever" after visiting the Colosseum with Giovanelli in a novella narrated by Frederick Winterbourne and written by this author. In another of this author's novels, an unnamed governess tries to protect Flora and Miles from the ghosts of Miss Jessel and Peter Quint. For 10 points, name this author of Daisy Miller and The Turn of the Screw.
Henry James
6

119599-)
The protagonist of this play has an affair with a woman who calls penises "weenies" and thinks that war existsbecause the world is run by men with small penises. This play ends with the two main characters symbolicallyswitching roles and one of them committing seppuku in prison while the other stands over him smoking acigarette. The protagonist of this play has a wife named Helga in France, and is (*) transferred back there byMonsieur Toulon because his predictions about the Vietnam War are wrong. In this play, Song Liling is a man whodisguises himself as a woman to get state secrets from the diplomat RenÃ© Gallimard, who is charmed by Song'sperformance of a Puccini opera. For 10 points, name this Tony-winning play by David Henry Hwang.
M. Butterfly
9

119631-)
 A poem by this author calls a woman a "thin brown mouse... living all alone/In this cold house" andcontrasts her with a woman who "stayed home and scraped life with a fine tooth comb." This author of"Sadie and Maud" set a poem in a "rented back room" inhabited by two women "who have lived theirday" and are "Mostly Good", for whom "dinner is a casual affair". In addition to "The (*) Bean Eaters",her works include a collection of poems about a girl growing up in Bronzeville called Annie Allen. Her most famouspoem is about a group of pool players at "The Golden Shovel" who "lurk late," "strike straight," "jazz June," and"die soon". For 10 points, name this first African-American Pulitzer Prize winner, the poet of "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Brooks [or Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks] 
5

119647-)
Two answers required. In a letter to the other, one of these authors called critics "camp-following eunuchs ofliterature" and declared "all criticism is shit anyway." One of them told Edmund Wilson that the other's story "IWant to Know Why" merely "derives from boys and horses" in downplaying its striking similarities to his ownstory "My Old Man." One of these authors encouraged the other to go to Paris and wrote him letters ofintroduction to Gertrude Stein and Ezra Pound. One of these authors got the other a four book deal with thepublisher Boni and Liveright, a contract the second writer wriggled out of by submitting a sure-to-be-rejectedmanuscript drafted over (*) seven days. That hastily written novel substitutes Indian whooping for "the high shrilllaughter of the negress" and is a parody of the other author's Dark Laughter titled The Torrents of Spring. For 10points, name these men, the authors of The Sun Also Rises and Winesburg, Ohio.
Sherwood Anderson and Ernest Hemingway
9

119666-)
The protagonist of one of this author's short stories rants to his friends about operating a Browning automaticrifle in the army, although he had only fired that gun twice. In one of his novels, the matriarch Pookie raises twodaughters: one becomes a depressed Long Island housewife and the other becomes a depressed career woman inthe advertising field. This creator of Sarah and Emily Grimes wrote a novel in which the mentally ill mathprofessor John Givings condemns the (*) suburban life of his caretaker mother and his neighbors. That novel endswith Frank's empty despair when his wife April Wheeler dies from blood loss after trying to perform a self-inducedabortion. For 10 points, name this author of the short story "The B.A.R. Man" and the novels The Easter Parade andRevolutionary Road.
Richard Yates
9

119673-)
One character in this novel responds to a tragedy by musing "Poor man. Poor mankind." That character isforced to resign from one post after his wife falls out of a window and dies while cheating on him in a Memphishotel. One character in this novel is adopted by the stern and religious Simon McEachern, who beats himfrequently. Two of the central characters of this novel never meet, but one witnesses the column of yellow smokethat emerges from a house fire set by the other. One of its characters is pursued in a lengthy manhunt aftermurdering (*) Joanna Burden. This novel is largely narrated by the millworker Byron Bunch, who aids a pregnantteenager who has arrived in the town of Jefferson. For 10 point, name this William Faulkner novel about LenaGrove and Joe Christmas.
Light in August
9

119694-)
One character in this novel has a recurring dream about fleeing to the "Protective City" to escape from anArabian man called the "Shrouded Traveler". The protagonist of this novel makes a bet with his friend aboutsleeping alone in the deserted ship Admiral Freebee. One character in this novel poorly performs his job as securityguard at a shipyard barracks, by engaging in antics like breaking into his boss's office with Remi Boncoeur. Twocharacters in this novel have a ritual in which they take Benzedrine, sit on a bed facing each other, and talk all night.The protagonist of this novel encounters Old Bull Lee and Carlo Marx while travelling with Dean Moriarty. For 10points, Sal Paradise's adventures are the subject of what landmark work of the Beat Generation by Jack Kerouac?
On the Road
7

119706-)
One character in this story remarks that a man is sometimes "afraid to be alone with himself", shortly after SquireSaunders forgets to invite someone to his table for Sunday supper. The author of this story appended a note at its endclaiming that it was based on a Joseph Moody from Maine, who as a youth had killed his friend. The protagonist ofthis story is frightened by his own reflection in a wine glass, and drops it during a wedding, shortly before he isabandoned by his fiancÃ©e Elizabeth. This story's protagonist dies after proclaiming that he sees the title object "onevery visage", and began the story by frightening his parishioners by delivering a sermon on "secret sin". For 10points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne short story about a dark cloth worn by Reverend Hooper.
 "The Minister's Black Veil"
7

119741-)
One character in this play recalls when a man showed him a new Seville car and said with gratitude: "Youbought that for me." In this play, a man asks "Did you ever take a dump that made you feel you'd just slept fortwelve hours?" during a rambling rant that begins: "...all train compartments smell vaguely of shit." In this play'sopening scene, a character tries to explain his poor performance on the contest board during lunch at a Chineserestaurant. At the end of this play, the fact that the Nyborgs are mentally ill and have no money is revealed bymanager John Williamson, whose office was robbed by Shelley Levene, who has been outperformed by the youngerRicky Roma. For 10 points, identify this play about Chicago real estate agents by David Mamet.
Glengarry Glen Ross
7

119753-)
In one story by this author, a woman is shocked when she notices the resemblance between a character foundsleeping in the shadow of a stone pillar with a boy waving a fan of peacock feathers. One story by this author endswith the protagonist wishing that a cable car would go on forever, after she squanders the money she'd meant tospend on her children, on a fancy lunch, a matinÃ©e, and a luxury clothing item. A parrot squawking "Allez-vous-en"opens a work by this author of "A Pair of Silk Stockings," who wrote a story in which Armand sends away his wifefor having a mulatto child. This author of "DesirÃ©e's Baby" wrote a novel describing Edna Pontellier's discovery ofher own sexuality. For 10 points, name this American author of The Awakening.
Kate Chopin [or Katherine O'Flaherty]
7

119774-)
One of these characters covers up a slip-up by falsely claiming that "orgies" is a synonym for "obsequies".While witnessing the demise of these characters, the narrator declares: "Human beings can be awful cruel to oneanother". One of these characters misremembers a speech as beginning: "To be, or not to be; that is the bare bodkin /That makes calamity of so long life". One of them writes a sign saying "Sick ArabÂ—but harmless when not out ofhis head". That one of them pretends to be deaf and dumb while they crash Peter Wilks' funeral to steal from MaryJane and her relatives. These two characters perform a show called the Royal Nonesuch, while leaving Jim on theraft. For 10 points, name these conmen encountered by Huckleberry Finn, who pretend to be the namesakenoblemen.
Duke of Bilgewater and Dauphin of France [be generous, and accept King in place of "Dauphin"; accept in either order; prompt on descriptions like "conmen/swindlers from The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn"] 
7

119783-)
During this decade, one character is surprised to learn that police were issued new guns after an earlier shootoutwith a cult. In that novel set in his decade, only some people notice that there are now two moons in the sky. In thisdecade, a dyslexic character is helped with writing the novel Air Chrysalis by Tengo. Another character living inthis decade reflects on an old paperweight while with his lover in a room he rented above Charrington's shop. Acharacter erased from the Chess Club's membership during this decade is named Syme and helped develop thelanguage Newspeak. During it, one novel's protagonist falls in love with Julia, and O'Brien is revealed to be amember of the Thought Police. For 10 points, Winston Smith is the protagonist of a dystopian George Orwell novelset in what decade?
the 1980s [or the 1Q80s; grudgingly accept 1984 or 1Q84]
7

119795-)
The narrator of the novel in which he appears muses that this character will "drift on forever seekingÂ…for thedramatic turbulence of some irrecoverable football game." This character is annoyed to be called "hulking" by hiswife and to be referred to at a party as "the polo player." Shortly before marrying this man, this character's wife getsdrunk for the first time and tries to give away a pearl necklace. This character breaks his mistress' nose when shebegins shouting his wife's name. He recommends the narrator read Goddard's racist book The Rise of the ColoredEmpires. He accuses another of acquiring his fortune through bootlegging, setting off a chain of events that leads tohis mistress Myrtle Wilson being run over. For 10 points, identify this husband of Daisy in The Great Gatsby
Tom Buchanan [accept either]
7

119809-)
One of this author's poems describes: "the exchanging of tips on the breeding of terriers, / The eager election ofchairmen / By the sudden forest of hands." One of this poet's speakers asks: "Will time say nothing but I told youso?" This poet described a certain landscape "that we, the inconstant ones, are consistently homesick for." Thisauthor of "If I Could Tell You" wrote a poem whose speaker declares: "I thought that love would last forever; I waswrong," after calling a dead man "my North, my South, my East and West." This author of "Spain, 1937" and "InPraise of Limestone" wrote of sitting "in one of the dives on Fifty-Second Street" in a poem that states: "We mustlove another or die." For 10 points, identify this Anglo-American poet of "Funeral Blues," and "September 1, 1939."
W(ystan) H(ugh) Auden
7

119823-)
A woman in this novel disguised herself as a man before being raped to death by railroad workers who then raiseher son as recompense. A character in this novel throws a box with a dead rabbit and love note out of her carwindow because she thinks there is a snake inside. One character in this novel catches a fever when a woman heassists through birth labors bites him on the hand. That woman in this novel uses chicken blood to fake her owndeath in the housefire that she sets to kill her own parents, and later poisons a woman named Faye and takes overrunning Faye's brothel. In this novel, the Chinese servant Lee and Samuel Hamilton aid Adam in raising his sonsCal and Aron. For 10 points name this biblically-titled novel about many generations of the Trask family, by JohnSteinbeck.
East of Eden
7

119832-)
A character in this play is insultingly told that he is a vegetable, and a slightly near-sighted one at that. Anothercharacter in this play says that he was "queer, queer, queer" during an early affair with a Greek parksuperintendent's son. Fifty years after this play's premiere, its author wrote a prequel called Homelife. Near thisplay's conclusion, the protagonist shouts that God is an African-American drag queen in a kimono, after delivering along monologue about his attempts to befriend, then poison his landlady's dog. In this play, a tickle fight escalatesinto an actual fight over a bench, culminating with one man impaling himself on a knife. For 10 points, Peter andJerry are the characters in what one-act play by Edward Albee set near the title place in Central Park?
The Zoo Story
7

119856-)
The protagonist of one of this author's novels is choked unconscious after discussing the Rubaiyat andEcclesiastes with a man who had earlier won the protagonist's stolen money in a poker game with the cook ThomasMugridge. In that novel by this author, the protagonist debates shooting the blinded antagonist, who repeatedlysabotages attempts to repair his ship and escape an island. In another his novels, the protagonist is saved from atrio's ill-advised attempts to cross a partially-frozen river by John Thornton. The protagonist of that novel by thisauthor of The Sea-Wolf defeats Spitz in a fight to the death after being kidnapped from Judge Miller's house andshipped up north to the Yukon. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the sled dog Buck in The Call ofthe Wild.
(John Griffith) "Jack" London [or John Griffith Chaney]
7

119888-)
A verse drama inspired by events in this state ends with a woman being machine-gunned by thugs working for herbrother. In a play first performed in this state, two women find a strangled canary in Minnie's knitting basket. In aplay set in this state, a group of girls scream as they point at a yellow bird which is supposedly sitting in the rafters.That play set here climaxes with the protagonist shouting "I have given you my soul; leave me my name!" A trial inthis state inspired Maxwell Anderson's Winterset, and Susan Glaspell's Trifles was put on by the ProvincetownPlayers here. A request for "more weight" are the last words of Giles Corey in a play set in this state that featuresAbigail Williams and John Proctor. For 10 points, name this state where Arthur Miller's The Crucible is set.
Massachusetts
7

119909-)
The speaker of one poem by this author declares: "I perceive that I have not really understood any thing, not asingle object, and that no man ever can." The speaker of that poem by this author declares: "Cease not your moaningyou fierce old mother / [Â…] but fear not, deny not me." One of this poet's speakers asks: "Who might you find youhave come from yourself, if you could trace back through the centuries?" while examining people on auction at a"slave-mart." One poem by him declares: "The armies of those I love engirth me and I engirth them." Those poemsby him were included in sections titled "Sea-Drift" and "Children of Adam." For 10 points, name this Americanpoet who included "As I ebb'd with the ocean of life" and "I Sing the Body Electric" in his collection Leaves ofGrass.
(Walter) "Walt" Whitman
7

119947-)
 In his opening monologue, one character in this play says that he is "the opposite of a stage magician" because hepresents truth in the guise of illusion, not vice versa. That character in this play describes "attempting to find inmotion what was lost in space" after "descending the steps of this fire escape for a last time." Two characters in thisplay share a dance and a kiss in the dark, because an aspiring poet who works at a shoe warehouse neglected to paythe electric bill, causing the lights to go out. This play ends with one character saying: "blow out the candles" to agirl whose unicorn figurine broke in an earlier scene. For 10 points, the "gentleman caller" Jim O'Connor pays avisit to the sickly Amanda Wingfield in what "memory play" by Tennessee Williams? 
The Glass Menagerie
7

119970-)
While fantasizing about being one of these creatures, a poem's speaker imagines jumping "peninsulas to get away from you". This creature is asked if "storms harass or foes perplex" it in another poem, where it is compared to Pharaoh in the Red Sea. Later, this animal is told, "Go, take your seat in Charon's boat" because the narrator will tell its family "you died afloat." In another poem, a maid sings to these animals to "stay at home" because (*) "Mistress Mary is dead and gone!" Emily Dickinson commented that "revery alone will do" "to make a prairie" if these animals "are few" and imagined being one "upon a raft of air." One of these animals flies up to a glass of wine and is invited to die of drunkenness in a poem by Philip Freneau, while John Whittier wrote a poem about "Telling" these insects. For 10 points, name these insects whose "secret life" is the subject of a Sue Monk Kidd novel.
bees [also accept honeybees]
7

120014-)
Every time one character in this play refers to herself in first person, she says the word "I" four times. In this play,one character's dying words are: "Next time around: I don't want to be a man. I wanna be an octopus". Onecharacter in this play hallucinates conversing with a member of the International Order of Travel Agents after beingtransported to Antarctica. Another character in this work pretends that his illness is liver cancer and is told by EthelRosenberg's ghost on his deathbed that the New York Bar Association has disbarred him. This play's charactersinclude the valium-addicted Harper Pitt, the AIDS-infected Prior Walter, and a fictionalization of Roy Cohn. For 10points, Millennium Approaches and Perestroika are the two parts of what long play by Tony Kushner?
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes
7

120046-)
In this work, one character believes that God crucified Jesus "to get out of the wretched tangle", while another can only remark, "Seeds in a dry pod, tick, tick, tick!" In this work, an argument over whether a cow can have free will results in the cow goring the would-be philosophers to death. One character in this collection compares a doomed marriage to oxygen and hydrogen giving forth a "devastating fire" after Benjamin Pantier's wife drives him out to live with his dog. The assertion "It takes (*) life to love life" is made by Lucinda Matlock in this collection, which ends with a satire written by Jonathan Swift Somers. Its first poem claims that "Old Fiddler Jones" now babbles about "what Abe Lincoln said / one time at Springfield" and asks "Where are Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom and Charley" before answering "all, all are sleeping on the hill". For 10 points, name this poetry collection composed of epitaphs for inhabitants of the title town, written by Edgar Lee Masters.
Spoon River Anthology
7

120053-)
A negative review of this author's work by William Logan triggered a nasty letter by his biographer Paul Marianithat disputed what kind of jacket this poet was wearing when he died. He described "fine collapses" that "are not lies/ More than the pirouettes of any pliant cane" in a poem that begins: "We make our meek adjustments, / Contentedwith such random consolations / As the wind deposits." The line "Permit me voyage, love, into your hands" appearsin a poem by him that describes "Bright striped urchins flay[ing] each other with sand." This poet of "Chaplinesque"and "Voyages" described Columbus's discovery of America in "Ave Maria," which joins "Powhatan's Daughter" assections of his longest poem. For 10 points, name this American poet of White Buildings and The Bridge.
(Harold) Hart Crane [prompt on "Crane"]
7

120072-)
A character in this novel sees the message "Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princesof the earth" written in red chalk in an alleyway and waits at noon the next few days for the writer to appear. Acharacter in this novel asks whether Mozart was a fascist or a Nazi, after hearing his music being hummed by a girlwho is deeply moved while hiding in some bushes and hearing the Eroica symphony on the radio. One character inthis novel has a relationship with Harry Minowitz, and another commits suicide after the death of his friend SpirosAntonapoulos. Dr. Copeland, Jake Blount, Mick Kelly, and Biff Brannon are brought together by the deaf-muteJohn Singer in, for 10 points, what first novel by Carson McCullers?
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter
7

120104-)
The narrator of a story named after this process cites the cases of Edward Stapleton and Victorine Lafourcade tojustify his fear of them. That narrator conquers his fear of this process after finding himself in the berth of a sloop inwhich he had fallen asleep. One character removes thirty-two teeth from a woman who suffers this fate; that womanis Egaeus' cousin Berenice. A character who underwent this process interrupts the tale of Sir Ethelred and thedragon, causing another character to yell "Madman! I tell you that she now stands without the door!" Only theringing of jester bells is heard after a character who dies in this manner yells "For the love of God, Montresor!" For10 points, name this fate that befalls Fortunato and Madeline Usher, a common trope in Edgar Allan Poe stories.
being buried alive [or being walled alive; or being entombed alive; accept premature burial]
7

120147-)
Characters in this novel include a violinist wearing a vest with golden horseshoes over a pink shirt and a woman who sings in a way that is both tragic and looks like a horse. The protagonists of this novel are described as "one of those incongruous and impossible married couples," and the husband urges his wife not to work the day after their wedding. Tommy Hinds helps the main character of this novel, who goes to jail after assaulting his wife's rapist, and gets drunk for the first time when Madame Haupt can't help his wife. This novel's author claimed that (*) "I aimed for the public's heart, and by accident I hit it in the stomach". This novel ends with the all-caps declaration "CHICAGO WILL BE OURS!" at a Socialist meeting. Awful events in this novel include Phil Connor's rape of Ona and Antanas drowning in a mud puddle. For 10 points, name this inadvertent exposÃ© of meatpacking plants, a novel about Jurgis Rudkus by Upton Sinclair.
The Jungle
7

120183-)
Two characters in this novel argue whether women have been cursed to suffer the fate of putting up with men, or vice versa. One character in this novel goes to prison after getting grouped in with a bunch of robbers in a subway station; that character, who falls in love with Elizabeth at a diner, is revealed to be the protagonist's true father, Richard. One character in this novel is asked if he has never been "made to drink a cup of sorrow" before being shown a letter from his dead wife (*) Deborah, which Florence kept in her handbag for years. This novel's protagonist is upset when his brother comes home with a knife gash and doesn't know why that brother, Roy, is favored by his preacher stepfather Gabriel. This novel takes place on the fourteenth birthday of its protagonist, who experiences a religious revelation. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical novel about John Grimes, by James Baldwin. 
Go Tell It on the Mountain
7

120190-)
In one poem addressing this place, the speaker asks, "When can I go into the supermarket and buy what I want with my good looks?" Another poem partly titled after this place asks, "Who know why five Israelis was filming the explosion/And cracking they sides at the notion." That Amiri Baraka poem is titled "Somebody Blew Up [this place]. FTP what country titles an Allan Ginsberg poem in which the speaker says he's "putting his queer shoulder to the wheel," lyricized by Katherine Lee Bates as "the Beautiful"?
America
6

120203-)
A two-part story by this author sees a recurring character from his work camp and fish near the title river, landing two trout. The unnamed girl explodes, "Will you please, please, please, please, please, please, please stop talking" at the American in another story by this author when he won't stop trying to talk her into an abortion. That work by this author of "Big Two-Hearted River" showcases this author's noted "iceberg theory" of composition. Yet another short story by this author sees Harry dream of ascending to the title summit by plane as he dies of gangrene on the African plain. FTP what author wrote the stories "Hills Like White Elephants" and "The Snows of Kilimanjaro." 
Ernest Hemingway
6

120217-)
One of this author's poems describes a person who "plays at chess with the bones of the world" and "nurses chocolate fantasies" while ignoring "gray child faces crying in the streets." Another of this author's poems mentions an object which "fit nowhere" on a bookshelf and is "fired in sanguine clay." This author of "The Lady and the Earthenware Head" stated "Thirty years now I have labored to dredge the silt from your throat. I am none the wiser" in a poem about a "pithy and historical" (*) statue. Another of her speakers compares herself to "the arrow, / the dew that flies, / suicidal" into the "red eye, the cauldron of morning." She described a woman with "skin as bright as a Nazi lampshade" who claims "Dying is an art, like everything else" and "I eat men like air". For 10 points, name this poet of "The Colossus," "Ariel," and "Lady Lazarus," who claimed "every woman adores a Fascist" in "Daddy."
Sylvia Plath
7

120248-)
One of this author's recurring characters receives a postcard displaying Modigliani's Le grand nu (new) from Consuela Castillo (cas-TEE-oh) in one novel and, in his first appearance, transforms into an object of his sexual obsession. A short story by this man illustrates the class differences between Brenda Patimkin and Neil Klugman. This author also created a character who suspects Amy Bellette of being Anne Frank in disguise in one novel, seeks out his mentor E.I. Lonoff in another, and in a third befriends (*) Coleman Silk, a professor accused of racism who himself is secretly black. This creator of David Kepesh (kuh-PESH) wrote a novel in which Merry Levov becomes a terrorist and Sheila Salzman has an affair with Seymour, "the Swede." This man's alter ego Nathan Zuckerman appears in such novels as The Human Stain and American Pastoral. For 10 points, name this Jewish-American author of  "Goodbye, Columbus" and Portnoy's Complaint. 
Philip Roth [or Philip Milton Roth]
7

120267-)
A character wearing this type of clothing who lives outside Houston describes three women who refuse to ruin their friendship for a man in "pyramid" and narrates the story of the Creole dancer Sechita. An author who wrote that "womanism is to feminism as [this property] is to" a similar one in the collection In Search of Our Mother's Gardens also penned a novel in which a character states that "it pisses God off if you walk by" this thing "in a field somewhere and don't notice it."  This (*) color appears in the title of a novel in which Adam undergoes the same facial scarring ritual as his new wife Tashi before leaving Africa with Samuel and Nettie. Much of that novel titled partly for this color features a protagonist who writes letters to God while in an abusive marriage with Mister, from which she eventually flees after falling in love with Shug Avery. For 10 points, name this color that titles a novel about Celie by Alice Walker. 
purple [or "the color purple"; prompt on "color" until "this color" is read]
7

120279-)
A chapter of this novel quotes a poem about "bare feet and chamomile sap" before observing that "his coming is the reverse route of his going." In this novel, three overlapping shadows that appear to be holding hands are seen as a good omen. The lesson "definitions belonged to the definers" is forcibly imparted to Sixo in this novel, which features a climactic scene in which the protagonist mistakenly attacks another character with an ice pick while thirty other women sing. Janey Wagon works as a servant for Mr. and Mrs. Bodwin in this novel, which relates how the central characters escaped from (*) Sweet Home to Cincinnati. Baby Suggs dies after Halle's sons run away in this novel, which begins with the line "124 was spiteful." Paul D distrusts this novel's title character, who charms Denver and her mother. For 10 points, name this book titled for the murdered daughter of Sethe, a 1987 novel by Toni Morrison.
Beloved
7

120293-)
The protagonist of this story does not know the difference between phosphates and phosphites, which she takes along with cod liver oil. A character in this story would "as soon put fireworks in [a] pillow-case" as have Cousin Henry and Julia over, and dismissively refers to the protagonist as a "blessed little goose." Phrases like "isolated columns of fatuity" and "a 'debased Romanesque' with delirium tremens" are applied to the (*) central object of this story, whose protagonist throws a key out of the window, where it lands under a plantain leaf. The protagonist watches a woman who hides under the "blackberry vines," and muses on how humiliating it would be to "be caught creeping by daylight". For 10 points, name this story in which a woman prescribed a "rest cure" is slowly driven mad by isolation, written by Charlotte Perkins Gilman.
"The Yellow Wallpaper"
7

120311-)
This author wrote about Blinker, who falls in love with Florence and later learns he owns the housing development in which she lives, in the story "Brickdust Row." In another of his stories, Sue convinces the artist Behrman to paint the title object before he dies, thus convincing the pneumonia-addled Johnsy to survive when it fails to fall. He also wrote about Jimmy Valentine, who is forced to reveal his hidden past as a (*) safecracker to save his fiancÃ©e's niece, in "A Retrieved Reformation." In another story by this author of "The Last Leaf," Sam is re-named "Snake-eye, the Spy," and told by a boy that he is to be broiled at the stake at sunrise; in that story, found in The Four Million, Sam and his friend Bill end up returning Johnny to his father, Ebenezer Dorset. For 10 points, name this author  of "The Ransom of Red Chief" and a story in which Jim and Della get each other ironically useless presents, "The Gift of the Magi."
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
7

120341-)
One character in this novel picks up a "kinda skanky-lookin" hitchhiker, but refuses to sleep with her because of his wife, who is with her mother in Odessa, while she refuses to believe he's a welder because of his machine gun. This novel ends with one protagonist recounting a dream in which his dead father carried a moon-colored horn lit with fire. While recovering in a Mexican hospital, a character in this novel is offered protection by the bounty hunter (*) Carson Wells. This novel's antagonist tells Carla Jean, "You didn't do anything. It was bad luck," before flipping a coin and shooting her with his "stungun". For 10 points, name this novel that takes its title from the Yeats poem "Sailing to Byzantium", stars Llewelyn Moss, Sheriff Bell, and Anton Chigurh, and was written by Cormac McCarthy.
No Country for Old Men
7

120359-)
James Russell Lowell referred to one author with this surname as "an angel with clipped wings". That author wrote the book Observations on the Principles and Methods of Infant Instruction, which was much better-received than his series of dense, incomprehensible "Orphic Sayings". Another author with this surname created the vaguely Satanic Philip Tempest, who tracks Rosamond Vivian across Europe in the titular "long fatal love chase". This is the surname of the author who created a family that shares its Christmas breakfast with the poor (*) Hummels, much to the delight of the matriarch Marmee. That author by this surname created a character  who writes stories for the Daily Volcano and marries Professor Bhaer instead of Theodore Laurence, who marries her sister Amy instead. For 10 points, give the surname shared by father Amos Bronson and daughter Louisa May, the author of Little Women.
Alcott
7

120377-)
In one work by this author, Mildred Kent runs into Mr. Johnson, after which he gives her and Arthur Adams money to go to Coney Island; his wife spent her day accusing a woman of shoplifting and trying to get a bus driver fired. In another work by this author, chips of wood are abandoned in favor of pieces of paper and members of a town mispronounce the name "Delacroix." This author wrote a novel whose protagonist feeds Richard Plantagenet (plan-TAH-jun-ette) and uses long things to remind herself to be kind to Uncle Julian, and in which it is revealed that (*) Merricat, not Constance, killed the Blackwoods. This author of "One Ordinary Day, With Peanuts" and We Have Always Lived in the Castle is perhaps best known for a work which describes the events of June 27, when Davy Hutchinson helps stone his mother Tessie to death. For 10 points, name this author of "The Lottery."
Shirley Jackson [or Shirley Hardie Jackson]
7

120395-)
A character in this novel has an inexplicable tattoo reading "Pamela" on his hip and uses a SteelSak to kill animals. Another character in this novel dresses entirely in black clothing, hence his nickname "The Darkness." The tour in the wake of this book's publication was the subject of David Lipsky's book Although Of Course You End Up Becoming Your Self. U.S.O.U.S. officer Hugh Steeply, who often disguises himself as "Helen," liaises with Remy Marathe, a quadruple agent ostensibly working for a (*) Quebecois separatist group in this novel. The deformed Mario and Phoenix Cardinals punter Orin are members of this novel's central family. Another member of that family included an apology delivered by Joelle van Dyne in a film known as "the Entertainment" because it obsesses anyone who views it. For 10 points, name this novel set largely at the Enfield Tennis Academy, starring many members of the Incandenza family and written by David Foster Wallace.
Infinite Jest
7

120426-)
When told that the one true statement in the world is "God is love," one character in this work replies, "What is God? What is love?" Another character in this work lists his avocation as "being alive" and his principal occupation as "being dead." A doctor in this novel who used to work for the Nazis will, working night and day, have saved and let die equal numbers of people by the year 3010; that doctor works for a hospital founded by (*) Julian Castle. A holy book beginning "All of the true things that I am about to tell you are shameless lies" and sacred texts in the form of calypsos are used by a religion in this novel called Bokononism, which is sweeping San Lorenzo. In this novel, the dictator Papa Monzano is killed, and the world's oceans are frozen, by an invention of Felix Hoenikker For 10 points, name this Kurt Vonnegut novel that introduced ice-nine.
Cat's Cradle
7

120434-)
This state provides the location for a novel about a telephone switchboard operator going through an existential crisis and Lenore's escape from a nursing home managed by David Bloemker. That work is David Foster Wallace's first novel, The Broom of the System. The college attended by Marcus Messner in Indignation is located in this state, and this state is also the setting of a work in which Windpeter (*) Winters drives his wagon into a train in a frenzy of mad delight. Windpeter's son, Hal Winters, later decides to marry a girl he impregnated despite the advice of Ray Pearson, and in another story set in this state, Adolph Meyers is wrongly accused of pedophilia due to fidgety fingers. For 10 points, name this state which is the setting of "The Untold Lie" and "Hands," short stories by Sherwood Anderson about the residents of Winesburg.
Ohio
7

120439-)
In one work, this poet lamented her old age and wrote that "Somebody muffed it? Somebody wanted to joke". This author of  "A Sunset of the City" wrote about a girl whose parents, Maxie and Andrew, have "clogged and soft and sloppy eyes". That girl later sticks her tongue out at a relative's funeral and resolves "do not be afraid of no". This author wrote a mock-epic for the same character which begins "think of sweet and chocolate" and describes her experience with an imagined lover who leaves and returns to her. This woman wrote about a couple who live in a room full of "tobacco clothes, vases, and fringes" who are (*) "Mostly Good" and for whom "dinner is a casual affair". This woman's most famous poem talks of "seven at the Golden Shovel" who "sing sin", "thin gin", and "die soon". For 10 points, name this poet of Annie Allen, "The Bean Eaters", and "We Real Cool". 
Gwendolyn Brooks
7

120626-)
This literary character lies about recovering from a "clavichord" operation, and he writes an essay about a baseball glove covered with poems. This character often thinks about what happens to the ducks when the lagoon in Central Park freezes over. This character also often thinks about Jane Gallagher, and he gives his sister Phoebe his red hunting hat. For 10 points, name this character who is expelled from Pencey Prep and narrates J. D. Salinger's book The Catcher in the Rye.
Holden Caulfield [accept either] 
6

120638-)
Leonard Gardner's 1969 novel Fat City focuses on this sport. The first line of The Sun Also Rises tells us that Robert Cohn had been a champion in this sport at Princeton. Joe Bonaparte has to choose between a musical career and this sport in the Clifford Odets' play Golden Boy. Max and Al are two hitmen who encounter Nick Adams while looking for their target, Ole Anderson, a practitioner of this sport in Hemingway's story "The Killers." FTP what is this sport that was spotlighted in Rod Serling's teleplay "Requiem for a Heavyweight," in which two dudes pummel each other while wearing gloves?
boxing
6

120654-)
This author wrote of an "Arhat who sought Heaven under a mountain of stone" before claiming "humility is beatness before the absolute world" in "Sakyamuni Coming Out from the Mountain". This author asked, "Is this the sickness that is doom" in "On Reading William Blake's 'The Sick Rose.'" This poet wrote of "the great dream of me or China, or you and a phantom Russia" in a poem that ends, "Love, your mother'/which is Naomi." He asked, "What sphinx of cement and aluminum bashed open their skulls?" in another poem. This author of "Kaddish" lamented "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness." For 10 points, name this Beat poet of "Howl."
Allen Ginsberg
6

120664-)
In a short story by this author, the abusive Sykes is killed by a rattlesnake he plants in some washing to kill his wife. This author of "Sweat" described slavery as the "price [she] paid for civilization" in an essay in which she also described not feeling that she was a "Negro" until she moved to Jacksonville in her teens, titled "How It Feels to Be Colored Me." Dying in poverty, the attempt to find her unmarked grave was described by Alice Walker in a 1973 essay for Ms. Magazine. This woman is best known for creating the characters of Tea Cake and Janie Crawford. FTP, name this author of Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Zora Neale Hurston
6

120665-)
Tom Wolfe's latest novel Back to Blood is set in this city. Norman Mailer paired this city with the "Siege of Chicago" in one non-fiction work about the 1968 presidential conventions. John Sayles' novel Los Gusanos is set in 1981 in this city and follows Marta, who mourns her brother killed in the Bay of Pigs invasion. The head of this city's chamber of commerce is killed and stuffed in a suitcase in an effort to scare of tourists in the novel Tourist Season, written by a reporter from this city, Carl Hiassen, who wrote for its Herald newspaper. FTP Don Delillo's Libra shows a conspiracy to kill JFK beginning in the Little Havana neighborhood of what large city in southeastern Florida.
Miami
6

120682-)
In one short story by this author, the cynical Frazer disputes with the card-player Cayetano while Sister Cecilia prays for both. Another story by this author sees the protagonist call his wife a "rich bitch" while gangrene slowly kills him and he rues the many stories he never wrote. This author of "The Gambler, the Nun, and the Radio" and "The Snows of Kilimanjaro" also wrote a story in which the generic man and girl share drinks at a train station, but the girl cannot get the man to appreciate her title comparison, instead continuing to badger her about getting an abortion. "Hills Like White Elephants" is a story by, FTP, what author who also wrote novels like For Whom the Bell Tolls and The Old Man and the Sea?
Ernest Hemingway
6

120688-)
One character revisits this city with "Guggenheim money" and claims it looks a lot like Dayton, Ohio. Twoobstetricians in this city scold a character for neglecting a pair of horses. This city is home to a factory filledwith hidden spoons that its workers use to secretly snack on (*) malt syrup. In this city, a firing squad shoots EdgarDerby for stealing a teapot, while another character survives a catastrophic event by hiding in a meat locker. For 10points, identify this city whose firebombing is witnessed by Billy Pilgrim in Slaughterhouse-Five. 
Dresden
9

120707-)
When one of this author's speakers wakes up to discover that the gem they were holding is gone, theymourn: "an amethyst remembrance / is all I own." "Sore must be the storm / That could abash the little Bird/That kept so many warm," according to this poet's (*) ""Hope" is the thing with feathers." This speaker considershow dreary it must be to be somebody in this author's poem "I'm nobody! Who are you?" For 10 points, name this"Belle of Amherst" who wrote "Because I could not stop for Death."
Emily Dickinson
9

120716-)
A noise that this novel's protagonist perceives as "someone being sacrificed" turns out to be a young boybound to a wall. This novel's protagonist is called a "Magyar Maiden" by a socialite that purchases thischaracter's mother's hat for $15 while at the (*) Night of Joy bar. The protagonist of this novel barely holds a jobselling hot dogs at Paradise Vendors and later runs off with Myrna Minkoff. For 10 points, name this novel about theintellectual slob Ignatius J. Reilly, written by John Kennedy Toole. 
A Confederacy of Dunces
9

120720-)
This writer published, but soon thereafter disowned, a sequel to David Lindsey's novel A Voyage toArcturus titled The Flight to Lucifer. This writer included kenosis, askesis, and apophrades among six"revisionary ratios" that affect the agon, or the process by which writers deal with the pressure of their (*)predecessors. In another work, this writer argued against the "School of Resentment" and promoted a purely aestheticform of literary criticism. For 10 points, name this author of The Anxiety of Influence and The Western Canon. 
Harold Bloom
9

120738-)
This character's lover believes that Lombard sunshine isn't as cheerful as that of southern Italy. That lover isrepeatedly called out to by this character with the inquiry "Why tarriest thou?" Professor Baglioni comparesthis character to a woman "as lovely as the dawn" who was gifted to Alexander the Great. After consuming (*)liquid from a silver vase crafted by Benvenuto Cellini at the end of the story, this character dies. For 10 points, name thischaracter loved by Giovanni whose touch and breath bring death, the title child of a Hawthorne story.
Rappaccini's daughter [or Beatrice Rappaccini; accept any answers indicating the daughter of Giaocomo Rappaccini; prompt on just Rappaccini]
9

120771-)
This author wrote a play about a young man who steals a ten-cent hammer from Woolworth's and lateruses it to build a bench. A character created by this author possesses a single penny, and stops by theY.M.C.A. to complete his "Application for Permission to Live." This author of The Parsley Garden wroteabout Blick's death at the hands of (*) Kit Carson, one of the many regulars at Nick's Pacific Street Saloon. For 10points, name this Armenian-American author of "The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze" and The Time of YourLife.
William Saroyan
9

120784-)
In this novel, a woman runs scalding water over the utensils used by her black maid, who eats lunch"alone like a leper." A boy in this novel is berated for supposedly eating French fries with Melvin Weiner after he lies about having diarrhea. A man in this novel recalls bathing with his frequently-constipated father, an insurance salesman. This novel ends with the question, "Now vee may perhaps to begin. Yes? "While in Connecticut, its protagonist pretends to be married to his (*) sexually adventurous girlfriend, who he nicknames "The Monkey." The title character describes his adolescent obsession with masturbation and his overbearing mother Sophie to his psychiatrist, Dr. Spielvogel. For 10 points, name this novel about the title "nice Jewish boy," by Philip Roth.
Portnoy's Complaint
5

120801-)
A family of this ethnicity gives all its jewelry to David Clancy in order to retrieve their son from customsofficials in "In the Land of the Free", a story by an author of this ethnicity who was born Edith MaudEaton. Grace and Steve take on mythological roles and eventually abandon Dale in a restaurant in a playby an author of this ethnicity who also wrote a play in which Rene Gallimard kills himself after his longtermlover reveals that he is male. The author of (*) F.O.B. and M. Butterfly is of this ethnicity, as is the authorof a novel in which June, Rose, Lena, and the chess prodigy Waverly are the daughters of a quartet of mahjongplayingwomen called the Joy Luck Club. For 10 points, identify this ethnicity of Sui Sin Far ("sway" sin far),David Henry Hwang, and Amy Tan.
Chinese-American [or Chinese-British-American; or Chinese-British-Canadian; or Chinese-BritishCanadian-American]
5

120807-)
The protagonist of this novel reads Gone with the Wind to his friend who is recuperating from burns in the hospital. Another character, Two-Bit, is a shoplifting specialist who gives his prized switchblade to another member of their group. The protagonist befriends Cherry Valance, who belongs to a rival group at the high school, and her boyfriend Bob was killed in self-defense by Johnny, leading to a climactic rumble in this novel. Featuring Dally and Soda Pop, FTP what is this young adult novel in which Johnny urges Ponyboy to "stay gold," written by S.E. Hinton?
The Outsiders
6

120819-)
In one novel by this author, Guitar tries to kill Milkman because he thinks Milkman has hidden gold; that book's motif of flight suggests a folklore story in which slaves flew to freedom. Another novel features the three Deweys and Shadrack, a veteran who invents National Suicide Day. Along with Sula and The Song of Solomon, this author wrote a novel in which the title girl is killed by her mother to prevent her forced return to the plantation Sweet Home. FTP name this last American to win a Nobel in literature, the author of Beloved.
Toni Morrison
6

120834-)
One poem by this author decries the title discipline, which "preyest . . . thus upon the poet's heart" and "drag[s] Diana from her car." In addition to writing "Sonnet: to Science," this author described the "ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir" in another poem. This poet also wrote about the title beauty, who brings the speaker to "the glory that was Greece/And the grandeur that was Rome." In another poem by this man, the speaker tells us about the title female, "I was a child and she was a child/In this kingdom by the sea." Those poems by this author are "To Helen," "Ulalume," and "Annabel Lee." FTP, name this American author best known for his poem "The Raven."
Edgar Allan Poe
6

120838-)
The protagonist of this novel says he learns the true meaning of "manana" from Ricky, the brother of Terry, a woman with whom the narrator picks cabbage and shacks up with before abandoning her. One draft of this novel was originally produced on a 120-foot long scroll since the author couldn't afford typing paper. The narrator's best male friend is described as the "holy goof," and the two part after a long drive from Denver to Mexico City. Featuring Dean Moriarty and Sal Paradise, FTP, what novel takes its title from the careening, dexedrine-fueled car rides from coast to coast and was written by Jack Kerouac?
On the Road
6

120861-)
The staging instructions of this play contrast a peripheral "angry glow of orange" with a "blue light" thatilluminates the central scene. The protagonist of this play tells one character to go to hell after that characterjokes about Ebbets Field blowing up. A character in this play brags about his son's ability to recite the (*) statecapitals in alphabetical order before firing the protagonist. In another scene, the protagonist gifts stockings to hismistress, to the horror of his son Biff. For 10 points, name this play about the frustrations of Willy Loman, by ArthurMiller. 
Death of a Salesman
9

120884-)
A war veteran in this novel who has trouble eating at Chinese restaurants assaults the protagonist, but isheld off with a tire iron. Later, that character threatens the protagonist while fishing atop an icy lake. Thisnovel's protagonist purchases milk from a dairy farm just to watch Faunia (*) Farley milk cows. Delphine Roux isdelighted when the protagonist resigns from his post at Athena College after calling a pair of his students "spooks." For10 points - Nathan Zuckerman narrates what novel about the passing professor Coleman Silk, written by Philip Roth?
The Human Stain
9

120902-)
The narrator of this story is critical of women, noting that a "thick ankle" is enough to make him indifferenttowards them; fortunately, he encounters a girl perfect but for her lettuce poisoning. A character in this storyconsiders ordering "sulphuric acid shampoo" for his slaves and sends his men to kill an escaped (*) Italianteacher. This story is set in a never-before surveyed area in the Montana Rockies. John T. Unger is awed to discover thatthe Washington family estate is situated atop a giant gem in Â– for 10 points Â– what F. Scott Fitzgerald story?
"The Diamond as Big as the Ritz"
9

120962-)
In one novel, a character with this name argues that Don Quixote's insanity was an act intended todetermine the gullibility of his fellow men. An author with this name wrote a novel about a detective hired byWhite to watch over the writer Black, and included motifs like the Tower of Babel and a red notebook in a trilogy of novels that includes (*) Ghosts and The Locked Room. For 10 points, give the name of the American authorwho wrote about writer Daniel Quinn in City of Glass, the first novel of his New York Trilogy.
Paul (Benjamin) Auster [prompt on "Paul"]
9

120976-)
This character notes, "if I could paint, I'd paint that picture" at the sight of a black child standing by a shack.This character wears a navy blue straw sailor hat, and comments that she "injured an organ" after a cat jumpsout from underneath a basket. This character threatens to stop curling (*) June Star's hair. Later, this characterattempts to persuade her captor that he's "one of [her] own children!" before being shot three times in the chest. For 10points, name this elderly woman killed by The Misfit in Flannery O'Connor's story "A Good Man is Hard to Find." 
the grandmother from "A Good Man is Hard to Find"
9

120991-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems "laughed and laughed into the sky, / Till at my throat astrangling sob / Caught fiercely." When another of this poet's speakers was only "knee-high," he was told:"There's nothing in the house / But a loaf-end of rye", and an (*) object with a "woman's head" that "Nobodywill buy." The speaker of another of this author's poems delights in an object that "gives a lovely light!" For 10 points,name this author of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver," whose poem "First Fig" opens: "My candle burns at both ends."
Edna St. Vincent Millay
9

121024-)
This novel concludes on the ominous note that a central character's tears were "not the last she wasdestined to shed." In a letter, Mark Twain wrote that he'd rather be "damned to John Bunyan's heaven thanread" this novel, which includes a charlatan mesmerist-healer named Selah. This novel's heroine is dissuadedfrom speaking at a (*) music hall by Olive Chancellor's cousin, a Civil War veteran named Basil Ransom. For 10points, Verena Tarrant is one of the title residents of a Massachusetts city in - for 10 points - what Henry James novel?
The Bostonians
9

121041-)
This author praised "France, the beautiful!" for a gift they gave America in his poem "The BartholdiStatue." The speaker of another work by this author begs the "Dear Lord and Father of Mankind" to "Forgiveour foolish ways!" This author set another poem in (*) Frederick town, whose title character instructs StonewallJackson to "Shoot, if you must, this old gray head." For 10 points, name this Fireside poet who wrote "The Brewing ofSoma" and "Barbara Frietchie," along with the the "Winter Idyl" "Snow-Bound."
John Greenleaf Whittier
9

121076-)
The narrator of this work decides against opening a swimming school, but acknowledges that it wouldbring in "a good deal of Money." This work's narrator is surprised to receive three "great puffy rolls" of breadafter asking for a single "three-penny loaf." In this work, a list of thirteen virtues is followed by a ledgertracking the virtues its narrator (*) neglects over the span of a week. This work recalls how, in 1732, its author firstpublished Poor Richard's Almanack. For 10 points, name this account of the life of a bespectacled Founding Father.
The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin [accept anything mentioning that it's Benjamin Franklin's autobiography]
9

121096-)
This work relates that its main official had once been required to "walk among the people" and perhaps present "a recital of some sort." A receptacle used in this work was purportedly made of pieces of previous boxes, and for the rest of the year, was kept in Mr. Graves' barn. One possible reason for the title event is provided by Old Man Warner, who says that an old saying relates that when it is held "in June, corn be heavy soon," hinting at a pagan agricultural ritual behind it. This story ends with Tessie Hutchinson being stoned to death. FTP, name this short story by Shirley Jackson.
"The Lottery"
6

121105-)
This poet described the "dancers go round, they go round and/around" in his poem on "Breughel's great picture, The Kermess." In another work, he described the "muddy fields" seen "by the road to the contagious hospital"; that poem is often titled for the collection in which it appears, Spring and All. In another poem the speaker apologizes for eating the plums the addressee was "probably saving for breakfast." FTP who is this American who described the title farm implement "glazed with rain/water/beside the white/chickens" in "The Red Wheelbarrow."
William Carlos Williams
6

121115-)
One poem by this author describes the persona as an "inebriate of air" and "debauchee of dew." Besides "I Taste a Liquor Never Brewed," this author wrote a poem in which the title creature divides grass "as with a comb" and calls a snake "A Narrow Fellow in the Grass." Yet another poem describes the "blue, uncertain, stumbling" sound made by an insect as the speaker lies dying. FTP, what American poet wrote "I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died," as well as poem in which a "carriage held but us and immortality," "Because I Could Not Stop for Death"?
Emily Dickinson
6

121135-)
One poem by this author describes the persona as an "inebriate of air" and "debauchee of dew." Besides "I Taste a Liquor Never Brewed," this author wrote a poem in which the title creature divides grass "as with a comb" and calls a snake "A Narrow Fellow in the Grass." Yet another poem describes the "blue, uncertain, stumbling" sound made by an insect as the speaker lies dying. FTP, what American poet wrote "I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died," as well as poem in which a "carriage held but us and immortality," "Because I Could Not Stop for Death"?
Emily Dickinson
6

121153-)
This fictional character is said by another character to be over six feet tall and to survive on a diet of cats and squirrels. This character leaves Indian head pennies, gum wrapped in foil, and an old spelling bee medal in the knot of an oak tree for the protagonists of the novel in which he appears, until his brother Nathan plugs the hole. Heck Tate insists on stating that Bob Ewell [YOO-el] fell on his own knife to protect this character, who stabbed Ewell in order to protect his young neighbors, the Finches. FTP, name this reclusive character, an object of fascination for Jem and Scout in To Kill a Mockingbird.
Arthur "Boo" Radley
6

121173-)
This fictional character is said by another character to be over six feet tall and to survive on a diet of cats and squirrels. This character leaves Indian head pennies, gum wrapped in foil, and an old spelling bee medal in the knot of an oak tree for the protagonists of the novel in which he appears, until his brother Nathan plugs the hole. Heck Tate insists on stating that Bob Ewell [YOO-el] fell on his own knife to protect this character, who stabbed Ewell in order to protect his young neighbors, the Finches. FTP, name this reclusive character, an object of fascination for Jem and Scout in To Kill a Mockingbird.
Arthur "Boo" Radley
6

121189-)
In one work by this author, a dancing bear is shot, Endicott orders Edgar to have his hair cut, and the "Maypole of Merry Mount" is chopped down. In one story by this man, Killigrew fights with Medbourne and Gascoigne over the now-young Wycherly, and in another story, Mr. Hooper believes he's hiding the mark of sin behind the title object. This author of "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment" and "The Minister's Black Veil" also wrote a novel about Hester Prynne, who is forced to wear the titular "A" on her bosom. For 10 points, name this author of The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
6

121196-)
This novel begins with one of the two main protagonists falling into a small pond and the other jokingly remarking that he shouldn't drink so much water while the two men are running away from the town of Weed. This novel's antagonist is the only one of the men to wear high-heeled boots and keeps his hand in a glove filled with Vaseline to keep it soft for his wife, who resents not being able to become a movie star. That wife dies after she invites one of the protagonists, who had already killed a mouse and a puppy, to pet her hair, causing her husband, Curley, to form a mob and pursue the protagonists. FTP, name this novel, in which George shoots Lennie to save him from the mob, written by John Steinbeck.
Of Mice and Men
6

121200-)
This author described swallows that "fly low" over the "forest-field of Shiloh" in a poem collected in his book Battle-Pieces and Aspects of the War. This author's last novel was an allegory in which the title figure interacts with passengers on the steamboat Fidele on the Mississippi, titled The Confidence-Man. In another novel, Captain Amasa Delano finally discovers the title figure's ship has been taken over by its slave cargo. Along with Benito Cereno, another novella by this author sees the title figure salute Captain Vere before being hanged for killing Claggart. FTP, name this author of Billy Budd as well as a book about Ahab's obsession with a white whale.
Herman Melville
6

121213-)
The novel Plum Bun by Jessie Redmon Fauset is a representative work of this movement. Helga Crane is a thinly disguised stand-in for the author in another novel produced by a writer associated with this movement; that book is Quicksand by Nella Larsen. Another novel by Larsen emblematic of this movement sees Claire die after falling from a window; Claire had been capable of the title action of this novel because of her mixed race. The novel Passing is an example of what literary movement, FTP, many works of which were published in The Crisis, which comprised African-American writers in New York in the 1920s and 30s?
Harlem Renaissance
6

121218-)
One novel partly titled for this color centers on the murder of a miniaturist illustrator during the reign of Murad III. Another work titled solely by this color is John Logan's 2010 Tony-winning play about Mark Rothko. A horse named Gabilan belongs to Jody Tiflin in a collection of stories by John Steinbeck named for a pony of this color. FTP, name this color also used in the title of a story in which Prince Prospero is killed at his own ball titled for a "Masque" of death of this color.
red
6

121223-)
Philip Roth's character Nathan Zuckerman fantasizes that Amy Bellette may be this figure in disguise. Solomon Kugel is guilted into supplying food for this real-life figure when she's discovered living in the attic of his farmhouse in Shalom Auslander's novel Hope: A Tragedy. Nathan Englander riffed on a Raymond Carver title in a collection titled "What We Talk about When We Talk about" this figure, including in it a story in which a game named for her is played, in which couples guess what Christian friends would hide them if there were a second Holocaust. FTP, name this girl who was taken from Amsterdam by the Nazis, and who kept a famous diary.
Anne Frank
6

121248-)
In one story by this author, Helen is locked out in the snow by her husband Charlie Wales, who wants his daughter Honoria to live with him. This author of "Babylon Revisited" wrote a novel in which the actress Rosemary Hoyt has an affair with the psychiatrist Dick Diver, who marries Nicole, a former patient. He wrote another novel partially set in West Egg, in which George Wilson shoots the title character, who loves Daisy Buchanan and befriends Nick Carraway. For 10 points, name this author of Tender is the Night and The Great Gatsby.
F. Scott Fitzgerald
6

121253-)
In one poem, this poet finds comfort that a creature is "lone wandering, but not lost" after asking "Whither...dost thou pursue thy solitary way?"  In another of this man's poems, he urges his reader to "Go forth under the open sky, and list to Nature's teachings." That poem concludes with the exhortation to joyfully join "the innumerable (*) caravan" and act "like one who wraps the drapery of his couch about him, and lies down to pleasant dreams" when meeting death. This author of "To a Waterfowl" wrote a poem addressed "to him who in the love of nature holds communion with her visible forms" when he was just 17. For 10 points, name this American poet, who wrote "Thanatopsis."
William Cullen Bryant 
4

121264-)
In this film, a character gets change by shooting a vending machine. A phone call in this film includes the lines, "Well, it's good that you're fine, and I'm fine. I agree with you. It's great to be fine!" It ends with the song "We'll Meet Again." Near its end, one character becomes worried about a possible "mineshaft gap." A character in this film is worried about his (*) "precious bodily fluids"; another shouts "Gentlemen, you can't fight in here! This is the War Room!" Near its end, Slim Pickens' character falls to earth atop an atom bomb. For 10 points, name this Stanley Kubrick film in which Peter Sellers plays a British officer, the President, and the title scientist, who can't stop making the Nazi salute.
Dr. Strangelove or: How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb 
4

121293-)
The narrator of this novel spends a chapter explaining why a certain color inspires "vague, nameless horror" in him. In this novel, a speech beginning "Your woraciousness, fellow-critters, I don't blame ye so much for" is given by the cook Fleece. Its narrator watches his roommate's strange, twenty-four-hour "Ramadan" with a small, black idol named Yojo. Sermons in this novel are given on the book of (*) Jonah and to the sharks. Its narrator signs up with a ship owned by Captains Bildad and Peleg in Nantucket. In this novel set on the Pequod, Queequeg serves with a man who says, "Call me Ishmael." For 10 points, name this Herman Melville novel about Captain Ahab's search for the title white whale.
Moby-Dick; or, The Whale 
4

121295-)
[missing]
[missing]
4

121316-)
After gathering supplies, two characters in this novel hide in an attic garret and pretend to be ghosts. In this novel, Mrs. Bird, who has just lost a child, chastises her husband for new legislation in the Senate and encourages him to hide a girl and her child in John Van Trompe's house. In this novel, Cassy reunites with her daughter in Canada after Eliza jumps onto (*) ice blocks to cross the frozen Ohio river. Another character in this novel is sold by Eva St. Clare's mother to Simon Legree, who whips the title slave to death. For 10 points, identify this novel written by the "little lady who started this great war," Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Uncle Tom's Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly 
4

121334-)
In a story by this author, a man characterizes God as "the Fat Lady" during a phone call from Buddy's old room. That character and his sister both appeared on a radio show called "It's a Wise Child," as did a man who sits next to Sharon Lipschutz, provoking Sybil's jealousy. Another character created by this author resents Stradlater's date with (*) Jane and watches his sister ride a carousel. That former fencing team manager recalls a poem-covered baseball glove that belonged to his deceased brother, Allie, and he accuses the world of "phoniness" after leaving Pencey Prep. For 10 points, identify this author of the Glass family stories and The Catcher in the Rye.
J.D. Salinger [or Jerome David Salinger] 
4

121373-)
One work by this author features a woman who reminisces about Edgar Teagarden and tells Bobby Lee's companion, "Why you're one of my babies." In a story by this author, Carver's mother violently refuses a penny and wears the same hideous purple and green hat as Julian's racist mother. Upon realizing that a plantation with a "secret panel" is actually in Tennessee, one of this author's characters causes a car accident by kicking (*) Pitty Sing's basket. That character "might have been a good woman if there had been somebody there to shoot her every minute of her life" and is killed by "The Misfit." For 10 points, name this Southern Gothic writer of "A Good Man is Hard to Find."
Flannery O'Connor 
4

121390-)
At the end of the second act in one of this man's plays, a character asks the audience to offer up their chairs for firewood. In that play by this author, Moses, Homer, and the Muses visit a family whose maid, Sabina, falls in love with Mr. Antrobus. One of his characters exclaims, "Why can't I stay for a while just as I am?" during her wedding, and later asks "Does anyone ever realize (*) life while they live it?" after reliving her twelfth birthday. In that play by this author, Simon Stimson and Emily Webb die, and the Stage Manager tells us facts about Grover's Corners. For 10 points, name this American playwright of The Skin of Our Teeth and Our Town.
Thornton [Niven] Wilder 
4

121430-)
One of this author's characters says that "motherhood was invented by someone who had to have a word for it because the ones that had the children didn't care whether there was a word for it or not." Another of his characters breaks a leg when Vernon Tull's bridge collapses. The first section of one of his novels is narrated by a boy whose sister "smelled like trees." A chapter in one of his novels is just (*) Vardaman saying "my mother is a fish." Another of his novels features the mentally handicapped Benjy, who reminisces about his sister Caddy, and whose brother, Quentin Compson, commits suicide. For 10 points, name this Mississippian author of As I Lay Dying and The Sound and the Fury.
William [Cuthbert] Faulkner 
4

121437-)
A building of this kind is briefly invaded by cows and has trouble with dead rats, which sometimes appear in raincoats. At one point, residents of that building lose their voices to a man with a third nostril, though that man's nose is eventually sneezed off and served in spaghetti sauce. One edifice of this type has no (*) nineteenth floor, which is not home to Miss Zarves. That building's top floor was once populated by Mrs. Gorf, who turned children into apples by wiggling her ears and sticking out her tongue. For 10 points, identify this type of building exemplified by Louis Sachar's Wayside, which has one classroom on each of its thirty floors.
elementary schools [or Wayside school; accept clear equivalents] 
4

121450-)
In this novel, a character convinces Master Brackett to let him into a cell and claims to have learned medicine from an Indian in exchange for his alchemical knowledge. Town gossip links that man to the Overbury affair, and he is present when a child states that her mother plucked her from a rosebush. Another character in this novel says that she would have gladly signed her name in the (*) Black Man's book had her daughter been taken from her at the governor's mansion; that woman stands on a scaffold with Pearl and Arthur Dimmesdale. For 10 points, name this novel in which Hester Prynne is ostracized by her Puritan community for adultery, by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The Scarlet Letter 
4

121469-)
One character in this novel is sent to a chain gang in Alfred, Georgia after he tried to kill Brandywine. That man follows flowers northward to meet a woman who lost her milk during an attack by schoolteacher's nephews. Years after she was ferried by Stamp Paid, another character in this novel experiences "re-memories" and lives at a "spiteful" edifice "full of a baby's (*) venom," 124 Bluestone Road. In this novel, Paul D. helps Denver's mother come to terms with the disappearance of a ghostly girl who shares her name with a tombstone inscription. For 10 points, identify this novel about Sethe and the baby she killed when faced with slavers, written by Toni Morrison.
Beloved 
4

121490-)
n one poem, this author states that "the stars go waltzing out in blue and red" and parenthetically admits, "I think I made you up inside my head." This poet claims to be "the arrow, the dew that fliesÂ…into the red Eye, the cauldron of morning," and one of her poems tells (*) Herr Doctor that "I rise with my red hair and I eat men like air." This poet conjured "a man in black with a Meinkampf look" before declaring that "every woman adores a fascist." For 10 points, identify this American author of "Ariel" and "Daddy" who committed suicide a month after the publication of her novel about Esther Greenwood, The Bell Jar.
Sylvia Plath 
4

121510-)
A character with this first name visits the Chillon Chateau with a man, to Mrs. Costello's dismay. Another character with this first name has a daughter named Pammy and states that her lover "looks like the advertisement of a man." A woman with this name dies of Roman fever after a visit to the Colosseum with Giovanelli, devastating (*) Winterbourne. This first name also belongs to a woman whose maiden name is Fay and whose voice is "full of money." That character weeps over a stack of shirts, has a green light at the end of her dock, and runs down Myrtle Wilson. For 10 points, identify this first name of Tom Buchanan's wife and Jay Gatsby's lover in The Great Gatsby.
Daisy [accept Annie until "daughter named Pammy"; accept any more specific Daisy, like Daisy Miller] 
4

121530-)
One character in this work sneaks onto the lawn at midnight and proclaims, "When I'm bad, I AM bad!" Edmund Wilson highlighted the "ambiguity" of this work, which features a character who "said things" to those he liked, resulting in his expulsion from school. The narrator of this novel sees a hatless red-headed man on the tower; that man was "much too (*) free with everyone," according to the housekeeper. Mrs. Grose takes a girl back to her uncle after the narrator catches her at the lake, meeting "a horror," her predecessor at Bly. For 10 points, identify this novella in which the governess fails to save little Miles from Peter Quint, a ghost story by Henry James.
The Turn of the Screw 
4

121549-)
At the opening of this work, the protagonist smashes a rat with a skillet and scares Vera by holding it in front of her. This novel's protagonist, who reconsiders a plan to rob Mr. Blum's deli while watching Trader Horn in a theater, eventually attempts to escape the city during a snowstorm, and he is left penniless, having thrown the body of his dead girlfriend, Bessie, down a shaft with all of the money in her pocket. This money was taken from the purse of Jan Erlone's girlfriend, whom he accidentally killed when trying not to be caught in Mary Dalton's bedroom, all of which could have been avoided had he swept out the furnace. "Bigger" Thomas is eventually given the death penalty in, FTP, which novel by Richard Wright?  
Native Son 
7

121654-)
A poem by this man begins with a Lord Oxford quotation that warns "'Tis dangerous to be good," and istitled for a man who "sits musing o'er his scars and wooden leg." The title subject of another of his poems is "bynature's self in white arrayed," and is told by the speaker, "when you die you are the same, the space between isbut an hour." That poem by this poet is addressed to a "fair flower, that dost so comely grow." Another poem bythis writer begins, "In spite of all the learned have said, I still my old opinion keep," and describes a site thatshows "the fancies of a ruder race." For 10 points, name this "Poet of the American Revolution" who wrote "TheWild Honeysuckle" and "The Indian Burying Ground."
Philip Freneau [or Philip Morin Freneau]  
7

121669-)
A character in this poem recalls "a day when historians left blanks in their writings" and states "theblossoms of the apricot blow from the east to the west and I have tried to keep them from falling." The line"Pull down thy vanity" is repeated in this poem. In this poem, Acoetes describes the appearance of vines andlynxes on a pirate ship after the exclamation "Hang it all, Robert Browning!" This poem attacks money-lendingin its "with usura" section. The first part of this poem is adapted from the Odyssey and begins, "And then wentdown to the ship." One section of this poem quotes from the writings of John Adams, and another was writtenwhile the author was imprisoned in Pisa. For 10 points, name this lengthy unfinished poem by Ezra Pound.
The Cantos 
7

121754-)
This sort of object provides the surname of an innkeeper who owns a mysterious smoked-over oil painting and tells the protagonist that another character is out peddling shrunken heads. In the first chapter of the novel in which he appears, that protagonist describes finding himself stopping before warehouses full of these objects.A character climbs into one of these objects with an idol named Yojo after falling (*) ill with a fever and later decorates it with carvings. A canoe-like object of this sort is reworked by a carpenter into a life-buoy. One of these objects made by Queequeg emerges from a whirlpool after the Pequod sinks. For 10 points, Moby Dick ends with Ishmael floating on what sort of object, usually used to store dead bodies?
coffins [prompt on canoes, buoys, or sea chests]
5

121758-)
In a novel, these objects are variously described as Ee Gee, the amazing editor, an Olympic lady crewchampion, and a brilliant professor. Esther says, "I saw my life branching out before me" and describes "everybranch, like a fat purple" one of these objects in The Bell Jar. These objects name a collection containing theline, "We were very tired, we were very merry," that ends with a sonnet opening, "I shall forget you presently,my dear." "Recuerdo" and a two-line poem beginning, "Safe upon the solid rock the ugly houses stand," follow apoem that opens, "My candle burns at both ends," in that collection titled after this fruit. For 10 points, namethese fruits, "a few" of which title a collection by Edna St. Vincent Millay.
figs
7

121769-)
 In this novel, a man hanging onto a branch is mercifully killed with the last bullet of a character whoconstantly calls himself a "man of no cross." A soldier in this novel pretends to be a doctor so that he can savehis beloved by wrapping her in a blanket and running away with a man dressed up as a bear. A man known as"Le Renard Subtil" in this novel lost his position after becoming an alcoholic. Near its end, a crowd awaits theverdict concerning "La Longue Carabine" given by the elder Tamanend. It opens as General Webb organizes amarch toward Fort William Henry, while Duncan Heyward accompanies the Munro sisters. For 10 points,name this novel in which Uncas and Hawk-Eye fight the Hurons in upstate New York, by James FenimoreCooper. 
The Last of the Mohicans
7

121793-)
When this character is introduced, she is described as having eyes like "two small pieces of coal pressed intoa lump of dough." This character explains to the Board of Aldermen that she has been granted an exemptionfrom paying taxes by Colonel Sartoris. Later, the Board of Aldermen sends four men to sprinkle lime on thischaracter's property in response to complaints of an odor coming from her house. This woman is rumored tobe suicidal after she purchases arsenic that is labeled for rats. In this character's bedroom, townspeopleeventually find a strand of her gray hair next to the rotting corpse of Homer Barron. For 10 points, name thisreclusive title character of a short story by William Faulkner titled "A Rose for" her. 
Emily Grierson [or Emily Grierson]
7

122158-)
The speaker of this poem, "knowing how way leads on to way," believes he "shall be telling thiswith a sigh / somewhere ages and ages hence." This poem describes "leaves no step had troddenblack," on a path "less traveled by" that the speaker finds in a (*) "yellow wood," and it concludes"and that has made all the difference." For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem in which the speakerchooses between two "equal" paths.
The Road Not Taken
2

122183-)
In this work, David Gamut tries to teach beavers to sing psalms, and Heyward pretends to be amedicine man so he can rescue Alice. Cora Munro is captured by Magua, who kills Uncas during afailed rescue attempt by (*) Chingachgook and Natty Bumppo, who is also known as Hawkeye. For 10points, identify this second novel in The Leatherstocking Tales, a work by James Fenimore Cooper.
The Last of the Mohicans
2

122191-)
Alvaro woos Serafina with the title object in this author's The Rose Tattoo. This man wrote TheNight of the Iguana and a work in which Jim Lawrence breaks the horn of Laura Wingfield'sunicorn. In another of his plays, the protagonist loses Belle Reve [bell rehv], and (*) StanleyKowalski fights with his sister-in-law, Blanche DuBois, in New Orleans. For 10 points, name thisAmerican playwright of The Glass Menagerie and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Thomas Lanier "Tennessee" Williams III
2

122206-)
In the "Theory of Composition," this poem's author explains why this poem's "Prophet" seemslike "a demon that is dreaming" but can only say one word. The speaker asks the title creature toreturn to "Night's Plutonian shore," but it stays on the "pallid bust of (*) Pallas" in his room. Thispoem's speaker laments the loss of "dear Lenore" while the title bird repeats "nevermore" in, for 10points, what poem by Edgar Allan Poe?
The Raven
2

122217-)
This author wrote of a "narrow fellow in the grass" and said she was an "inebriate of air" and"Debauchee of Dew" in a poem that begins "I taste a liquor never brewed." This poet wrote "hopeis a thing with feathers" and "I heard a (*) fly buzz when I died," and described a carriage that "heldbut just ourselves and Immortality." The "Belle of Amherst" was, for 10 points, this reclusive Americanpoet who wrote "Because I could not stop for Death."
Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
2

122232-)
One character in this novel hears his companions called "mule drivers" and "mud diggers." Theprotagonist abandons a "tattered soldier" after a battle and allows an injury from being hit with arifle to be mistaken for a bullet wound, the title (*) mark he longs for. Jim Conklin dies refusing helpin, for 10 points, this novel about Union soldier Henry Fleming, a work by Stephen Crane.
The Red Badge of Courage
2

122246-)
Sammy Singer's friend Lew Rabinowitz dies in this author's novel Closing Time. One of thisman's characters asks if there are any prayers without reference to God. Colonel Cathcart and theowner of M+M Enterprises appear in another of his works, in which (*) Major Major Major ispromoted because of his name and Milo Minderbinder profits from war. For 10 points, name this authorwho created John Yossarian in his novel Catch-22.
Joseph Heller
2

122256-)
A character in this novel can only be killed by hemp, according to the Parsee Fedallah; thatcharacter throws his pipe overboard and nails a gold doubloon to the mast of his ship. An unusedcoffin once carried by (*) Queequeg serves as the narrator's lifeboat when the Pequod sinks in thisnovel, which begins "Call me Ishmael." For 10 points, name this Herman Melville novel about CaptainAhab's quest for the title white whale.
Moby Dick; or, The Whale
2

122261-)
This book describes a creature who "launch'd forth, filament, filament, filament out of itself,"and a narrator who "look'd up in perfect silence at the stars." This collection contains "A NoiselessPatient Spider" and "When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer" and this work honors (*) Lincolnwith the poems "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed" and "O Captain! My Captain!" "Song ofMyself" appears in, for 10 points, what poetry collection by Walt Whitman?
Leaves of Grass
2

122285-)
In a work by this author, Pontiac dealer Dwayne Hoover is obsessed with a science fictionauthor. One of his novels takes place in San Lorenzo, the home of Bokononism. A ballerina is shotby Diana (*) Moon Glampers in a short story by this author of Breakfast of Champions and Cat's Cradle,who created the fictional writer Kilgore Trout. For 10 points, name this author, who created Billy Pilgrimfor his novel Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
2

122294-)
One character in this work is called salao, but fondly remembers his first fishing trip with afive-year-old helper. That protagonist dreams of lions on a beach, and he remains confident in theYankees and the "great DiMaggio." (*) Manolin is forbidden to go with the title character in thisnovella, who goes for 84 days without a fish before finally catching a marlin, only to have it get eaten bysharks. For 10 points, identify this novella about Santiago, a work by Ernest Hemingway.
The Old Man and the Sea
2

122303-)
In this work, Heck Tate orders the shooting of Tim Johnson, and the protagonist discussesentailment to calm down Walter Cunningham's father. This novel's narrator frightens Calpurniaby sitting in a balcony with (*) Dill to watch her father defend Tom Robinson against the Ewells.Atticus Finch appears in, for 10 points, what novel about Jem and Scout, written by Harper Lee?
To Kill a Mockingbird
2

122312-)
In one scene of this work, the narrator recounts a grand battle between red and black ants. Thiswork describes the sharpening of an axe in the chapter "Economy," and near the end it discussesthose who hear "a different drummer" in the pursuit of simplicity and (*) self-sufficiency. Thenarrator spends two years on Ralph Waldo Emerson's land after going into the woods to "livedeliberately" in, for 10 points, what Henry David Thoreau work set at a title pond?
Walden; or, Life in the Woods
2

122327-)
A schoolhouse in this work was designed so a thief could easily get in, but not out, though thisproves ineffective against Abraham Van Brunt. Katrina Van Tassel marries Brom Bones after aschoolteacher disappears in this story, which was collected in The (*) Sketch Book of GeoffreyCrayon. Ichabod Crane flees the Headless Horseman in, for 10 points, what story by Washington Irving?
The Legend of Sleepy Hollow
2

122346-)
Two members of this movement collaborated on And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks in1945. Another member of this movement wrote "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyedby madness" in the poem "Howl." William Burroughs, Allen Ginsburg, and the author of (*) Onthe Road, Jack Kerouac, were members of, for 10 points, what 1950's American literary movement,stereotyped by bongo-playing poets, that inspired the hippies of the 1960's?
Beat Generation (accept beatniks)
2

122367-)
A parrot in this novel shrieks "Allez Vous-en!" [ah-LAY voo ZON] at passing cottage guests,and this novel's protagonist cries upon hearing Mademoiselle Reisz's [rize's] piano playing. Theprotagonist compares herself to the motherly Adele Ratignolle [rah-tih-nyoll] in her marriage toLÃ©once. She has an affair with AlcÃ©e Arobin [ah-roh-BAN] and falls in love with (*) Robert Lebrun,which ultimately leads to her suicide in the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, identify this novel about EdnaPontellier [pon-tell-ee-ay], a work by Kate Chopin [shoh-PAN].
The Awakening
2

122378-)
This character looks like his great uncle, who sent a substitute to the Civil War and started afamily hardware business. In his "younger and more vulnerable years," he was told not to criticizepeople who may not have had his advantages. He has a love affair with the golfer (*) Jordan Bakerand went to a funeral with Henry Gatz. The second cousin once removed of Daisy Buchanan, for 10points, identify this narrator of The Great Gatsby.
Nick Carraway (accept either underlined name)
2

122398-)
The final section of this poem claims that "it was evening all afternoon". A man who "rode overConnecticut in a glass coach" mistook the subject of this poem for "the shadow of his equipage". Itsspeaker claims to know "noble accents and lucid, inescapable rhythms" but notes that the subject of thepoem "is involved in what I know". This poem contrasts the "beauty of inflections" with the "beauty of(*) innuendos". One section of this poem opens by mentioning the "thin men of Haddam", while in another, thespeaker looks through icicles for the shadow of the title creature, whose eye is the only moving thing "amongtwenty snowy mountains". For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poem about various perspectives on a certainanimal.
"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird" 
5

122401-)
 This author wrote a poem that describes a scene "in the childhood of the world" in which a group callsfor "milky sap" and "honey from the hollow oak". A mention of a "still, small voice of calm" ends a poemby this man that was the source of the hymn "Dear Lord and Father of Mankind". The uncle tells huntingstories and the schoolmaster relays news from Dartmouth in a poem by this man whose speaker wakes upafter a storm to "no cloud above, no earth below, / a universe of (*) sky and snow!" In a poem by this authorof "The Brewing of Soma", Stonewall Jackson orders his men not to harm the title character, who says "Shoot, ifyou must, this old gray head, / But spare your country's flag". For 10 points, name this Quaker poet of "SnowBound"and "Barbara Frietchie".
John Greenleaf Whittier 
5

122432-)
A family of this ethnicity gives all its jewelry to David Clancy in order to retrieve their son from customsofficials in "In the Land of the Free", a story by an author of this ethnicity who was born Edith MaudEaton. Grace and Steve take on mythological roles and eventually abandon Dale in a restaurant in a playby an author of this ethnicity who also wrote a play in which Rene Gallimard kills himself after his longtermlover reveals that he is male. The author of (*) F.O.B. and M. Butterfly is of this ethnicity, as is the authorof a novel in which June, Rose, Lena, and the chess prodigy Waverly are the daughters of a quartet of mahjongplayingwomen called the Joy Luck Club. For 10 points, identify this ethnicity of Sui Sin Far ("sway" sin far),David Henry Hwang, and Amy Tan.
 Chinese-American [or Chinese-British-American; or Chinese-British-Canadian; or Chinese-BritishCanadian-American]
5

122437-)
 A stock-broker from this city takes a train to Chicago with his suicidal cousin after that cousin's fianceis killed in a car crash. In this city, a janitor who frequently exclaims "woo-ee!" and a woman who appearsas Harlett O'Hara in a cockatoo-related striptease act both work at the Night of Joy Bar. A character fromthis city dresses as a pirate while running a hot dog stand. Binx Bolling lives in this city in Walker Percy'sThe (*) Moviegoer. A character from this city hates Greyhound Buses, organizes a strike at Levy Pants to impressMyrna Minkoff, and always wears a green felt hat. Ignatius J. Reilly lives in this city in John Kennedy Toole's AConfederacy of Dunces. For 10 points, name this Gulf Coast city in Louisiana.
New Orleans, Louisiana
5

122456-)
 This author created a character who imagines a "phantom salutation of the dead" as he stands "in themiddle of the road / Like Roland's ghost winding a silent horn". Another of this man's characters"dreams of Thebes and Camelot / And Priam's neighbors" in a poem that describes how he "mournedRomance, now on the town / And Art, a vagrant". A man climbs a hill to drink from a jug and talk tohimself in his poem "Mr. (*) Flood's Party", which like many of his short lyrics was set in the fictional TilburyTown. A "gentleman from sole to crown" who "glittered when he walked" chooses a calm summer night toinexplicably "put a bullet through his head" in this man's most famous poem. For 10 points, name this Americanpoet of "Miniver Cheevy" and "Richard Cory".
Edwin Arlington Robinson
5

122467-)
This character is deeply affected by the performance of a barbershop quartet called the Four-EyedBastards at his eighteenth anniversary party. He has a vision of "Adam and Eve in the golden depths"while staring at a pair of boots taken from Roland Weary, who later convinces Paul Lazzaro to kill thischaracter. This character attends the Ilium School of Optometry and marries Valencia Merble after he isreleased from the mental hospital where (*) Eliot Rosewater introduces him to the novels of Kilgore Trout, andhe has a child with Montana Wildhack after being abducted by aliens from Tralfamadore. For 10 points, name thischaracter who survives the firebombing of Dresden and becomes "unstuck in time", the protagonist of KurtVonnegut's Slaughterhouse-Five.
Billy Pilgrim [accept either underlined portion] 
5

122481-)
One of this author's narrators stumbles upon a broken device labeled with "hot" and "cold" switches and surmises that it contained strong magic. That character from a short story by this author is told to avoid the "Dead Places" where ruined monuments to the god "ASHING" lie. Jack Ellyat and Clay Wingate join different armies in an (*) epic poem by this man that depicts its title character's trial in Charles Town. One of this author's title characters is told "some will call you Ichabod" in a story that includes Judge Hathorne among a set of jurors. In that story, Jabez Stone is successfully acquitted despite breaking his contract with Mr. Scratch. For 10 points, name this author of "By the Waters of Babylon", John Brown's Body, and "The Devil and Daniel Webster".
Stephen Vincent Benet
5

122486-)
At the end of this novel, the protagonist thinks "Zero hour...time to go" after habitually checking hisbroken watch. A flashback describes how its protagonist's father pursues a relationship with the lab techRamona after the protagonist's mother Sharon abandoned him, taking his pet rakunk Killer. In a narrativethread of this novel, the protagonist travels from the "pleeblands" to the ruins of Paradice. A character inthis novel who attends the Watson-Crick Institute and gets a job with (*) RejoovenEsense took his nicknamefrom the game Extinctathon. This novel's sequel in the MaddAddam trilogy is The Year of the Flood. For 10 points,name this 2003 novel in which Snowman's flashbacks detail his pre-apocalypse life with the two title characters, byMargaret Atwood.
Oryx and Crake
5

122502-)
 In this novel, a character promotes healthy living with initiatives like Banish the Booze Week andBetter Babies Week. Joyce Lanyon enters a loveless marriage with this novel's main character before hemoves to Vermont at this book's end. A woman in this novel dies after smoking a half-finished cigarettewhile on St. Hubert. This novel's title character hosts a lunch to which he invites his two fiancees, ofwhom he eventually chooses a native of Wheatsylvania, North Dakota named (*) Leora Tozer. Theprotagonist of this book grows up in Elk Mills in the state of Winnemac, and discovers the X Principle whileworking with fellow scientists Terry Wickett and Max Gottlieb. For 10 points, name this novel by Sinclair Lewis,whose title character is a doctor named Martin.
Arrowsmit
5

122512-)
In this story, the protagonist wonders if women have minds or if they have "just a little buzz like a bee in aglass jar." The narrator of this story imagines a family party complete with men in ice-cream suits and bowtiesafter another character tries to purchase herring snacks. In this story, the protagonist and his co-workerStokesie are captivated by a trio of women who are led by a girl nicknamed Queenie. This story concludeswhen Lengel chastises the three women for being barefoot and wearing bikinis, prompting Sammy to wonder"how hard the world was going to be" after quitting his job. For 10 points, name this short story set at a conveniencestore, written by John Updike. 
 "A &amp; P" 
7

122542-)
While visiting this city, Rowland Mallet nearly falls to his death to pick a flower for the title sculptor'sfiancee in the novel Roderick Hudson. This city, where Karen Stone engages in a love affair in a TennesseeWilliams novel, is the setting for a story whose final line of dialogue, "I had Barbara," implies that Mrs. Ansleyhad sex with Delphin Slade. At the end of The Portrait of a Lady, Isabel Archer returns to this city, where shelived with Gilbert Osmond. Edith Wharton titled a story for this city's "fever," an archaic euphemism formalaria. In this city, a young expatriate visiting from Geneva named Winterbourne becomes fascinated by theflirtatious title girl of a Henry James novella. For 10 points, name this amorous Italian city in which DaisyMiller visits the Colosseum. 
Rome 
7

122580-)
In a novel by this man, the phrase "Tekeli-li" is cried by natives of an island off the coast of Antarctica, whogleefully set fire to the Jane Guy. In that novel by this man, the half-Indian Dirk Peters launches a rebellionwith Augustus and the title character on the Grampus. In a story by this author, the title creature's imageappears on a wall with a hangman's noose around its head. At the end of that story of his, the police are alertedto the location of the narrator's wife's corpse by the cries of Pluto. General Lasalle rescues the narrator fromthe Spanish Inquisition in another of his stories. For 10 points, name this author of The Narrative of ArthurGordon Pym who also wrote "The Black Cat" and "The Pit and the Pendulum." 
Edgar Allan Poe
7

122593-)
In a sonnet by this author, a physician recalls how he used "a slight kind of engine" and asks, "You wouldn'thang me? I thought not." This poet described a man who "lifted up his voice and sang, secure, with only twomoons listening, until the whole harmonious landscape rang" with the words "for auld lang syne." This poet'spopularity peaked in the 1920s, a decade in which he won three Pulitzer prizes. This poet of "How AnnandaleWent Out" wrote about a drinker who "mourned Romance, now on the town, and Art, a vagrant." He alsowrote about a "gentleman from sole to crown" who, "one calm summer night, went home and put a bulletthrough his head." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Mr. Flood's Party" and "Richard Cory." 
Edwin Arlington Robinson
7

122600-)
While trying to put on as many articles of clothing as possible, this novel's protagonist knocks over a can ofhairspray, causing the can to fly around the bathroom and break a mirror. This novel's protagonist breaksdown crying after spending two hours staring at a photograph of James Clerk Maxwell in a failed attempt tooperate the Nefastis machine. A character in this novel, who was once a child movie star named Baby Igor, isthe protagonist's co-executor of Pierce Inverarity's will. This novel's protagonist frequently encounters asymbol resembling a muted post horn, which represents an underground mail organization called theTristero. For 10 points, name this novel about Oedipa Maas, which was written by Thomas Pynchon. 
The Crying of Lot 49
7

122627-)
In this play, a woman decides that normal human relationships are "two by two" after being told that she isabout to lose one of her chicks. Another woman in this play says that people are "shut up in little boxes," andasks her father to take her away on her wedding day. The first scene of this play includes a description of thePolish Town and a prediction of when the first car will appear in this play's setting. At the end of this play, adead woman returns to one of her birthdays, and asks if humans ever "realize life while they live it." HowieNewsome serves as the milkman of this play's setting, the hometown of George Gibbs and Emily Webb. For 10points, name this play set in Grover's Corners by Thornton Wilder. 
Our Town 
7

122634-)
In this novel, a hotel waiter unsuccessfully seeks a "man's job" building a road to the local river. At the end ofthis novel, a woman recalls the way calm water quelled the "turbulent" body of a young boy. The title characterof this novel has a grandmother who cuts off her leg to get insurance money and a mother who dies when herdress catches on fire. A character in this novel encourages everyone to kill themselves each year on January 3.This novel's setting, which was built on land that a slave bought thinking that the land was closer to heaven, isan Ohio town called The Bottom. Its title character accidentally drowns Chicken Little by throwing him into ariver. For 10 points, name this novel by Toni Morrison named for Nel's best friend. 
 Sula
7

122650-)
This poem describes "fine rosettes of lime" and "shapes like full-blown roses stained and lost through age."The speaker of this poem stares into eyes that have irises "backed and packed with tarnished tinfoil seenthrough the lenses of old scratched isinglass." In this poem, brown skin is compared to "ancient wallpaper,"and the narrator describes a "five-haired beard of wisdom" made of objects "like medals with their ribbonsfrayed." Near the end of this poem, the speaker recalls how "victory filled up" her little rented vehicle andexclaims, "everything was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!", after which she lets the title animal go. For 10 points,name this Elizabeth Bishop poem about an aquatic catch. 
"The Fish"
7

122658-)
A character in this novel meticulously splits the household bills equally with her husband, but gets paid lessat their shared architectural firm, Livotny and Associates. The protagonist of this novel finds a similaritybetween two Schumann piano pieces years after being proclaimed a prodigy by her mother, who was inspiredby a girl playing "Anitra's Dance" on television. In this novel, Waverly quits playing chess after her mother, aformer child bride named Lindo, brags about her excessively. This novel opens after the death of Suyuan Woo.This novel is named for the group of "aunties" who played Mah-jongg with the protagonist's mother. For 10points, name this novel by the Chinese-American writer Amy Tan. 
The Joy Luck Club 
7

122745-)
This author wrote, "Be not chimera of morning, half-man, half-star" in a poem inspired by WilliamCarlos Williams's "El Hombre". One of this author's poems describes "such novelties of the sublime,such tink and tank and tunk-a-tunk-tunk". Another poem by this author describes houses that are"haunted by white night-gowns" and later tells of a sailor who "catches tigers in red weather". In hispoem "A High-Toned Old Christian Woman", this author declared that "Poetry is the supreme fiction",a phrase he reused in the title of one of his long poems. Another of his poems includes the line, "Let bebe finale of seem". For 10 points, name this modernist American poet of "Disillusionment of TenO'Clock" and "The Emperor of Ice-Cream".
Wallace Stevens
7

122756-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

122758-)
In a novel by this author, the protagonist visits a pornographic bookstore run by Arthur Geiger at thebehest of a retired general. In another novel by this man, the protagonist realizes that a Mexican man isactually his friend Terry Lennox after plastic surgery. An unfinished book by this man was finished byRobert Parker and is called Poodle Springs. In yet another novel, he depicted Moose Malloy hiring theprotagonist to find his missing girlfriend. This man critiqued A. A. Milne's The Red House Mystery in hisessay "The Simple Art of Murder". His best known character frequently confronts femme fatales likeVivian Sternwood and Velma Valento. For 10 points, name this author whose novels Farewell, MyLovely and The Big Sleep feature his private eye Philip Marlowe.
Raymond Chandler [or Raymond Thornton Chandler]
7

122764-)
Near the end of this novel, caricatures of Adolf Hitler, Mao Zedong, and Karl Marx, among others,are targeted by six fighter planes. This novel features a character who insists that any Hoosier sheencounters call her "Mom". This novel's narrator finds a picture of a girl named Mona in anadvertisement that also reveals the identity of the Major General of a fictional country in the Caribbean,the Republic of San Lorenzo. This novel's narrator, who planned to write a book about the day of theHiroshima bombing, discovers the religion of Bokononism. In this novel, samples of a mysteriousalternative form of water are split by Felix Hoenikker's children. For 10 points, name this novel inwhich ice-nine causes the world to freeze, written by Kurt Vonnegut.
Cat's Cradle
7

122777-)
A character created by this author harbors a grudge against a woman who protested when he stolea piece of toast off of her plate, and accuses a friend of fabricating a story about a man who was sent toa hospital after being mugged. Another play by this author includes a monologue whose speaker saysthat we shouldn't trust God to deal with one-in-a-million occurrences. He wrote a play in which Donand Teach plan to rob a customer who had gotten a good deal on a rare coin from a junk shop. Inanother play by this writer, Ricky Roma successfully plays the role of the salesman with Lingk, andShelley Levine tries to buy a set of good real estate leads from his boss. For 10 points, name thisplaywright of American Buffalo and Glengarry Glen Ross.
David Mamet
7

122779-)
A stage direction in this play specifies that the face of a woman lying in bed after sex should "have that almost narcotized tranquility that is the faces of Eastern idols." A woman in this play warns that "In this dark march toward whatever it is we're approachingÂ… don't hang back with the brutes!" A man in this play tears a Chinese paper lantern to illuminate the face of his girlfriend. A character in this play always hears a gunshot at the end of the (*) polka tune "Varsouviana," because she had driven her husband to suicide by confronting him about his homosexuality while it was playing. The third scene of this play is a poker game where Mitch starts a relationship with the protagonist, who loses her family home, Belle Reve, to creditors. For 10 points, name this play in which Blanche DuBois moves in with her sister Stella, written by Tennessee Williams.
A Streetcar Named Desire 
7

122806-)
The animal instincts of this character's dog Hector are contrasted with the pomposity of Dr. Bat, who claims to have discovered a monster which turns out to just be a donkey. This character finds some ivory chess pieces in a chest, which he uses to ransom two men who have been kidnapped. He travels with Hurry Harry to an ark where Tom Hutter lives with Judith and Hetty. A scene in which this character is certain that he has hit a (*) target at a hundred yards in a shooting match is criticized as unbelievable in a Mark Twain essay. This character disguises himself as a bear to rescue a prisoner from a cave, and kills the villainous Magua, in a novel in which he is friends with the title character, Uncas. For 10 points, name this frontiersman, the hero of James Fenimore Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales.
: Natty Bumppo [accept either name; or Nathaniel Bumppo; prompt on "Hawkeye," "Deerslayer," "La Longue Carabine," "Leatherstocking," "the trapper," or "Pathfinder"] 
7

122834-)
A character created by this playwright tells his protege that you can't live on coffee, saying that he eats yogurt as well, "and it wouldn't kill you to take a vitamin." Shortly after, another of his characters complains about Ruthie remarking "Help yourself" after he took a piece of toast from Grace. A play by this man features an argument about whether an unseen character who was mugged was admitted to Columbia or Masonic Hospital. In a play by this man that opens at a Chinese (*) restaurant, the Patels are mocked in a discussion between Aaronow and Moss. Bobby and Teach appear in a play by this author set at Don's Resale Shop. At the end of his most famous play, the detective Baylen takes Shelley Levene into a room for questioning after he admits to stealing the leads. For 10 points, name this author of American Buffalo who wrote about real estate agents in Glengarry Glen Ross. 
David Mamet 
7

122842-)
2. A character with this condition walks dozens of blocks with his typewriter looking for an open pawnshop before realizing they are all closed for Yom Kippur. That character is the writer Don Birnam. A former anarchist with this condition frequently yells "The days grow hot, O Babylon!" A character with this condition is friends with Jacques Laruelle, and is shot by police just before his wife (*) Yvonne is trampled by a horse. This condition is the subject of the novel The Lost Weekend. A consul living in Quauhnahuac with this condition named Geoffrey Firmin is the protagonist of Under the Volcano. A number of sufferers of this condition hold onto their pipe dreams and await Theodore Hickman's visits in a play by Eugene O'Neill. For 10 points, name this condition suffered by most of the denizens of Harry Hope's bar in The Iceman Cometh.
alcoholism [prompt on "addiction"; accept clear equivalents] 
7

122876-)
. The "april touch" of a person of this kind "drove sleeping selves to warm their fates" in an E. E. Cummings poem concluding that "love is the whole and more than all." A person of this kind worked "in the blueblack cold" on Sundays in a poem by Robert Hayden. Another person of this kind "beat time on my head / With a palm caked hard by dirt" in a poem in which the speaker's "right ear scraped a buckle" with every (*) step this person missed. The speaker notes the dizzying potential of the whiskey on the breath of this sort of person in Theodore Roethke's poem about waltzing with him. Another person of this kind has a stake in his "fat black heart," inspiring the speaker to make a model consisting of a "man in black with a meinkampf look." That poem ends with the speaker telling this person: "You bastard, I'm through." For 10 points, name this sort of person who Sylvia Plath compared to a Nazi in that poem.
the poet's father [accept obvious synonyms, like the poet's daddy or the poet's papa; prompt on "the poet's parent" or similar answers] 
7

122891-)
The title character of a story by this author makes the toast "Here's mud in your eye" as she swallows twenty tablets of veronal. This author wrote "They hail you as their morning star / Because you are the way you are" about the title group of a poem ending "They make me sick, they make me tired." This author wrote that "three be the things I shall never attain: envy, content, and sufficient champagne" in the poem "Inventory," published in the collection (*) Enough Rope. This author wrote book reviews for The New Yorker under the byline "Constant Reader" and co-wrote the screenplay to A Star is Born with her husband Alan Campbell.  This author wrote that "Razors pain you; Rivers are damp" in her poem "Resume," which ends "Gas smells awful; you might as well live." For 10 points, name this American poet, a member of the Algonquin Round Table known for her acerbic wit.
Dorothy Parker 
7

122908-)
A poem about this war imagines an insect taking over the speaker's vision, and references Robert Southwell in saying that "the vision of a Burning Babe is multiplied." A soldier in this war superstitiously wears his girlfriend's stockings around his neck. This war is a major preoccupation in the work of Denise Levertov. A poem about this war begins "My black face fades, hiding inside the (*) black granite," and the speaker of that poem goes down a list of names of people killed in this war. It is the subject of "Facing It" by Yusef Komunyakaa. A short story collection about this war includes a story about Norman Bowker called "Speaking of Courage," and also tells of the characters Curt Lemon, Kiowa, and Jimmy Cross. For 10 points, name this war which is the setting of Tim O'Brien's The Things They Carried.
Vietnam War
7

122921-)
A character in a novel set in this city limps because, as a teenager, he was abducted by a doctor who ran his legs over with a car. The artistic couple Lara and Blaine get into an accident with the monk Corrigan, who tries to help the prostitutes Tillie and Jazzlyn, in a novel set in this city. This setting of Hanya Yanagihara's A Little Life and Colum McCann's Let the Great World Spin is also the focus of a novel in which a tryst with Shelly Thomas leads to the removal of Larry Kramer from the prosecution in the retrial of (*) Sherman McCoy, who hits Henry Lamb, a black kid, with his car. The cousins Joe and Sammy create "The Escapist," an anti-Nazi superhero, in a novel set in this city. For 10 points, name this setting of The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier &amp; Clay and The Bonfire of the Vanities, a searing critique of Wall Street.
New York City [or NYC] 
7

122935-)
A novel by this author begins with the question "What makes Iago evil?" and is about a woman whose father taught her that if you overturn a rock, there's likely to be a rattlesnake underneath. The protagonist of that novel by this author compulsively drives on the freeway, going nowhere in particular. She wrote a novel about the actress Maria ("Mar-eye-uh") Wyeth. This author's husband John (*) Gregory Dunne died while her daughter Quintana Roo lay unconscious in a hospital. One of her essays begins with the line "We tell ourselves stories in order to live." For 10 points, name this author of the novel Play It As It Lays and the memoir The Year of Magical Thinking, as well as essay collections like The White Album and Slouching Towards Bethlehem.
Joan Didion 
7

122964-)
In one appearance, this character is first encountered cutting down trees with the names of people like Crowninshield and Deacon Peabody written on them; he later attaches an apron containing a woman's heart and liver to another tree. In another appearance, this character reads another's palm, predicting that his sons will die in battle and that he will be called a turncoat. This character's opponent gives a (*) speech about how things like the taste of food when you're hungry are good things that sicken without freedom. Blackbeard and Simon Girty are members of a jury chosen by this character, who is defeated by a famous statesman in the trial of Jabez Stone. For 10 points, name this character who makes a deal with Tom Walker in a Washington Irving story, and who is opposed by Daniel Webster in a Stephen Vincent BenÃ©t story.
the Devil [or Old Scratch; or Mr. Scratch] 
7

122967-)
[missing]
[missing]
7

122987-)
A poem in this collection uses the metaphor of laying out a mousetrap to demonstrate that "a man can never avenge himself / On the monstrous ogre Life." Another poem in this collection describes a vicious cycle in which a boy steals an apple, can't find work because he is labeled a thief, and is forced to steal more to survive. This collection includes a poem warning "degenerate sons and daughters" that "Life is too strong for you -- it takes life to love Life." That poem is about Lucinda (*) Matlock. The best-known poem in this collection describes a woman "weddedÂ… not through union, but through separation" to Abraham Lincoln. This collection's first poem asks "Where are Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom, and Charley," and answers "All, all are sleeping on the hill." For 10 points, name this collection of musings by deceased residents of an Illinois town, by Edgar Lee Masters.
Spoon River Anthology 
7

122989-)
This novel's narrator is annoyed by a character singing "Does the Spearmint Lose Its Flavor on the Bedpost Overnight?" A character named Harding in this novel often boasts about his wife's large breasts. At the outset of this novel, the narrator promises that "it's the truth even if it didn't happen." In this novel, Charles Cheswick drowns himself in a swimming pool, and another character cuts his (*) throat because he's worried his mother will discover that he lost his virginity to a prostitute. This novel's narrator breaks a window with a control panel after using a pillow to smother the lobotomized main character, a boisterous inmate who engages in a power struggle with the "Big Nurse," Ratched. For 10 points, name this Ken Kesey novel about Randle McMurphy and the other inhabitants of a mental asylum. 
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest 
7

123021-)
The speaker of a poem by this author regrets not enjoying "All forests - stintless stars" and "As much of noon, as I could take" before having an eye put out. Another poem by this author describes an entity that forces the landscape to listen and shadows to hold their breath when it comes, and inflicts a scarless "heavenly hurt." In another poem by this author, the "Dews grew quivering and Chill." One of this poet's speakers (*) "signed away / What portion of me be / Assignable" in a room where a creature arrives with a "Blue - uncertain - stumbling Buzz." The speaker of her best-known poem "first surmised the Horses' Heads / Were toward Eternity" while sharing a carriage ride with Immortality and a being who "kindly stopped for me." For 10 points, name this poet of "I heard a fly buzz when I died" and "Because I could not stop for death."
Emily Dickinson [or Emily Elizabeth Dickinson] 
7

123049-)
This island "starts to hum / like music in a dream," and is made "paper-white" by a full moon in a poem by Elizabeth Bishop, who lived here with her Vassar classmate Louise Crane. A character who calls the inhabitants of this island "conchs" deals with the crooked lawyer Robert "Bee-lips" Simmons. This speaker of a poem asks his companion why the "glassy lights" on this island fixed "emblazoned zones and fiery poles, arranging, deepening, enchanting night," and finds himself arranged "in ghostlier demarcations, keener sounds." A fisherman who (*) smuggles Chinese and Cuban immigrants, named Harry Morgan, is based out of this island in To Have and Have Not. A house in this island overrun with polydactyl cats is where an author penned his story "The Snows of Kilimanjaro." For 10 points, name this island where Hemingway lived, the setting of a Wallace Stevens poem about its "Idea of Order."
Key West 
7

123070-)
One of this author's characters sticks a piece of paper to a doorframe with a knife and then shoots at it from across the street, missing it by half an inch. Another of his characters shows pictures of his lawyer son Michael and his dead daughter Carrie to a character who is sometimes addressed as "Stranger." A story by this author ends with a cowboy saying "I didn't do anythin', did I?" in response to the (*) Easterner's statement that "we, five of us" were responsible for the murder of a foreigner. In a story by this author, Scratchy Wilson decides not to shoot Jack Potter when he discovers he is newly married. In another of his stories, the Swede makes trouble during a card game in the title establishment. For 10 points, name this author of the short stories "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky" and "The Blue Hotel," as well as The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane
7

123075-)
The title character of this poem can take out some objects "in bunches like big birds' nests." The characters in this poem stop to see if a "small sailing cloud / Will hit or miss the moon." This poem opens with a woman "tip-toe[ing] down a darkened passage" to warn a man to "Be Kind." This poem's setting is "thirteen little miles / As the road winds" away from "a somebody - director in the bank," whose brother disapproves of a boy who "studied (*) Latin like the violin," named Harold Wilson. The sight of the title character of this poem collapsed against the barn door prompts the remark "Home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in." For 10 points, name this dialogue poem in which Warren and Mary disagree about how to treat their ex-employee Silas, written by Robert Frost.
"The Death of the Hired Man" 
7

123163-)
This poem describes an entity that "makes the willow shiver in the sun" for maidens who "taste / and stray impassioned in the littering leaves." This poem asks whether "boughs / hang always heavy in that perfect sky" at a place where there might be "no change of death." The first section of this poem concludes with a comparison of the day to "wide water" that is "stilled" so that "dreaming feet" might pass "over the seas, to silent Palestine." The "coffee and oranges in a sunny chair" lead a woman to question the divine promise of paradise in this poem, which repeats that "death is the mother of beauty" and opens by describing the "complacencies of the peignoir" (pay-NWAHR). For 10 points, name this poem by Wallace Stevens that is set in the early hours of the Lord's day.
"Sunday Morning"
7

123164-)
In a novel by this author, Hank Morgan takes over Merlin's position through time travel. This author of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court wrote a novel in which the deceitful Duke and Dauphin try to trick a boy who travels with Jim down the (*) Mississippi River. For ten points, name this American author of Huckleberry Finn and Tom Sawyer.
Mark Twain (accept Samuel Langhorne Clemens)
1

123177-)
This author of "The Rhodora" and the Harvard address "The American Scholar" wrote that "a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds" in one essay. This man rented his pond to Henry David Thoreau, a fellow (*) Transcendentalist. For ten points, name this American author of essays like "The Over-Soul" and "Nature."
Ralph Waldo Emerson
1

123185-)
In a novel by this author, Rosemary Hoyt comes between the protagonist and his wife, Nicole Diver, who is based on this author's wife, Zelda. In another novel by this author, (*) Jordan Baker cheats at golf, and the narrator's West Egg neighbor has an affair with Daisy Buchanan. For ten points, name this author of Tender is the Night and The Great Gatsby.
F(rancis) Scott (Key) Fitzgerald
1

123217-)
n this play, Thomas Danforth reveals that a doll made by Mary Warren has been found in the protagonist's home, skewered on a pin. In this play, Elizabeth's husband, John, has an affair with (*) Abigail Williams. Giles Corey demands "more weight" until he is crushed to death, and the slave Tituba is accused of casting curses in, for ten points, what play by Arthur Miller about the Salem witch trials?
The Crucible
1

123224-)
This poet of "Birches" wrote a poem in which "my little horse must think it queer" to stop in the title place, and said "I have promises to keep, / And miles to go before I sleep" in (*) "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening." "Two roads diverged in a yellow wood" in another poem by this American poet. For ten points, name this poet of "Fire and Ice" and "The Road Not Taken."
Robert Lee Frost
1

123261-)
This work's title character claims that the "Indians of Cleveland" will be defeated by The Great DiMaggio, and goes for eighty-four days without a catch before he hooks a giant marlin without (*) Manolin's help. The title fisherman's catch is eaten by sharks on the way back to Cuba in, for ten points, what novella about the elderly fisherman Santiago, written by Ernest Hemingway?
The Old Man and the Sea
1

123264-)
The speaker of this poem thinks that a phrase "caught from some unhappy master" is the only answer possible for the question "is there balm in Gilead," which he asks a character who has "perched upon a (*) bust of Pallas." The speaker tries to forget about a "radiant maiden" named Lenore, but is tormented by the title bird, who repeatedly caws "nevermore." For ten points, name this poem by Edgar Allen Poe.
The Raven
1

123297-)
A satirical work of this type by Ambrose Bierce claims that the French eat more bread than anyone else because "only they know how to make [wheat] palatable." An American work of this type used twenty-six languages to establish etymologies, and was written by Noah (*) Webster. Lexicographers create, For ten points, what books that provide the pronunciations and definitions of words?
dictionary (accept dictionaries)
1

123306-)
A poem by this man lists body parts like "upper-arm, armpit, elbow-socket," and he describes "drops of red / Where on the deck my Captain lies" in a poem for (*) Abraham Lincoln. "I Sing the Body Electric" is by this poet, who said "I celebrate myself and sing myself." For ten points, name this American poet whose collection Leaves of Grass includes "O Captain! My Captain!" and "Song of Myself."
Walt(er) Whitman
1

123328-)
This author created a lawyer's assistant who answers, "I would prefer not to" in response to every request in the story "Bartleby the Scrivener." In a novel by this man, a gold coin is nailed to the (*) Pequod's mast as an incentive for sailors like Queequeg and Ishmael. For ten points, name this author of a novel about Ahab's search for a white whale, Moby Dick.
Herman Melville
1

123362-)
This novel's protagonist becomes a flag-bearer when the 304th regiment is sent on a suicide mission. This novel's protagonist is hit with the butt of a rifle, but Wilson thinks he was grazed by a bullet. (*) Jim Conklin and the protagonist desert a battle in this novel, in which a "tattered soldier" asks Henry Fleming to show the title wound. For ten points, name this Civil War-era novel by Stephen Crane.
The Red Badge of Courage
1

123365-)
This author wrote a series of letters written under the name Jonathan Oldstyle. One of this man's title characters thinks he hears thunder in the Catskill Mountains, but it turns out to be men playing ninepins. In another short story by this author, (*) Brom Bones wins the heart of Katrina Van Tassel when Ichabod Crane vanishes. The headless horseman was created by, for ten points, what author of the stories "Rip Van Winkle" and "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow?"
Washington Irving
1

123375-)
A Herman Melville essay notes that this story's innocuous title is meant to deceive the "super cial skimmer of pages," who fails to see that this story is "deep as Dante." A character in this story mentions women poisoning their husbands' bedtime drinks as evidence that the whole earth is "one stain of guilt, one mighty blood-spot." When its protagonist dies, "no hopeful verse" is carved upon his tombstone because "his dying hour was gloom." While traveling with a man whose black staff resembles a living snake, the title character of this story meets Goody Cloyse and  nds his wife's pink ribbon hanging from a tree branch. The title character and his wife, Faith, are inducted into a Satanic cult in a forest clearing at the climax of, for 10 points, what short story by Nathaniel Hawthorne?
Young Goodman Brown"
7

123394-)
In this play, a student exits with the sarcastic line "goodnight, Prometheus," prompting another character to speculate that there's "no such thing" as "Prometheus." A character in this play, who o0en waters a "feeble little plant" on her windowsill, receives a gardening hat and tools as a gi0. In this play, a character dances and yells "OCOMOGOSIAY!" (oh-koh-moh-goh-"SIGH"-ay) while wearing a colorful dress gi0ed to her by a man who calls her "Alaiyo." At this play's climax, Bobo reveals that Willie has run off with money intended to open a liquor store. In this play, Karl Lindner's offer to buy back a house is rebuffed, and Walter and Ruth's family prepare to move into Clybourne Park, a white neighborhood. For 10 points, name this play featuring the Younger family, written by Lorraine Hansberry.
A Raisin in the Sun
7

123407-)
In a novel by this author, a man explains his intent to follow in the footsteps of a preacher who went into the wilderness to  nd his soul, only to discover that all he had was a "little piece of a great big soul." Henry is surprised to  nd that his wife looks "strong" a er she is visited by a tinker in a story by this author in which Elisa Allen takes pride in growing the title  owers. A novel by this author of "The Chrysanthemums" ends with a girl who has recently given birth to a stillborn baby smiling as she breastfeeds a starving old man in a barn; in that novel by this man, Jim Casy dies leading striking migrant workers, and Tom Joad's family journeys to California. For 10 points, name this novelist who depicted the hardships of Dust BowlÂ–era tenant farmers in The Grapes of Wrath.
John Steinbeck [or John Ernst Steinbeck Jr.]
7

123419-)
Correspondence between this woman and a male friend was adapted into a play by Sarah Ruhl and published in the collection Words in Air. In a poem by this author, the speaker thinks back on his time on an island that had "fire y-two / miserable, small volcanoes" before calling his current location "another island / that doesn't seem like one"; she wrote that Friday died of measles in that poem, "Crusoe in England." In another poem, she wrote that she lost her "mother's watch" and "two cities, lovely ones" before saying, "I miss them, but it wasn't a disaster." This poet described Brazilians sending fire balloons into the sky in a poem dedicated to Robert Lowell. For 10 points, name this poet of "The Armadillo" who wrote that "the art of losing isn't hard to master" in her villanelle "One Art."
Elizabeth Bishop
7

123455-)
A play on this title names Michael Gorra's literary biography about the "making of an American masterpiece." Chapter 42 of a novel with this title contains a modernist depiction of a woman's consciousness as she meditates on her marriage until 4 a.m. A poem with this title refers to the "sky where Watteau hung a lady's slipper" and asks "what sort of man was Fragonard?" That poem with this title by William Carlos Williams begins "your thighs are appletrees whose blossoms touch the sky." This is the title of a novel in which Countess Gemini reveals that Patsy is the love child of Madame Merle and Gilbert Osmond, whom the protagonist marries a er rejecting the proposals of Lord Warburton and Caspar Goodwood. For 10 points, what title refers to Isabel Archer in a novel by Henry James?
The Portrait of a Lady [or "Portrait of a Lady"; accept Portrait of a Novel: Henry James and the Making of an American Masterpiece before "novel"]
7

123503-)
A young woman created by this author selects "Melody Gloucester Pegasus" as the three magic words that will keep her safe as long as they are not spoken aloud; that girl, who dreams of living on the moon and has an af nity for the death cap mushroom in one of this author's novels, lives with her older sister Constance a er murdering most of their family via berries laced with arsenic. Merricat Blackwood appears in this author's novel We Have Always Lived in the Castle. She wrote a story in which Bobby Martin and Dickie Delacroix build a pile of stones, which the villagers remember to use despite having "lost the original black box" from which papers are drawn in an annual ritual. For 10 points, what author created Tessie Hutchinson, who is stoned to death in this author's story "The Lottery"?
Shirley Jackson [or Shirley Hardie Jackson]
7

123519-)
This author stated that "all who hide too well away / must speak and tell us where they are" at the end of a poem about the dif culty of honest communication. The title creature of a poem by this author "knows in singing not to sing" and proclaims the coming of "that other fall we name the fall"; that poem by this man describes an animal that "says the highway dust is over all" and asks "what to make of a diminished thing." In another poem, this author of "Revelation" wrote that he saw "one luminary clock against the sky" that "proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right" a er he "outwalked the furthest city light." This author of "The Oven Bird" and "Acquainted with the Night" wrote about paths that "diverged in a yellow wood" in another poem. For 10 points, name this poet of "The Road Not Taken."
Robert Frost [or Robert Lee Frost]
7

123605-)
A character in this profession imitates Barnes by smoking crack cocaine while trying to be "Time's  rst human author of perfection." A man with this job named Casi (CAH-see) corresponds with the mentally disabled Jalen Kingg and is convinced by Dane to defraud the police and a drug kingpin in Sergio De La Pava's A Naked Singularity. Harry Lutz and Harold Basie are characters in this profession who spar over Oscar Crease's play Once at Antietam in William Gaddis's novel A Frolic of His Own, a satire of this profession. In a novel published in 2015, a pamphlet titled "The Black Plague" is found in the study of a man with this job who defends Zeebo, a son of Calpurnia. For 10 points, name this profession of Jean Louise's father Atticus in Harper Lee's Go Set a Watchman.
awyers [or attorneys; or legal profession; accept public defenders or litigators]
7

123633-)
The stage directions for this play's longest speech prescribe that it be delivered with "a great deal of action" to cast a "hypnotic effect" over both the listening character and the audience. Upon refusing to move from a piece of furniture, a character in this play is asked "this iron and this wood, is this your honor?"; as that character in this play says that "naturally, every man wants a son," he is interrupted and told "that's the way the cookie crumbles." In this play, a resident of a rooming house that is home to a kimono-wearing "colored queen" tells a story about using a poisoned hamburger to try to kill the landlady's dog. Two strangers converse on a Central Park bench in, for 10 points, what one-act Edward Albee play that ends with Jerry impaling himself on a knife held by Peter?
The Zoo Story
7

124323-)
A character from this author's most famous novel is imprisoned for murdering M'Lissa, who killed that character's sister Dura in a clitoridectomy, in her later novel Possessing the Secret of Joy. That character is a member of the Olinka tribe who marries Adam, who himself was adopted by the missionary Samuel. This author described posing as another author's niece while searching for her grave in her essay (*) "Looking for Zora". In her most famous novel, Nettie sends the protagonist letters from Africa that are intercepted by her abusive husband Albert, or Mister. After breaking up with Germaine, the blues singer Shug Avery returns to the protagonist Celie at the end of that novel by this woman. For 10 points, name this African-American author of The Color Purple.
Alice Walker [or Alice Malsenior Walker] 
5

124325-)
A character this novel is asked to hold a paper rose and smile while having her picture taken, but she bursts into tears. A disastrous date in this novel ends with the "country club gentleman" Marco attempting to rape the protagonist. A spoiled batch of crab salad causes an outbreak of food poisoning in this novel, whose protagonist befriends Doreen after winning a scholarship donated by Philomena Guinea and has a tumultuous relationship with (*) Buddy Willard. It opens with the protagonist musing "It was a queer, sultry summer, the summer they electrocuted the Rosenbergs", before leaving for an internship at Ladies' Day in New York. For 10 points, name this novel about the suicidal writer Esther Greenwood, a thinly-disguised version of its author, Sylvia Plath.
The Bell Jar
5

124333-)
Several characters in this profession, including Crack, Dime, and the protagonist, discuss a film deal with Norman Oglesby and participate in a show with Destiny's Child at a Cowboys game in Ben Fountain's novel Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk. One character in this profession likes to suck on a white pebble from New Jersey sent to him by Martha and was a companion of Ted Lavender. Henry Dobbins, Curt Lemon, and (*) Rat Kiley are people of this profession who appear in a short story collection whose namesake story is titled for objects like comic books, love letters, flak jackets, and jungle boots. For 10 points, name this profession of Jimmy Cross, the protagonist of Tim O'Brien's short story "The Things They Carried".
soldiers [or American soldiers; or troops; or infantrymen; or servicemen; or Marines; or military employees]
5

124351-)
This author called time "the fatal wrack of mortal things" in the long poem Contemplations. A poem by this author includes the lines "I prize thy love more than whole Mines of gold" and "My love is such that Rivers cannot quench". One of this author's poems states "that fearful cry of 'fire' and 'fire,' let no man know was my desire". This poet is asked "moved you not restless, waiting for him?" in John Berryman's (*) "Homage" to her. She addressed a poem to the "ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain" and wrote the line "If ever two were one, surely we". This author of "To My Dear and Loving Husband" included her poem "The Author to Her Book" in The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung up in America. For 10 points, name this female Puritan poet from colonial Massachusetts.
Anne Bradstreet [or Mistress Bradstreet; or Anne Dudley]
5

124358-)
The protagonist of this novel is warned about "cloppers" by Tony Savo. A character in this novel spends five straight days explicating the various "thought units" of a difficult inyan, after which he is warned not to use his "scientific" method of reconstruction by his teacher. Another character in this novel tells a story about his brother's death in Auschwitz to explain why he raises his son in silence. After a character in this novel hits another in the face with a (*) line drive at a baseball game, they meet in a hospital, where one reveals his desire to become a Freudian psychologist, rather than a tzaddik as his father Reb Saunders wishes. For 10 points, name this novel about two boys, the Orthodox Reuven and the Hasidic Danny, by Chaim Potok.
The Chosen
5

124384-)
This author criticized pretentious directors and film theory in "I Can't Get That Monster Out of My Mind". In another work, she recalls playing the song "Wichita Lineman" to get an Ezra Pound quote out of her head. This author's interviews with Linda Kasabian, a former Manson family member, as well as her visits to Black Panther Party meetings and (*) Doors recording sessions, are chronicled in an essay that begins with the statement "we tell ourselves stories in order to live." She wrote about life in the aftermath of her husband in The Year of Magical Thinking and used a Yeats quote for the title of an essay on the Haight-Ashbury district in the 60's, "Slouching Towards Bethlehem." For 10 points, name this female American essayist of "The White Album".
Joan Didion
5

124405-)
The second act of a play by this man opens with a pair of speeches offering the mottoes "Enjoy Yourselves" and "Save the Family". Food poisoning-stricken actors, including Miss Somerset, have to be replaced in the third act of that play by this man, which features a maid named Lily Sabina and a member of the "Ancient and Honorable Order of Mammals" who invents the wheel. A dead woman attempts to relive her (*) twelfth birthday in another of this man's plays, whose cast includes the alcoholic choir director Simon Stimson. The Antrobus family survives an ice age in one of his plays, while the Stage Manager officiates the wedding of Emily Webb and George Gibbs in Grover's Corners in another. For 10 points, name this playwright of The Skin of Our Teeth and Our Town.
Thornton Wilder [or Thornton Niven Wilder]
5

124421-)
A man irritates others at this location by singing a sailor ditty written by either Ralph Waldo Emerson, Jonathan Edwards, or the dean of Harvard Divinity School. One of this location's occupants calls it "the last harbor" where "nobody has to worry about where they're going next", while another character here repeatedly recites a line of poetry beginning "The days grow hot, O Babylon!" Two Boer War veterans hang out in this building, which is where a character confesses to (*) murdering his wife Evelyn. Don Parritt jumps off a fire escape at this location, horrifying Larry Slade. For 10 points, identify this location operated by Harry Hope where "Hickey" Hickman encourages drunkards to abandon their "pipe dreams," the setting of Eugene O'Neill's The Iceman Cometh.
Harry Hope's saloon [accept equivalents such as "the saloon in The Iceman Cometh"; accept synonyms for "saloon" like bar or pub] 
5

124434-)
After an argument about this subject, April Wheeler sleeps with Shep Campbell in Richard Yates's Revolutionary Road. Another character begins performing this task after adopting the identity of "Fuzzy Stone". Dewey Dell is raped by MacGowan after he gives her a faulty substance intended to be used for this purpose in As I Lay Dying. Jig is told this practice is "really not anything... it's all perfectly natural" in Ernest Hemingway's (*) "Hills Like White Elephants", which repeatedly alludes to it as an "operation". In The Cider House Rules, Homer Wells follows in the footsteps of Dr. Wilbur Larch, who performs these procedures safely using his training as an obstetrician. For 10 points, name these medical procedures, long performed in secret on pregnant women.
performing abortions [or illegal abortions; prompt on "miscarriages"]
5

124447-)
Several characters in this novel are engaged in a lawsuit over a scheme in which the bones of American soldiers recovered from Lago di Pieta were used to make special charcoal. A society dedicated to a Confederate captain who clashed with the Russian Navy, Peter Pinguid, is revealed to this novel's protagonist at a bar called The Scope by Mike Fallopian. The protagonist attends a production of Richard (*) Wharfinger's play The Courier's Tragedy in this novel, in which a recurring muted post-horn symbol points to the existence of an underground postal service called Trystero. Its protagonist travels to San Narciso after being named executor of Pierce Inverarity's estate. For 10 points, name this postmodern tale about Oedipa Maas, the shortest novel by Thomas Pynchon.
The Crying of Lot 49 
5

124463-)
This author described an actor who disguises himself as an old black man to pay a debt to Major Talbot. He also wrote about the homeless man Soapy, who tries to get arrested so he can spend the winter indoors. This author of "The Duplicity of Hargraves" and "The Cop and the Anthem" created the artist Behrman, who paints the title object while Johnsy is bedridden with pneumonia. In another of this author's stories, Bill and Sam's plans are thwarted after Ebenezer Dorset demands payment in exchange for taking back his kidnapped son. For 10 points, name this author of "The Last Leaf" and "The Ransom of Red Chief" whose collection The Four Million also includes "The Gift of the Magi".
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
7

124472-)
A member of this family notes that while little men are hung by the thumbs for mistakes, "the big ones become ambassadors". Another of its members says there is a God because "otherwise anything could happen". A boy enters this family's yard to play "jail", the mention of which angers the matriarch. Using a horoscope, Frank says a member of this family went missing on his "favorable day" and thus is still alive, even though an apple tree was planted in his memory. A member of this family is engaged to Ann Deever, the daughter of an imprisoned former business partner of this family's patriarch, who is the one actually responsible for selling damaged aircraft parts to the military during World War II. For 10 points, name this family of Larry and Joe in Arthur Miller's play All My Sons.
Keller
7

124483-)
This poem describes the "song of the bleeding throat" sung by a "hermit withdrawn to himself", telling him, "If thou wast not granted to sing thou would'st surely die". In this poem, the speaker encounters a gray-brown bird of the swamps, which impels his spirit to sing, "Come lovely and soothing death, undulate round the world". In a middle section of this poem, the speaker apostrophizes a "coffin that passes through lanes and streets" and offers to it the title object. This poem describes how "the great star early droop'd in the western sky in the night", referring to an event also described in the same poet's "O Captain! My Captain!". For 10 points, name this Walt Whitman poem, an elegy for Abraham Lincoln.
"When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd"
7

124491-)
In a book titled for the "visual text" of this poet, Henry M. Sayre compared the artistic merit of one of his poems to that of Duchamp's Fountain, noting the importance of its "banal, trivial" nature. This poet wrote of the "twiggy stuff" of bushes and trees, "They enter the new world naked, cold, uncertain of all save that they enter". One of his short poems describes a cat that "climbed over the top of the jamcloset" and "into the pit of the empty flowerpot". This author of "Poem" and "Spring and All" wrote a poem whose speaker says, "forgive me they were delicious", after admitting he ate the plums in the icebox. For 10 points, name this poet of "This Is Just to Say" who described an object "glazed with rain water beside the white chickens" in "The Red Wheelbarrow".
William Carlos Williams
7

124514-)
In a novel by this author, a character's claim that her entire family is dead is shown to be a lie when her entire family arrives from Madrid, Texas. A character created by this author rants at her stepmother after finding her mother's old breadboard has been ruined. In a story by this author, the narrator is woken up at 6:30 a.m. when her uncle throws firecrackers in her room. A novel by this author centers on the death and funeral of a Mount Salus judge, who dies while recovering from an eye surgery in New Orleans. A story by this author is set on the Fourth of July after Stella-Rondo returns home with the two-year-old Shirley-T. For 10 points, name this Mississippian author of The Optimist's Daughter and "Why I Live at the P.O.".
Eudora Welty 
7

124525-)
The speaker of this poem still sighs for a "dark downward and vegetating kingdom" that has been destroyed. This poem describes a man who is "as lean as a compass needle" and "has an angry wrenlike vigilance, a greyhound's gentle tautness". This poem describes some "yellow dinosaur steamshovels" that "were grunting as they cropped up tons of mush and grass to gouge their underworld garage". This poem, set in a "Sahara of snow" where an aquarium used to be, ends with the lines, "a savage servility slides by on grease". This poem's speaker recalls how William James "could almost hear the bronze Negroes breathe" at the dedication of the monument it describes. For 10 points, name this poem about the Robert Gould Shaw Memorial in Boston written by Robert Lowell.
"For the Union Dead"
7

124531-)
A character in this poem "moves in darkness" that is greater than that of the woods or that of the "shade of trees". This poem derides hunters by claiming that "they would have the rabbit out of hiding to please the yelping dogs". This poem's speaker emphatically declares, "Stay where you are until our backs are turned!" in describing a sort of "outdoor game" that only has one player on either side. This poem describes boulders as being sometimes shaped like loaves and sometimes shaped like balls. This poem's talkative speaker walks with a surly neighbor who twice recites his father's saying that "Good fences make good neighbors". For 10 points, name this poem about fixing a barrier by Robert Frost.
"Mending Wall"
7

124533-)
The title character of a poem by this author keeps his wife "in his mammoth fold" and fastens his children in the pen on an election day back when "people were not democrats". Another of his poems describes "gulfs enchanted... where the cold sea-maids rise to sun their streaming hair". This author of "The Dorchester Giant" and coiner of the term "Boston Brahmin" praised a "meteor of the ocean air" whose "thunders shook the mighty deep" in a poem whose speaker exclaims, "Tear her tattered ensign down!". This poet described a "ship of pearl" in a poem in which he hears a voice singing, "Build thee more stately mansions, O my soul". For 10 points, name this author of "Old Ironsides" and "The Chambered Nautilus".
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
7

124554-)
One character in this novel intentionally overeats to gain weight because his wife hurts him every time he tries to beat her. Another character in this novel scars his face to match that of the girl he wants to marry, a member of an African tribe that worships roofleaves, the Olinka. This novel's protagonist starts a business making pants after moving to Tennessee with a singer known as the Queen Honeybee. A woman in this novel is sentenced to twelve years in jail for attacking the mayor after his wife asks her to be their maid. In this novel, the protagonist discovers her husband has been hiding letters from her sister Nettie, which are recovered with help from Shug Avery. For 10 points, name this epistolary novel in which Celie addresses many letters to God, a work of Alice Walker.
The Color Purple
7

124566-)
The last verse paragraph of a longer poem by this author begins, "The world stands out on either side, no wider than the heart is wide". In a poem by this writer, a mother who sings while making a pair of mittens and a little blouse tells her son, "you've need of clothes to cover you, and not a rag have I". The speaker of another poem by this writer sees "three islands in a bay" and traces "the line of the horizon". This poet of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" wrote a poem at the age of 19 that begins, "All I could see from where I stood was three long mountains and a wood". In a short poem by her, the speaker says, "My candle burns at both ends, it will not last the night". For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote "Renascence" and "First Fig".
Edna St. Vincent Millay
7

124577-)
A character with this surname is amused by the buttons on a telephone while requesting an ambulance for a resident of 244 East 87th Street. This surname is borne by a character who notes that "history is about to crack wide open" before ominously stating that "millennium approaches". That character with this surname would probably still be alive today writing for Ms. magazine if not for the efforts of Roy Cohn, who is haunted by a character with this surname while dying of AIDS in the play Angels in America. The opening line of Sylvia Plath's The Bell Jar mentions that the novel takes place during "the summer that they electrocuted" two people with this surname. For 10 points, give this surname shared by Julius and Ethel, who were accused of spying for the Soviet Union.
Rosenberg
7

124604-)
This character makes a lambrequin to hang on the mantel to impress a man who doesn't even notice it. She earns fifty dollars per week sewing collars and cuffs at a factory. This character is ditched by her date for a "woman of brilliance and audacity" named Nellie. This character's mother screams, "I'll fergive her!" at the end of the short novel in which she appears. Earlier, she is accused by her mother of having "gone teh d' devil" after leaving home for three weeks to stay with the bartender Pete. After being scorned by her brother Jimmie, this character is forced to become a prostitute and is murdered. For 10 points, name this title character of a novel by Stephen Crane, a "Girl of the Streets".
Maggie Johnson [or Maggie Johnson]
7

124616-)
A poem by this author apostrophizes a building, saying, "no pleasant talk shall e'er be told, nor things recounted done of old", and contrasts it with a house "purchased and paid for, too, by Him who hath enough to do". That poem by this author concludes, "The world no longer let me love, my hope and treasure lie above". This poet claimed to value a lover "more than whole mines of gold, or all the riches that the East doth hold". She wrote, "If ever two were one, then surely we", in that poem addressed to her husband. She also described the destruction of her house in a poem about a 1666 fire. For 10 points, name this author of the collection The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America and wife of a governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony.
Anne Bradstreet
7

124619-)
A character created by this author gives a monologue beginning "I always worry that maybe people aren't going to like me". That character of his is a military cadet who commits suicide after revealing that he is half-Jewish. In a play by this author, a waitress is flattered to hear that her older admirer, Gerald Lyman, has been arrested for making sexual advances on children. He expanded his first play, Farther Off from Heaven, into his play about the dysfunctional Flood family, The Dark at the Top of the Stairs. Bo Decker pursues the nightclub singer Cherie to the title location of a play by this writer, in which a snowstorm forces a group of people to seek shelter in a restaurant west of Kansas City. For 10 points, name this Midwestern American playwright of Bus Stop and Picnic.
William Inge
7

124641-)
In a novel by this author, a Eugenio Montale translator ends his "cafard" by moving into a house with yellow walls. He wrote about a teenage boy who spends three weeks in bed before being cured by Swami Rutuola in a novel centering on the lives of the two men Hammer and Nailles. In a short story by this author of Bullet Park, Irene Westcott overhears a man beating his wife while spying on her neighbors using the title device. In another short story, he created a man who thinks his wife Lucinda is at the Westerhazy's as the seasons change as he travels home through many of the county's pools. For 10 points, name this American author of "The Enormous Radio" and "The Swimmer".
John Cheever
7

124667-)
One character in this novel believes only courage and shrewdness are required to be successful, the former of which he has and the latter of which he can acquire. Another character in this novel nails himself in his attic and starves to death after his store is looted. After putting down a slave rebellion in Haiti, a man in this novel returns to the United States and gets a hundred miles of land from a drunken Indian. Shreve narrates parts of this novel set in a cold Harvard bedroom. Henry murders Charles Bon to prevent him from marrying Judith in this novel narrated by Rosa Coldfield and Quentin Compson. For 10 points, name this biblically titled novel about the life of Thomas Sutpen, a work of William Faulkner.
Absalom, Absalom! 
7

124675-)
In a play set in this state, a man is berated for missing the funeral of the family patriarch, who is later revealed to be his actual father. A play set here ends with a maid repeating the line "This is the way the world ends", and details the effects of Beverly Weston's suicide on his drug-addicted wife, Violet. Muley Graves angrily refuses to leave his farm in this state. This state is the setting of a 2007 play by Tracy Letts and the location of McAlester prison in a novel that opens with its protagonist being paroled from his homicide charge. The drama August: Osage County is set here, and it is the starting point of a journey to California that is undertaken by Jim Casy. For 10 points, name this home state of the Joad family in John Steinbeck's The Grapes of Wrath.
Oklahoma
7

124687-)
A character who lives in this city constantly recalls how he once worked a day in a grocery store in exchange for a ham that he was never given. An owner of a restaurant in this city rejects a buyout offer of 10,000 dollars from a funeral home owner. At the end of a play set in this city, a World War II veteran blows his trumpet to open the gates of heaven for his father, but no sound comes out. This city's residents include Aunt Ester, who is supposedly 322 years old in the play Two Trains Running. In another play set here, a garbageman chastises his son for leaving his job at the A&amp;P to play football. For 10 points, name this city home to Troy Maxson in Fences, and which titles a cycle of plays written by August Wilson.
Pittsburgh
7

124714-)
A character in this novel is an abolitionist who joins the Confederate Army but vows not to kill anyone because he feels guilty over the suicide of his friend Duncan. That character in this novel is obsessed with finding the slave Phebe, who discovered his affair with Annabelle Trice. The narrator of this novel adopts a nihilist, random view of life after giving an old man with a facial twitch a ride back east. Its narrator researches his ancestor, Cass Mastern, but eventually gives up and enters what he calls the Great Sleep. Near the end of this novel, Dr. Adam Stanton shoots a man to death at the Capitol building. It is narrated by reporter Jack Burden, who is the aide to the Huey Long-inspired politician Willie Stark. For 10 points, name this novel by Robert Penn Warren.
All the King's Men
7

124716-)
A novel written by an author with this surname concludes with thirteen men dying in succession while trying to obtain clean water. A character created by an author with this last name contemplates the meaning of a quote about the "madness of art" after reading Henry James's story "The Middle Years". An author with this surname described a member of the Trotta family saving the emperor from a sniper at Solferino in his novel Radetzky March. A writer with this surname wrote a book in which Amy Bellette may actually be Anne Frank, The Ghost Writer. That author with this surname wrote about the "Swede", who is haunted by his daughter's act of terrorism, in a novel narrated by Nathan Zuckerman. For 10 points, give the surname of the author of American Pastoral and Portnoy's Complaint.
Roth [or Joseph Roth; or Philip Roth]
7

124735-)
A character in this novel is an abolitionist who joins the Confederate Army but vows not to kill anyone because he feels guilty over the suicide of his friend Duncan. That character in this novel is obsessed with finding the slave Phebe, who discovered his affair with Annabelle Trice. The narrator of this novel adopts a nihilist, random view of life after giving an old man with a facial twitch a ride back east. Its narrator researches his ancestor, Cass Mastern, but eventually gives up and enters what he calls the Great Sleep. Near the end of this novel, Dr. Adam Stanton shoots a man to death at the Capitol building. It is narrated by reporter Jack Burden, who is the aide to the Huey Long-inspired politician Willie Stark. For 10 points, name this novel by Robert Penn Warren.
All the King's Men
7

124737-)
A novel written by an author with this surname concludes with thirteen men dying in succession while trying to obtain clean water. A character created by an author with this last name contemplates the meaning of a quote about the "madness of art" after reading Henry James's story "The Middle Years". An author with this surname described a member of the Trotta family saving the emperor from a sniper at Solferino in his novel Radetzky March. A writer with this surname wrote a book in which Amy Bellette may actually be Anne Frank, The Ghost Writer. That author with this surname wrote about the "Swede", who is haunted by his daughter's act of terrorism, in a novel narrated by Nathan Zuckerman. For 10 points, give the surname of the author of American Pastoral and Portnoy's Complaint.
Roth [or Joseph Roth; or Philip Roth]
7

124757-)
A character created by this author claims that there is only knowledge and no education after concluding that it is bread, and not religion nor any other ideology, that is the opium of the people. That character of his relays the results of a Notre Dame football game to Sister Cecilia. The ending of a story by this writer contrasts a person who repeats the phrase "I feel fine" with her lover, who orders another Anis del Toro and comments on people waiting reasonably for a train. He wrote about a man who tries to convince Jig to have an abortion in Spain. For 10 points, name this American author of "Hills Like White Elephants" who also used Spain as the setting for his novel about Robert Jordan, For Whom the Bell Tolls.
Ernest Hemingway
7

125191-)
This poem describes metaphysics discussions with a man who pretends his jaundice is a tan, before the speaker recalls a time when he had never heard of the Jehovah's Witnesses. In the last stanza of this poem, its speaker lists the following objects: "a portable radio, a dresser, two toy American flags tied together with a ribbon of Easter palm." This poem's speaker recalls his daughter, who is young enough to be his granddaughter, "ris[ing] in her flame-flamingo infants' wear" in a house of "hardly passionate (*) Marlborough Street," which contrasts with the central location. The speaker of this poem sees the "T-shirted back" of its title character, who has a "little segregated cell full of things forbidden to the common man." Inspired by the the poet's imprisonment for conscientious objection during World War II, for 10 points, name this poem by Robert Lowell, partly titled for the Murder Incorporated hitman he met in jail.
"Memories of West Street and Lepke"
9

125221-)
Several characters in this play discover that they can no longer make their hands into fists, due to drinking far too many glasses of ouzo, after singing a folk song that begins with the lyrics "Shama, shama." When one character in this play is reminded of "six wonderful days at the Plaza Hotel," another points out that "six days does not a week make." While complaining about one character's behavior at an Albanian restaurant in Staten Island one character in this play contrasts the "Watchers" with the "Doers."  Snow falls through a hole in the (*) skylight at the end of this play's second act, after a wife calls her husband a "stuffed shirt" during a fight. One protagonist of this play sets up her widowed mother Ethel with an eccentric neighbor named Victor Velsaco. For 10 points, cautious Paul won't join his spontaneous new wife Corie for a stroll in Washington Square in winter in what play by Neil Simon?
Barefoot in the Park
9

125234-)
While looking out of a window, a character in this novel sees a dog grab her favorite puppy with her teeth and lift its hind leg in order to teach it to pee standing up. As a child, the protagonist of this novel was molested by her uncle's friend Major Boam. This novel begins with its protagonist stealing a mink coat from her lover in revenge for him violently tearing her dress the night before. This novel ends with its protagonist being mangled by falling into the wheel of a steamboat, and fictionalizes the last days of the socialite (*) Starr Faithfull. The first two letters of this novel's title are capitalized, as its title refers to an old telephone exchange name used in Manhattan. This 1935 novel focuses on the affair between Weston Liggett and Gloria Wandrous. Published one year after its author's first novel, Appointment in Samarra, for 10 points, name this novel by John O'Hara.
BUtterfield 8
9

125236-)
In a passage of this book, the author is told about a man who was forced to perform with lipstick around his navel and a paper bag on his head until he was physically unable to move. This book opens with the narrator being mistaken for part of the Episcopalian bishop's convention that is in town. The narrator of this book describes being made to perform in a comedy sketch about a "truth machine" in the "rookie show." George Wilson was aware of the plan at the center of this book, which became apparent to Joe Schmidt and Wayne (*) Walker after the protagonist of this book lost yardage on five consecutive plays. This book's gimmick was applied to hockey in the later book Open Net, in which the author played in goal for the Boston Bruins. For 10 points, name this 1966 book of "participatory journalism" in which George Plimpton tried to become the third-string quarterback for Detroit's NFL team.
Paper Lion: Confessions of a Last-String Quarterback
9

125250-)
This author created a philosopher who argues that human souls cannot be measured by divine standards just like clocks in China should not be set to the time in Greenwich. In a novel by him, a woman admires an old Frenchman's tattoos, and then shocks onlookers by lifting her skirt to show off her own. This author included a dedication to the "Imperial Purple Majesty" of Mount Greylock in a novel that features a pamphlet on "Chronometricals and Horologicals" written by (*) Plotinus Plinlimmon. The protagonist of that novel by him has a vision of Enceladus and, with his half-sister Isabel, drinks poison in The Tombs. In a novel by this author, a man who is crippled by a swollen leg is given Kory-Kory as a servant by king Mehevi. This author gained fame for a novel about Tom and Toby, who leave the ship Dolly to encounter the title people on the island of Nuku Heva in Polynesia. For 10 points, name this American author of Pierre: or, the Ambiguities and Typee.
Herman Melville
9

125285-)
In an opera libretto within a novel, this man dresses in a suit of armor and leaps from a flaming airplane over Africa. That libretto about this man was abortively begun as a child by a Czech immigrant named after Thomas Masaryk. A man named Sam claims to be "haunted by dreams" of this man, who is compared to "Clark Kent in a phone booth," in the first line of Michael Chabon's The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, whose first section is titled after this man's profession. In a novel, this man is told to "warn the (*) Duke" by Little Boy, presaging his meeting with Franz Ferdinand on a European trip. This man's real-life attempts to expose fraudulent sÃ©ances is fictionalized in a novel in which one of his performances is interrupted by the blowing up of a firehouse by a gang led by Coalhouse Walker. For 10 points, name this historical figure who appears in E.L. Doctorow's Ragtime, a magician and escape artist.
Harry Houdini [accept Erik Weisz or Harry Weiss]
9

125304-)
One character in this play describes how his "best customer" whispered in his ear "You're only yourself when no one's watching." Another character in this play gets a size 6 1/2 ring for his girlfriend's size 7 finger, because he wants it to be impossible for her to remove it once she accepts it. A repeated point of argument in this play is over two five-hundred dollar inheritances left when two parents abandoned their children. Act Two of this play begins with a nice tablecloth covering a table made from a board perched on two milk crates, as one character gets stood up by his unseen girlfriend (*) Grace. Like its author's earlier character of Foundling Father from The America Play, one protagonist in this play has the job of impersonating a president in whiteface at a carnival so that patrons can fake assassinating them. Its other protagonist wishes to learn how to deal three-card monte from his brother. For 10 points, name this play about Lincoln and Booth by Suzan-Lori Parks.
Topdog/Underdog
9

125318-)
In one of this author's stories, Batman and Commissioner Gordon begin conversing in French, after it is revealed that Robin is doing badly in French at Andover. In another of his stories, a man wrangling porcupines is confronted by a Gatling gun-wielding dean, who doesn't want them to enroll at his university. He wrote a story in which a teacher has sex in a cloakroom with a sixth-grader who is constantly worried about his height, because he's actually a thirty-five-year-old insurance claims adjuster. The protagonist is betrayed by his love Sylvia to the Comanches in his story "The (*) Indian Uprising." In another story by him, every living thing adopted by a schoolÂ—including trees, tropical fish, and a Korean orphanÂ—dies mysteriously. Although he repeatedly said: "fragments are the only forms I trust," he wrote novels, including a retelling of Snow White. For 10 points, name this American postmodernist, whose collections include Come Back, Dr. Caligari, Sixty Stories, and Forty Stories.  
Donald Barthelme
9

125345-)
One work by this author is a series of get well letters to a fourth grader who suffers from osteomyelitis and is hospitalized after being hit by a car. This author wrote about a woman who hears the screams of her downstairs neighbors which she attributes to the neighbor's orgasms when masturbating with a musical instrument. In addition to "Mildred and her Oboe" and "We Miss You," this author wrote a story in which a man tallies how much money he spent each day that he was with his lover in a hotel. A story that consists entirely of the (*) sentences, "She knows she is in Chicago. But she does not yet realize she is in Illinois," explains why she is frequently called "the world's most concise short story writer." Her collections include Varieties of Disturbance, Can't and Won't, and Break It Down.  For 10 points, name this American author, who also produced acclaimed English translations of Swann's Way in 2002 and Madame Bovary in 2010.
Lydia Davis
9

125359-)
One character in this work has a packet of matches inscribed with the words, "These Matches Were Stolen from Bob and Edie Burwick's House." Reading the word "happy" later causes this work's narrator to slam a diary shut. That diary in this work relates a story about a Buddhist master who states that a dead cat is the most valuable thing because no one can put a price on it, leading the diarist to answer a question about his future plans by saying that he would like to be a dead cat. The narrator is mistaken for Dickie Braganza by Mrs. (*) Silsburn, and forms a bond with a tiny man in a top hat, who turns out to be the deaf-mute uncle of the father of the bride, at a wedding that the narrator attends after receiving a letter from his sister Boo-Boo. Taking its title from a Sappho line that Buddy finds written on his bathroom mirror, for 10 points, name this novella by J. D. Salinger about Seymour Glass' wedding.
Raise High the Roof Beam, Carpenters 
9

125374-)
In one story, this author imagined a lesbian affair between the amanuenses for Henry James and Joseph Conrad. This author used Harold Bloom's taxonomy of "strong" and "weak poets" as an example of the way veneration of literature violates the Second Commandment in the essay "Literature as Idol." In a novel by this author of "Dictation," a man who declares himself to be the lost son of Bruno Schulz meets the real daughter of Schulz with his real lost manuscript; that man is Lars Andemenin. This author created a recurring character who raises a female golem that gets her elected Mayor of New York. This author of The (*) Messiah of Stockholm and The Puttermesser Papers is most famous for a short story that ends with Rosa swallowing her daughter Magda's saliva off the title object, after Magda is tossed against the electrified fence of a concentration camp. For 10 points, name this Jewish-American author of "The Shawl."
Cynthia Ozick
9

125405-)
Description acceptable. This character contemplates stabbing her husband with sewing scissors after hearing him lecture a character to "wake up." While on the verge of consummating the relationship with the man to whom she tells her deepest thoughts, they are interrupted by a clerk throwing a box into a pile of trash, and they never see each other again. That man calls this woman "You dear! You dear! You lovely dear!", a phrase which is spoken to her dead body by her son. Her son never receives the $800 she has hidden for him in a box by her bed, which was given to her by her father, who owned the (*) hotel where she lives. She has a secret understanding with a doctor who stuffs crumpled-up pieces of paper into his pockets, Dr. Reefy. This character's son has sex with Louise Trunnion in a berry field, and has a confusing sexual experience with his teacher Kate Swift. For 10 points, name this character whose son ends up leaving the town of Winesburg, Ohio after her death.
Elizabeth Willard [or Elizabeth Willard; accept "George Willard's mother" or "Mrs. Willard"; prompt on just "Willard"]
9

125425-)
This fictional Michigan alum is the author of a column in a magazine handed out freely to returning veterans called "What Makes That News?" This character uses his discharge from the Marines due to a pancreas condition as the basis for the lost novel Night Wing and goes on to have some success with his novel Blue Autumn.  This character's ex-wife, a golfing instructor, chastises him for reading Roethke's "Meditation" at a gravesite.  He uncomfortably receives a kiss on the cheek from a fellow member of the (*) Haddam Divorced Men's Club. This man travels to Detroit with his girlfriend on an assignment to interview Herb Wallagher, a paralyzed former football player.  Prior to the events of his first novel, his wife X divorces him after his son Ralph dies from Reye's syndrome.  For 10 points, name this New Jersey resident, the protagonist of Independence Day and The Sportswriter by Richard Ford.
Frank Bascombe [accept either name] 
9

125449-)
In describing an object consisting of a "single hurt color and an arrangement in a system to pointing," this poet concluded: "the difference is spreading." A "stanza" by this poet consists of the single line "I wish that I had spoken only of it all." One of this author's poems concludes: "The care with which there is incredible justice and likeness, all this makes a magnificent asparagus, and also a fountain." This poet wrote "Certainly I come having come / These stanzas are done" to close out the eighty-third and last of the Stanzas in (*) Meditation. This poet included "A carafe, that is a blind glass" among the "Objects" of a collection also divided into "Food" and "Rooms." Her penchant for repetitive wordplay is seen in a poem that starts "Compose compose beds," her 367-line poem "Sacred Emily." For 10 points, name this American poet whose collection Tender Buttons may be a coded account of her lesbian relationship with Alice B. Toklas.
Gertrude Stein
9

125473-)
These things burn "like Satanic blue flames" when lit up by corpusants. These things are hypothesized to be the result of escaping the Thirty Years' War with just a "sticking-plaster shirt." They comprise "an interminable, Cretan labyrinth of a figure" and represent a "complete theory of the heavens and the earth" created by a prophet from their owner's home. One of these things is printed as the signature of a man said to be a regular member of Deacon Deuteronomy's meeting. They are compared to the Zodiac signs adorning a doubloon, and they belong to a man who was once accidentally called (*) "Hedgehog" by Peleg. Their checkerboard pattern is compared to that of a bedspread in the chapter "The Counterpane." They are first observed in a room of The Spouter Inn during a scene in which their owner pulls out a tomahawk pipe and stuffs a shrunken head into a bag. For 10 points, name these works of body art decorating the skin of Ishmael's South Sea islander harpooner companion.
Queequeg's tattoos
9

125495-)
A poem by this author describes a figure who sees underwater: "the sad slow / dance of gilded / chairs" and "the ectoplasmic / swirl of garments." The speaker of one of this author's poems has a vision of angels at war with each other in a "brightness / so bright that it was darkness." Another of this author's poems describes ships with "bright ironical names / like jests of kindness on a murderer's mouth." That poem by this author parodies Shakespeare with the refrain "Deep in the festering hold thy father lies." His collection A Ballad of (*) Remembrance includes the "The Ballad of Nat Turner."  He asked: "What did I know / of love's austere and lonely offices?" in a poem that describes listening to his hard-working father splintering wood to build fires on weekend mornings. He wrote about the slave trade in his poem "Middle Passage." For 10 points, name this 20th-century African-American poet of "Those Winter Sundays."
Robert Hayden [or Asa Bundy Sheffey] 
9

125502-)
This director made an experimental film using a tin plate in each of its 4,444 frames to reflect different Kinds of Light for one frame apiece. In a memoir, he recalled being inspired by a doorknob spinning around on the floor on the day his Brando-obsessed father died fixing a squeaky mattress. He partly named one film for a figure in French Canadian lore who is so beautiful that her onlookers turn into gems; in another of his films, the viewers of a grotesque carnival show slowly turn into eyeballs. This director of The (*) Medusa v. The Odalisque and Cage (III) - Free Show was buried with the master tape of his last film in his skull after he stuck his head in a microwave oven; that film features his lover Joelle van Dyne, who assumed the veiled identity of Madame Psychosis after this man's death. For 10 points, name this fictional director of a film sought by Quebecois terrorists whose viewers lose interest in anything else, Infinite Jest (V).
James Orin Incandenza, Jr. [or James Jr.; prompt on Incandenza; prompt on Himself] 
9

125533-)
This character is educated in a two-story schoolhouse of such labyrinthine design that one cannot tell on which floor one is, at any given time. Upon leaving a party, this character is shocked to find that a visitor left behind a cloak of rare furs resembling one that he himself designed. At the end of the work in which he appears, a mirror appears, and this character sees his own reflection dabbled in blood. While attempting to seduce an Italian noblewoman at a (*) masquerade, he is confronted by a man in a blue velvet cloak and black silk mask. He meets his main enemy, who cannot speak above a low whisper, while they are students at a walled academy run by Dr. Bransby. After this character bankrupts Glendinning at cards, this man's enemy bursts in to demonstrate that he is cheating, forcing this man to flee Oxford. For 10 points, identify this namesake of an Edgar Allan Poe short story who, upon stabbing his doppelganger, finds that he has destroyed himself.
William Wilson [accept either underlined portion; accept "the narrator of William Wilson"] 
9

125552-)
A literary critic with this last name claimed that the essence of narrative is causing readers to desire an end, but this desire can be subverted by our compulsion to repeat, in a theory derived from Beyond the Pleasure Principle. Another author with this last name wrote that "the warping of a statement by the context" produces the essential poetic quality of irony. The essay "Freud's Masterplot" appears in Reading for the Plot by an author with first name Peter and this last name. Another critic with this last name argued that because a poem's "internal (*) unity" is embedded in its structure, no summary of a poem can say the same thing as the poem itself. With Robert Penn Warren, that author with this last name wrote Understanding Poetry; and he included "The Heresy of Paraphrase" in a collection of essays taking its title from John Donne's "The Canonization." For 10 points, name this last name of the New Critic Cleanth, who wrote The Well-Wrought Urn.
Brooks [accept Cleanth Brooks or Peter Brooks
9

125558-)
In the opening section of one of this author's novels, a sculptor's daughter dies when her boyfriend drives their car off a bridge during a police chase, and they both drown. While reaching for a cup under a stove, one of this author's characters has scalding water poured in her ear by a Satan-obsessed nun. One of this author's characters poses for what becomes a nude painting of him plunging off a cliff, which is hung in the state capitol building. In a novel by her, an unfaithful wife sacrifices her own daughter to (*) wolves while traveling over a frozen lake, and the bones of the child are placed within the title object. Bernard narrates the multigenerational history of an instrument discovered by Faye Travers in that novel by her. Marie Lazarre marries the man who rapes her, Nector, in this author's debut novel, which opens with June Kashpaw dying while trekking back to the Chippewa reservation where she was born. For 10 points, name this Ojibwe author of The Painted Drum and Love Medicine.
Louise Erdrich [or Karen Louise Erdrich] 
9

125573-)
In one poem by this author, a man asks God if he ever made a just man, and God instructs him to listen to the defeat of the third and last surviving one. In another poem by this author, a wise man realizes that the only real thing in life is opinion, and concludes "opinion be damned." This author described a man who sees a ball that is made of clay when he possesses it, but made of gold when it's in the sky. When a spirit in one of this author's poems declares "Ah, there is no God!", a sword from the sky comes down and smites him dead. One of his poems describes "a (*) creature, naked, bestial / Who squatting upon the ground" eats something which he enjoys "Because it is bitter / And because it is [his] heart." His most famous poem instructs various people who have lost loved ones in battle, "Do not weep." For 10 points, name this American poet of the collections Black Riders and Other Lines and War Is Kind.
Stephen Crane [prompt on Crane]
9

125581-)
The protagonist of one of this author's novels starts a newspaper called the Brunswick Corner Bugle and fatally trips down a flight of steps while holding a bust of her cat-killing son Cliffe. Two characters created by this author begin a relationship despite one having timidly replaced "I love you" with "Salutations" in a Christmas card; one of those characters works as an off-Broadway stage designer and does her shopping at Frankenberg's. In a pseudonymously published novel by this author of Edith's Diary, two of her characters go on a cross-country road trip and one of them almost loses custody of her child after (*) Harge, her awful husband, threatens to expose her relationship with Carol Aird. The title character of one of her novels kills the playboy Dickie Greenleaf and takes on Greenleaf's identity. For 10 points, name this author of The Price of Salt and The Talented Mr. Ripley.
Patricia Highsmith [or Claire Morgan]
9

125590-)
In one speech, this character claims: "The most precious asset in life, I think, is the ability to be a good son" before listing his surrogate fathers. After Martin makes a weak joke about Teddy Roosevelt, this character tells him to "shut the fuck up" and then makes him rub his back to demonstrate to another character what loyalty means. By pretending to mistake his worst enemy for his mother and crying piteously, he tricks her into singing "Balalaike" for him. He defines (*) homosexuals as men "who know nobody and who nobody knows. Who have zero clout" to explain why he is not gay. He bullies his doctor Henry into diagnosing him with "liver cancer," and brags that his proudest achievement was securing the execution of Ethel Rosenberg, whose ghost haunts him. After Joe Pitt refuses to take a job on his behalf in Washington D.C., this character is disbarred while dying of AIDS. For 10 points, name this character from Angels in America, a fictionalization of Joe McCarthy's lawyer.
Roy Cohn [accept either name] 
9

125591-)
This author interviewed a librarian named Susanna Pechuro arrested for distributing leaflets as well as Vladimir Glebov, the son of Lev Kamenev, for a book written during a glasnost-era trip to Russia.  His best known book draws heavily from a four-volume history by Jules Marchal.  A recent book by this author of The Unquiet Ghost casts Texaco executive Torkild Rieber as one of its chief antagonists and profiles Robert Merriman, the leader of the Abraham Lincoln Brigade.  This co-founder of (*) Mother Jones magazine wrote a book that opens with Edmund Dene Morel observing inbound ships to Antwerp filled with rubber.  In that same book, this author celebrates the efforts of Roger Casement to put British pressure on a colony co-founded by Henry Morton Stanley.  For 10 points, name this author who chronicled the horrors of the Belgian Congo in King Leopold's Ghost.
Adam Hochschild
9

125618-)
This character is described as having a "sharp and biting way with hypocrites," and is said to be the type of man in whose presence "a fool felt his foolishness instantly." After being asked to say "a soft word," this man swears that he will cut off his hand before touching a girl whom he calls "Child." Near the end of the play he appears in, this man argues that "God does not need my name nailed upon the church!" When asked to recite the Ten Commandments, this man only forgets the one about adultery. Ezekiel Cheever enters this man's house to look for poppets owned by his wife, who is accused of witchcraft by Abigail Williams. For 10 points, name this husband of Elizabeth, a resident of Salem in The Crucible.
John Proctor [or John Proctor]
7

125631-)
The desire to gain the approval of this man leads to a meditation on whether the pain of "un espuela de hueso" is as painful as the pain cocks feel in cockfighting. This man is said to do all things perfectly even with "the bone spur in his heel." An admirer of this man wonders whether this person was as poor as him and states that he would like to take this man fishing, since this man's father was a fisherman, in contrast to the father of the great Sisler. A boy is told to think of this "great" man after that boy, Manolin, says that he fears "the Indians of Cleveland." For 10 points, name this man adored by Santiago in Ernest Hemingway's The Old Man and the Sea, an outfielder for the New York Yankees.
Joe DiMaggio [or Joseph Paul DiMaggio; or Giuseppe Paolo DiMaggio]
7

125637-)
Early in this character's life, he refuses his father's offer to get him a spot at West Point, electing instead to join his old regiment, which battles Native Americans in the West. This character hates his brother's determination to wake them both up at 4:30 AM to work on their farm. After being shot by his wife, this character lies to the sheriff Horace Quinn. This man befriends Samuel Hamilton and hires the cook Lee, who teaches his son about the word timshel, or "thou mayest." This son of Cyrus moves from Connecticut to the Salinas Valley with his wife, the former prostitute Cathy Ames. For 10 points, name this brother of Charles and father of Aron and Caleb, the protagonist of John Steinbeck's East of Eden.
Adam Trask [or Adam Trask; prompt on Trask]
7

125653-)
After this character asks his father if dying is hard, his father replies, "I think it's pretty easy," and the narrator notes that this character "felt quite sure that he would never die." This character finds and releases a black grasshopper before contemplating whether he should fish in the deeper waters of a swamp. As a boy, he watches his father use a jack-knife to perform a Caesarean section on a woman whose husband cuts his own throat with a razor. In another appearance, this character warns a Swedish prizefighter named Ole Andreson about the title pair of hit men looking for him. For 10 points, name this recurring character who appears in "Indian Camp," "Big Two-Hearted River," "The Killers," and other stories by Ernest Hemingway.
Nick Adams [or Nick Adams]
7

125664-)
In this book, the author argues that "we learn to prefer imperfect theories...to digested systems which have no one valuable suggestion" after illustrating a point by quoting some stanzas from George Herbert's "Man." This essay's author defines the Imagination as "the use which the Reason makes of the material world" in its ambivalent chapter on "Idealism." The title concept is identified as "the symbol of spirit" in the third proposition explored in this book's chapter on "Language." This essay's author declares, "I am nothing; I see all; the currents of the Universal Being circulate through me," in a passage about becoming a "transparent eyeball" while immersed in the title entity. For 10 points, name this first book by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
Nature
7

125669-)
This author created a character who stares at a picture of his father's first wife Deborah before ascending a hill in Central Park and imagining that Broadway symbolizes his life to come. In a story by this man, a postcard from Greece informs the narrator that his jazz-playing brother is still alive, though his brother's heroin usage has estranged them. A boy reflects on having "sinned his hand," or masturbated, in a novel by this man in which that boy has a spiritual awakening at the Temple of the Fire Baptized. In that novel by this man, Gabriel is revealed not to be the true father of the protagonist, John Grimes. For 10 points, name this African- American author who wrote "Sonny's Blues" and Go Tell It on the Mountain.
James Baldwin [James Arthur Baldwin]
7

125700-)
A poem of this title describes a painting "about the size of an old-style dollar bill" executed by Uncle George, and was included in Geography III by Elizabeth Bishop. Another poem of this title describes a cat stepping down "into the pit of the empty flowerpot." That poem was written by William Carlos Williams, who also wrote that "it is difficult to get the news from" these things, "yet men die miserably every day for lack of what is found there." These things are compared to "imaginary gardens with real toads in them" in a poem by Mari- anne Moore. A rather stupid poem says that these things "should be equal to: not true," and that they "should not mean but be." For 10 points, name these artworks described by Archibald MacLeish's "Ars Poetica."
poems [prompt on poetry]
7

125712-)
In this novel, the protagonist demonstrates his renewed faculties by bailing out two women who get arrested dressing up as sailors to pick up French girls. In another scene from this novel, the North African Conte di Minghetti becomes irate when his sister is asked to clean out dirty bathwater. In this novel, a woman damaged by sexual abuse from her father, Devereux Warren, recovers and enters into an affair with Tommy Barban. When this novel's protagonist loses his personal charm to alcoholism, he alienates the star of Daddy's Girl, Rosemary Hoyt. This novel details the decline of the psychologist Dick Diver, whose failed marriage to Nicole Warren is based on the author's own marriage to his wife Zelda. For 10 points, name this final completed novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Tender Is the Night
7

125728-)
In a play by this author, a man slashes his chest and denounces his religion after learning the "song of self- sufficiency." In another of his plays, a man named Booster returns from a jail term he received for killing a woman who accused him of rape and takes his father's place as the manager of the title unlicensed taxi business. The washed-up musician Wining Boy sells his clothes to Lymon in a play by this author in which the central family is haunted by Sutter's ghost as Boy Willie attempts to sell the title object. In another play, he wrote about Cory, who is forbidden to play football by his father, Troy Maxson. For 10 points, name this African-American playwright of the "Pittsburgh Cycle," which includes The Piano Lesson and Fences.
August Wilson
7

125742-)
This author taught writing classes at Sing Sing that helped him gather material for a novel about a convict who suffers from methadone withdrawal and has a love affair with another prisoner named Jody. In a story by this author, a housewife hysterically concludes, "Life is too terrible, too sordid and awful," before asking her husband, "We're happy, aren't we, darling? We are happy, aren't we?" Aunt Honora, the father Leander, and the bisexual Coverly are members of the title family in this author's first novel. At the end of a story by this author, a man realizes his house is abandoned after traveling home by way of all his neighbors' pools. For 10 points, name this American author of The Wapshot Chronicle, "The Enormous Radio," and "The Swimmer."
John Cheever
7

125763-)
This man did not write the book In the Belly of the Beast, but letters addressed to him make up that text. He claimed that a certain race of people had been "living on the margin between totalitarianism and democracy for two centuries." This author wrote a book which was split into two parts: t"history as a novel" and "the novel as history." He wrote an essay about mainstream hipsters appropriating black culture titled "The White Negro." This author wrote a "novelized" account of the 1967 March on the Pentagon and a Pulitzer winning account of Utah administering the death penalty to killer Gary Gilmore. For 10 points, name this author of Armies of the Night and The Executioner's Song.
Norman Mailer 
7

125767-)
A character in this novel explains that if she heard the phrase "speeding bullet," she would duck for cover. Another character in this novel plans to break the world record for longest time spent in a cage of venomous snakes. This novel's protagonist argues with his son over the metaphysics of whether it is raining. In this novel, Murray Jay Siskind hopes to create a course on Elvis at the College-on-the-Hill. In this novel, the experimental drug Dylar reveals an affair between Willie Mink and the protagonist's fourth wife, Babette. A derailed train in this novel releases a black cloud of Nyodene D into the air, an event known as "The Airborne Toxic Event." For 10 points, name this novel about Jack Gladney, written by Don DeLillo.
White Noise
7

125783-)
Immediately after this event, a man involved in it observes a single star in the night sky and tries to figure out if the star is Sirius. Right before this event, the church clock strikes five and an object pivotal to this event is placed on the Varnum gate. During this event, a man chants, "We can fetch it; I know we can fetch it." Ned Hale owns the primary object used in this scene, which is preceded by a short discussion about who gets to sit in front. A man mistakes his injured lover for a field mouse in the snow right after this event, during which the protagonist sees Starkfield looking "like a speck in space." For 10 points, name this event at the end of an Edith Wharton novel, in which two lovers sled down a hill with the intention of crashing.
the suicide attempt by Ethan Frome and Mattie Silver [or obvious equivalents; or Ethan Frome running a sled into a tree until "sled" is read]
7

125791-)
A poem by this author tells its addressee, "We are on each other's hands who care. Both of our worlds un- handed us," and concludes with the request, "Hover, utter, still, a sourcing whom my lost candle like the firefly loves." This poet wrote, "My daughter's heavier. Light leaves are flying," in a poem that follows one about want- ing to dig up the grave of his father, who committed suicide when his son was eleven. Another of his poems begins by declaring, "Life, friends, is boring." This author's collection His Toy, His Dream, His Rest expanded to 385 poems his set of 18-line poems about an alter ego named Henry. For 10 points, name this suicidal Ameri- can poet of Homage to Mistress Bradstreet and The Dream Songs.
John Berryman
7

125807-)
An evil hunchbacked Jew named Gabriel Van Gelt swindles the underbelly of this city in a novel named for a brothel run by the pimp "Devil-Bug." The lawyer "Slippery George" Stevens incites a race riot in this city in a novel by Frank J. Webb. The title character of a novel set in this city finds $20,000 in an Italian manuscript that he appropriated for his friend Wellbeck and falls in love with Eliza Hadwin. George Lippard's melodrama The Monks of Monk Hall is set in this city, whose pre-Civil War free (*) black community is the subject of The Garies and Their Friends. In a memoir mostly set in this city, the narrator recalls establishing one of its hospitals with Dr. Thomas Bond and founding the Junto club. While living in this city, the author of that memoir recounts inventing a stove and refusing a patent for it. Charles Brockden Brown's novel Arthur Mervyn is set during this city's 1793 yellow fever epidemic. For 10 points, name this American city, the setting of much of The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin.
Philadelphia
9

125826-)
A poem named for these objects describes a weekly lesson in which they are passed out by a smiling woman and used automatically by "the circle of crazy ladies" in Bedlam; that poem was written by Anne Sexton. Hart Crane's poem "Voyages II" mentions how these objects "off San Salvador / salute the crocus lustres of the stars." A poem named for these objects begins and ends by using the words "astonishes" and "vexed" to describe a character's "brown (*) study." In that poem, these objects interrupt the speaker's memories of how a lively girl harried some lazy geese into a pond. Another poem named for these objects consists of four sections which successively describe them as silver, golden, brazen, and iron, and mentions that they keep "time, time, time / with a sort of Runic rhyme." For 10 points, name these objects which remind the speaker of the death of John Whiteside's daughter in a poem by John Crowe Ransom, and title a poem by Edgar Allan Poe which coined the word "tintinnabulation."
bells
9

125843-)
A poem with this title quotes broken lines from the hymn "Jesus Savior Pilot Me" and opens with the names "Jesus, Estrella, Esperanza, Mercy." The protagonist of a novel with this title has a mystical vision after feeding the god of the Allmuseri while aboard the Republic. That novel follows the stowaway Rutherford Calhoun, and won the 1990 National Book Award. This title is shared by a travelogue giving "Impressions of Five Societies" by V.S. Naipaul and an epic poem about Cinquez by (*) Robert Hayden. The only chapter narrated by the title character of Toni Morrison's Beloved is a stream-of-consciousness description of this historical process. A Charles Johnson novel is named for this experience, which is also described in a famous excerpt from the "Interesting Narrative" of Olaudah Equiano, which evokes "loathsome smells," "shrieks of the women," and "groans of the dying." For 10 points, name this traumatic experience often treated in African-American literature, the portion of the Triangle Trade that brought slaves to the Americas.
The Middle Passage
9

125854-)
One of this author's title characters washes herself in a river in order to undo her recent baptism, and is taken in as a child by an itinerant woman named Doll. Greenpeace sued this author for writing that it withheld information about the Sellafield plutonium processing plant in her book Mother Country. This author defended John Calvin against modern misreadings in her essay collection The Death of Adam, and wrote a novel in which (*) Helen abandons her two daughters by driving into a lake. Jack Boughton returns to his hometown in her second novel, which was published twenty-four years after her novel in which Sylvie attempts to raise Ruth and Lucille in the town of Fingerbone. Her 2014 novel Lila provides the backstory for the wife of her recurring character John Ames, a Congregationalist minister in a small town in Iowa. For 10 points, For 10 points, name this American author of the novels Housekeeping and Gilead.
Marilynne Robinson
9

125889-)
A woman in this novel tells a fable about an Indian chief named "Vendonah," or "Rides-Down-Everything," who walks over people's faces with iron shoes before his tribe forces him to ride a canoe into the ocean. Late in this novel, one of the Kinneys reveals that the protagonist accepted a job as a nitro-glycerin expert at the Akers Chemical Company. It's the second novel in its author's Growth trilogy, which also includes The Turmoil and The Midlander, Its protagonist crashes his sleigh after yelling "Get a hoss!" in order to mock the inventor (*) Eugene Morgan, despite falling in love with his daughter Lucy. This novel contrasts the rise of horseless carriages with the decline of the central family, whose fortunes were originally established by the Major after the Civil War. It won the Pulitzer Prize in 1919, and focuses on the spoiled, arrogant heir George Minafer. For 10 points, name this novel by Booth Tarkington which was turned into a 1942 movie directed by Orson Welles.
The Magnificent Ambersons
9

125900-)
This author wrote a one-act play in which Alfred commits suicide offstage with a razor after being constantly nagged by his wife, Mrs. Rowland. In another of this author's plays, Reuben Light shoots Ada Fife in a powerhouse after exclaiming "There is no God! No God but Electricity!" In a third play by this author, Nick conspires with Fat Joe and the prostitute Frieda to shanghai Olson into sailing aboard the Amindra; that play is part of his cycle of four one-act plays about the S.S (*) Glencairn. This author of Before Breakfast, Dynamo, and The Long Voyage Home never finished The Greed of the Meek and The Calms of Capricorn, which were part of his planned cycle of plays about the material rise and spiritual decline of the Harford family across American history. The only complete play from that cycle, A Tale of Possessors Self-Dispossessed, focuses on the romantic braggart Con Melody. For 10 points, name this American author of A Touch of the Poet and Long Day's Journey Into Night.  
Eugene O'Neill 
9

125915-)
At one point in this story, a bet is made at Reifsnyder's barber shop regarding the identity of a man walking by wearing lavender trousers. It concludes on a Wednesday evening with a doctor realizing that his wife Gracie's breakdown is precipitated by the ostracism his choices have visited upon their household. Earlier in this story, Alek Williams argues with Judge Hagenthorpe that five dollars a week is not worth the stress of boarding the title figure, whose stroll through the community nearly causes a riot and prompts Jake Winter to threaten to have Ned Trescott arrested. Set in the fictional town of  (*)Whilomville, this short story was published in an eponymous 1899 volume alongside works like "The Blue Hotel," and centers on a black coachman who saves young Jimmie's life during a fire but ends up becoming disfigured. For 10 points, name this story about Henry Johnson, whose horrific appearance begets the title epithet, a work by Stephen Crane.
The Monster and Other Stories
9

125936-)
One of this author's poems inspired the title of Joyce Carol Oates's short story collection Upon the Sweeping Flood. One of this author's poems compares the soul to a "bird of paradise" put in "this wicker cage (my corpse)" which "pecked the Fruit forbade" and "fell into Celestial Famine sore," before God provides the speaker with "Heaven's Sugar Cake." Another of this author's poems includes a list of rhetorical questions such as "Who in this bowling alley bowled the Sun?" He repeatedly called himself a "crumb of dust" in the prologue to his poem (*) God's Determinations Touching His Elect. In an extended metaphor, the speaker of another of his poems compares his Conversation to a "Reele" and his soul to a "Holy Spool," and longs to be "clothed in holy robes for glory." That poem begins "Make me, O Lord, thy spinning wheel complete." For 10 points, name this author of Preparatory Meditations and "Huswifery," a colonial metaphysical poet.
Edward Taylor
9

125964-)
This character observes that the young use pornographic playing cards as a substitute for real experience, while the old use real experience as a substitute for fantasies. After telling a long story, he sarcastically asks if he could sell it to Reader's Digest for their section "The Most Unforgettable Character I've Ever Met." This character asks a man if his favorite writers are Baudelaire and J.P. Marquand after learning that he owns two cats and two parakeets. He calls God "a colored queen who wears a kimono and plucks his eyebrows" at the end of a monologue about his attempt to use (*) poisoned hamburger meat to kill an enormous black dog. At the end of the play he appears in, this character forces a man off of a bench in Central Park and tells him to fight for it. He then pulls out a knife and tells that man to pick it up before impaling himself on it. For 10 points, name this character who has a one-sided conversation with Peter throughout Edward Albee's play The Zoo Story.
Jerry
9

125967-)
This phrase titles the chapter of The Education of Henry Adams in which Adams praises the "artistic skill" of John Hay in the midst of the Spanish-American War. In a novel with this title, the botany-loving Baron von Risach welcomes a young man travelling the Alps into his estate. In a different novel with this title, the "white desolation" of the town of Haddam East Village is recalled by Mr. Waters, a priest who befriends the protagonist. Friedrich Nietzsche praised a bildungsroman with this title about Heinrich Drenhof, written by (*) Adalbert Stifter. In a novel with this title, a carriage crash leaves its protagonist bedridden, after which he and Imogene Graham break up due to their twenty-year age difference. This two-word phrase also appears in the title of an interlude that comes after The Man of Property in The Forsyte Saga. In a novel with this title, an American travels to Florence, where he falls in love with the widow Lina Bowen. For 10 points, give this period of weather which titles a novel about Theodore Colville written by William Dean Howells.
Indian Summer [or Der Nachsommer]
9

125985-)
In one story in this collection, Samuel loses his job as a hotel maid on his birthday before tripping and falling face-first onto some railroad tracks. The title character of another story in this collection is put on trial for murdering two soldiers in 1858 even though he's living in the 20th century. A man remembers feeling like he could fly after jumping off the roof of his school in a story in this collection about a trip to collect the ashes of another character's father. The narrator of its title story has a dream of soldiers playing polo with a dead woman's head, frightening his (*) white girlfriend, and enters a 7/11 where he intimidates a clerk by asking for a Creamsicle. The author of this book used its stories, such as "This Is What It Means to Say Phoenix, Arizona," as the basis for his film Smoke Signals. Many of its stories focus on Victor Joseph and Thomas Builds-the-Fire, who are also part of its author's novel Reservation Blues. For 10 points, name this short story collection by Sherman Alexie, whose title refers to characters from a classic TV western.
The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven
9

126009-)
A story by this author ends with its narrator being unable to sleep soundly because of a "hysterical laugh" forever ringing in his ears. In that story by this author, the protagonist exits a lifeboat during a storm off Cape Hatteras to retrieve the title object before tying himself to it and throwing himself to his death. One of this author's title characters listens to the story of Ethelred killing a dragon from Sir Launcelot Canning's book The Mad Tryst while becoming increasingly disturbed by a series of noises. This author wrote a story about a (*) crate owned by the insane artist Cornelius Wyatt, as well as a story in which the state of the title character's mind is reflected by the poem "The Haunted Palace." One of this author's stories begins during "a dull, dark, and soundless day during the beginning of the year," in which the narrator visits a location that later slides into a tarn. That story's title character becomes convinced that he has buried his sister Madeleine alive. For 10 points, name this American author of "The Oblong Box" and "The Fall of the House of Usher."
Edgar Allan Poe
9

126026-)
This book's source material has been traced to the so-called "Talbot Wilson" notebook. The preface to this book includes "stand up for the stupid and crazy" and "love the earth and sun and the animals" in a list of advice following the declaration "This is what you shall do." William Douglas O'Connor wrote a "vindication" of the author of this book, which is the subject of the final chapter in D. H. Lawrence's Studies in Classic American Literature. Its original frontispiece featured the (*) "carpenter" portrait of its author, in which he stands with his hand on his hip while wearing his work clothes. Its author advertised it by highlighting the line "I greet you at the beginning of a great career" from a congratulatory letter sent by Emerson. This book's preface claims "The United States themselves are essentially the greatest poem," and its final, "deathbed" edition was released in 1892. For 10 points, name this poetry collection that includes clusters of poems called "Children of Adam" and "Calamus," as well as hundreds of other poems by Walt Whitman.
Leaves of Grass
9

126028-)
The eighth chapter of this work, which describes the murder of Billy Brooks Jr., takes its title from a phrase in a 1965 speech given at Howard University by Lyndon Johnson. The first chapter of this work profiles a man who, as a ten-year-old boy, was forced to sell a horse with a red coat for $17; the man's response, "so that's just one of my losses," titles the chapter. The three epigraphs to this piece are from Deuteronomy 15:12-15, Locke's Second Treatise, and an anonymous person who said "we have earned the right to the soil, and now we are determined to have it." This long essay contains an extended discussion of Clyde Ross, (*) who bought a home "on contract" in the North Lawndale neighborhood of Chicago and helped form the Contract Buyers League to combat predatory housing sales. The intro to this piece states that America must "reckon with our compounding moral debts" after mentioning "thirty five years of racist housing policy," "sixty years of separate but equal," and "two hundred fifty years of slavery." For 10 points, name this June 2014 essay in The Atlantic by Ta-Nehisi Coates, which argues in favor of compensating the descendants of slaves.
"The Case for Reparations"
9

126038-)
The essay "Fame" recounts this author's failed attempt to tell a columnist about the publication of her first book, which resulted in a note that Mr. and Mrs. Farrar-straus of New York City would soon be visited by Mrs. Stanley Hyman and family. In a short story by this author, Mr. Malkin realizes that his wife is "the most terrible women he had ever seen" from her reaction after she kills a pregnant mouse. The first paragraph of one of her novels begins "No live organism can continue for long to exist sanely under conditions of absolute reality," and declares that at the title location, (*) "whatever walked there, walked alone." John Philip Johnson feeds a young boy the title snacks in a story by this author which reveals that he and his wife swap between helping and hurting others. She also wrote a novel about Eleanor Vance, who participates in an experiment to find evidence of the supernatural at the title mansion. For 10 points, name this author of "One Ordinary Day, With Peanuts" and The Haunting of Hill House.
Shirley (Hardie) Jackson
9

126073-)
The title character of one of this author's novels becomes an abolitionist and moves to Bleeding Kansas with her husband Thomas Newton, whose murder by border ruffians inspires her to disguise herself as a man and track down his killers. In another of this author's novels, Dr. Lionel Gift conspires with Arlen Martin on a scheme to mine gold in the last virgin cloud forest in Costa Rica, which is opposed by Chairman X. This author of The All-True Travels and Adventures of Lidie Newton wrote a novel which follows the life of Margret (*) Asgeirsdottir from birth to death, as well as an academic farce which opens by describing an experiment conducted on a 700-pound pig named Earl Butz. After writing The Greenlanders, she used Zebulon County, Iowa as the setting for a novel inspired by King Lear, in which Larry Cook bequeaths his farm to his three daughters, Rose, Caroline, and Ginny. For 10 points, name this American author of Moo and A Thousand Acres.
Jane Smiley
9

126077-)
The preface to this book's second edition responds to James Smith's critique that it lacks the "judgment of value" by noting that there is an implicit argument for the quality of the poems its author discusses in detail, among them Pope's "Epistle 2: To a Lady" and Herbert's "The Sacrifice." Its last section delves into psychology and repeats Freud's claim that when an ancient Egyptian saw a baby "he at once thought of an old man." Its author argues that Keats' "Ode on Melancholy" demonstrates that a "force in the poet's mind, must have wanted to go to Lethe very much, if it took four negatives in the first line to stop them." Opening with a discussion of how (*) "pure sound and atmosphere" impact understanding, this book posits that features like "double grammar" and "alternative meanings" are valuable tools in analyzing literature. For 10 points, identify this work of criticism whose title refers to a certain number of "verbal nuance[s]" which provoke different reactions to the same piece of language, a book by William Empson.
Seven Types of Ambiguity
9

126083-)
At a diner, a character in this novel reads a story about Harrison Fire, a rookie football player who destroyed a Greyhound bus with his bare hands, before his companion passes a waitress a note that asks "Back Door Beauty?" In its eighth chapter, its narrator remembers his sense of riding "a high and beautiful wave" in San Francisco during the mid-1960s, but realizes that "the wave finally broke and rolled back." This novel opens with Samuel Johnson's quote "He who makes a beast of himself gets rid of the pain of being a man," and includes a scene where a man asks the narrator to throw a (*) toaster into his bathtub when the song "White Rabbit" peaks. Its main characters attempt to cover the Mint 400 before infiltrating the National District Attorneys Association's conference on dangerous narcotics. Subtitled "A Savage Journey to the Heart of the American Dream," it follows the drug-laced adventures of Raoul Duke and Dr. Gonzo. For 10 points, name this novel by Hunter S. Thompson based on his trip to the title city.
Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas
9

126107-)
This book's "Chapter XIX" shares an all-capitals reference to "THE TRADITIONALISTS OF PLAGIARISM" with its "Chapter I," and precedes it. A poem that appears later in this book proclaims, "The pure products of America / go crazy." Another poem in this book begins "The crowd at the ball game / is moved uniformly / by a spirit of uselessness / which delights them." The author's claim that "In description words adhere to certain objects, and have the effect on sense of oysters, or barnacles" is illustrated by a poem describing plants that "enter the world naked, / cold, uncertain of all / save that they enter." Published in 1923, this book is named for its first poem, a response to The (*) Waste Land, and includes its author's poem "The Red Wheelbarrow." For 10 points, identify this poetic manifesto by William Carlos Williams, which is named for a poem which opens with the line "By the road to the contagious hospital."
Spring and All
9

126120-)
[missing]
[missing]
9

126125-)
In this essay, the narrator remembers seeing a movie ironically called This Land is Mine before walking outside and feeling a physical "click" at the base of his neck. At the end of its first section, its narrator describes walking into a fashionable restaurant where the apologetic tone of a waitress made him "colder and more murderous," causing him to pick up a mug of water and throw it at her with all his strength. Its author recalls being asks "You would rather write than preach, wouldn't you?" as the only time he and its central figure had ever really spoken. This essay describes its author's rage at being told "We don't serve (*) Negroes here," and ends with a section about the funeral of the author's father, which took place on the same day of a race riot in Harlem. It's the title essay of a 1955 collection that also includes "Many Thousands Gone" and "Everybody's Protest Novel." For 10 points, name this essay by James Baldwin whose title riffs on a novel by Richard Wright.
"Notes of a Native Son"
9

126142-)
While living in this place, Emil Barton is taunted by phone calls from his younger self in the short story "Night Call, Collect." A book set in this place includes a short vignette about young boys who ride bikes to abandoned houses, where they play the bones of ribcages like xylophones. Another story set here focuses on Jeff Spender, who starts shooting his coworkers in a futile attempt to prevent it from being exploited. A short story originally titled "[This place] is (*) heaven!" describes how Captain Black and his men arrive here and discover an idyllic small town populated by their families, only to be murdered in their sleep. This place is compared to the Western frontier in stories such as "And the Moon Be Still as Bright," which chronicles the Fourth Expedition to it. A book named for this place includes short stories like "Usher II" and "Ylla." For 10 points, name this setting of many stories by Ray Bradbury, who wrote a book about its chronicles.
Mars
9

126176-)
The narrator of this novel tells two Spanish Dons a story about a man named Radney who goads his subordinate Steelkilt into a violent rebellion. A character in this novel howls "Ego non baptizo te in nomine patris, sed in nomine diaboli!" while tempering a weapon with blood instead of water. Earlier in this novel, that character compares "all visible objects" to "pasteboard masks" and declares "if man will strike, strike through the mask!" After finishing this novel, its author wrote a letter saying "I have written a wicked book, and feel spotless as the lamb." Another character in this novel muses "I know not all that may be coming, but be it what it will, I'll go to it (*) laughing." Its protagonist wonders "Is it I, God, or who, that lifts this arm?" in its chapter "The Symphony," after refusing to help the Rachel search for a lost child. This novel ends with three chapters called "The Chase," in which its protagonist is last seen yelling "from hell's heart I stab at thee!" For 10 points, name this novel whose title character is hunted by Captain Ahab.
Moby-Dick, or the Whale
9

126197-)
A minor character in this novel, Eva Blake, has the ability to take ambidextrous dictation simultaneously backwards and forwards, and another character in this novel is researching the art of the Flemish painter Herri met de Bles. A male character in this novel cries on seeing Eva's daughter Margaret recite Hopkins' "Spring and Fall," because he sees the girl as a "self-governingÂ… republic of mutually dependent parasites." At the end of this novel, Joe Lovering kills all the rats in his lab before committing suicide, which ruins the romance between the one character and Jeannette Koss, who had introduced that character to a particular work of music. (*) The main female character of this novel is a reference desk librarian who ends her relationship with Keith Tuckwell after meeting Franklin Todd when the latter asks her to find information on a colleague who works the night shift in a computer room with him. For 10 points, identify this novel in which Jan O'Deigh uncovers the past scientific career of geneticist Stuart Ressler, which was written by Richard Powers and takes its name from a cross between a Poe short story and a set of works for the harpsichord by J.S. Bach.
The Gold Bug Variations
9

126279-)
This author produced a five-act drama Norman Maurice and a work of literary criticism Poetry and the Practical. His collected poetry includes "The Tricolor, or Three Days of Blood in Paris," and "Atalantis, a Tale of the Sea." The swashbuckling Harry Calvert is the hero of his novel The Cassique of Kiawah, while some "Confessions of a Murderer" are relayed in Martin Faber. This author of The Wigwam and the Cabin writes of Captain Porgy in a novel subtitled "Fair, Fat, and Forty," The Sword and the Distaff, reprinted as Woodcraft. The novels Mellichampe and Katharine Walton are part of his series most famous for The Partisan. This author of Border Beagles and Guy Rivers also wrote biographies of Francis Marion and Nathanael Greene. FTP, name this proslavery 19th century writer from South Carolina, famous for a bunch of Revolutionary War romances.
William Gilmore Simms
9

126291-)
This poem addresses its subject "if the sages ask thee why, this charm is wasted on the earth and sky," tell them "if eyes were made for seeing, then beauty is its own excuse for Being." It ends "the self-same Power that brought me there brought you." Subtitled "On being asked, whence is the flower," FTP, name this poem by Ralph Waldo Emerson about a shrub.
"The Rhodora"
9

126301-)
In this story, Alice is a 350-pound prostitute who clings to the belief that she was once the lover of prizefighter Steve Ketchel. The third story in Winner Take Nothing, FTP, name this work by Hemingway, whose title is shared by a William Holman Hunt painting showing Jesus knocking at a door.     
Light of the World
9

126315-)
This work is titled after a prose poem by Auguste Villiers de l'Isle-Adam. Subtitled as "A Study in the Imaginative Literature of 1870-1930," it evaluates the influence of the French Symbolist movement and was published nine years before its author's other classic To the Finland Station. FTP, name this work by Edmund Wilson. 
Axel's Castle
9

126355-)
In this work, Mr. Bott puts on "Intermundane SÃ©ances" in his apartment Â– he's tied to a chair and hidden behind a curtain, but changes his coat, as witnessed by Sam Sleeny. Maud Matchin is too poor to marry the neighbor of Alice Belding in the town of Buffland Â– that man is Arthur Farnham, while Offitt leads the title group of labor organizers. Published anonymously by the author of Castilian Days and Pike County Ballads, FTP, name this super-important novel by John Hay.
The Breadwinners: A Social Study
9

126366-)
An essay on this declares that the "Philadelphia Practice of Midwifery" shockingly doesn't know that it can be "communicated to every pregnant woman who happens to come within its sphere." Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote about, FTP, the "contagiousness" of what condition? 
puerperal fever (or "the contagiousness of puerperal fever")
9

126369-)
One part declares "granite cocks ejaculate lava under a black cloud boiling with monster crustaceans," after the Comandante spreads jelly over Carl's naked paralyzed body. Its central section is "The Mayan Caper," focusing on mind control of slaves by the Mayan calendar. It's the first novel in the Nova trilogy which ends with The Ticket That Exploded. FTP, name this cut-up work by William Burroughs whose title refers to the human body. 
The Soft Machine
9

126394-)
In this story, Mr. Mitchell is a reporter who comes to write on his brother-in-law Kirby Clarke. Deborah decides to steal a wallet to help her cousin Hugh Wolfe, which lands them both in jail, and he commits suicide after dreaming of making sculptures out of korl. FTP, name this story published in Atlantic Monthly in 1861, by Rebecca Harding Davis
"Life in the Iron Mills"
9

126484-)
A man in this work says his ancestors thought "Life was a dying. Being born was starting to die. Death was being born," remembering how he was haunted by a white meeting-house that he calls a "temple of death." In this work, two consecutive acts end with a mother addressing increasingly frantic monologues to her daughter, who stares at her in silence. Many characters in this work are described as having faces that resemble life-like masks in repose, which a carpenter identi3es as the family look. In this work, a woman screams when she sees a medicine box placed on her husband's displayed corpse, a7ter which the son of the Canuck nurse girl Marie Brantome is murdered aboard his docked clipper, the "Flying Trades." In this work, Captain Adam Brant conspires with Christine to murder her husband, the homecoming Civil War general Ezra Mannon. For 10 points, name this trilogy of plays, a reimagining of the Oresteia by Eugene O'Neill.
Mourning Becomes Electra [prompt on The Homecoming; prompt on The Hunted; prompt on The Haunted]
8

126502-)
Although this character's creator claimed he was a purely imaginative product, he was partly modeled on David Shipman. In this character's  nal scene, he does not realize that his dog has already died before him and has been stu fed by his friends in a lifelike pose. A ter being helped out of a chair facing the sunset, this man cries "Here!" before dying. To allow his friend to win a silken calash as a prize, this character purposely only grazes a potato with his bullet during a shooting contest. Abiram White frames him for the murder of Asa Bush in a novel in which this man is assisted by Captain Middleton, the grandson of his friend Major Duncan Heyward. Frequently accompanied by Chingachgook, in di ferent novels he is referred to as "the trapper," "Hawkeye," and "Deerslayer." For 10 points, name this protagonist of James Fenimore Cooper's Leatherstocking Tales.
Natty Bumppo [or Natty Bumppo; or Nathaniel Bumppo; or Path nder; or La Longue Carabine; accept the trapper, Hawkeye, Deerslayer, or Leatherstocking before each are read]
8

126509-)
In an essay for Harper's Weekly, this writer recalled a train ride on which she hid the fact that she had a Jewish grandmother from an anti-Semitic colonel who later ordered roast beef hash for lunch. The fact that many readers took that essay to be fiction led her to write an essay that begins by describing a student's intention to take a story and "put in the symbols." This author of "Artists in Uniform" offended Flannery O'Connor by raving about the symbolism of Holy Communion and describing her childhood loss of faith in Memories of a Catholic Girlhood. This longtime correspondent of Hannah Arendt wrote a novel in which a woman either falls or jumps from a 20th-story window after Harald Petersen cheats on her. That semi-autobiographical novel by this wife of Edmund Wilson begins with the wedding of Kay Strong and centers on a circle of eight friends from Vassar College. For 10 points, name this author of The Group.
Mary McCarthy [or Mary Therese McCarthy]
8

126532-)
In an essay by this author, he recalled making and tearing up lists "of cavalry leaders and football players and cities...and of women I'd liked, and of the times I had let myself be snubbed." In that essay, he compared himself to a plate that "can never again be brought out for company, but it will do to hold crackers late at night." That essay of his proposes that "the test of a 3rst-rate intelligence is the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function." In a novel by this author, the narrator recalls how he complimented a man he "disapproved of...from beginning to end" by shouting "They're a rotten crowd...You're worth the whole damn bunch put together." In that novel by this author of The Crack-Up, the title character is shot in his swimming pool a7ter his yellow car is involved in a fatal hit-and-run in the Valley of Ashes. For 10 points, name this American author who created Nick Carraway in The Great Gatsby.
F. Scott Fitzgerald [or Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald]
8

126573-)
In a poem in this collection, the speaker recalls "how quivering and  erce we were, there snowbound together, simmering like wasps in our tent of books!" a ter asking, "Remember our lists of birds?" and describing to the addressee how the new owners have changed their old house in Maine. The poet inserted his precocious daughter Harriet's exclamation "But you can't love everyone, your heart won't let you!" into a poem in this collection adapted from the story In the Village by Elizabeth Bishop, whose trip with the author to the coast of Maine is recounted in this collection's opening poem. This collection, which includes "The Scream," "The Old Flame," and "Water," ends with a poem in which the speaker describes how his nose once "crawled like a snail on the glass" in a building that stands in "a Sahara of snow" in South Boston as "a savage servility slides by on grease." For 10 points, name this collection whose title poem describes the Robert Gould Shaw Memorial, a work of Robert Lowell.
For the Union Dead
8

126618-)
At the climax of a story by this author, the protagonist hides outside while a man looks for a match in the dark, then  lees for a Chinaberry tree a ter he cries out like a "maddened chimpanzee." This author wrote a story in which a man who always throws his pay under the door to his newly-wed wife  nds her in bed with the owner of an ice cream parlor named Otis D. Slemmons, who had impressed her with his fake gold coins. In another of her stories, Sykes takes up with Bertha and tries to scare his wife, the washerwoman Delia Jones, by bringing home a snake, but it bites him instead. This author of "The Gilded Six-Bits" and "Sweat" also wrote a novel set in Florida in which the protagonist's second husband is the mayor of Eatonville, Jody Starks. For 10 points, name this African-American woman who created Janie Crawford in Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Zora Neale Hurston
8

126640-)
In a short story by this author, Private "Lardass" Levine gathers dead bodies following a hurricane in Louisiana. In a novel by this author, the Dutch spy Katje is attacked by the octopus Grigori. "The Small Rain" appears in this author's story collection Slow Learner. In a novel by this author, Roger Mexico correlates the Poisson distribution to the protagonist's sexual episodes. A different novel by this author centers on its protagonist's repeated encounters with the image of a muted posthorn, signifying the mysterious "Tristero" organization. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Tyrone Slothrop in Gravity's Rainbow and about Oedipa Maas in The Crying of Lot 49. 
Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Jr. 
6

126673-)
The protagonist of a novel by this author receives permission to take canoe rides with the beautiful Fayaway. In that novel by this author, the protagonist and his friend Toby desert the Dolly and surrender to a tribe of cannibals led by Mehevi. A character created by this author listens to a sermon that asks: "What is man that he should live out the lifetime of his God?", delivered by Father Mapple. This author wrote "A Peep at Polynesian Life" titled Typee, and a novel that ends with its protagonist clinging on to Queequeg's coffin after the sinking of the Pequod. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Ahab's relentless pursuit of "The Whale" in Moby-Dick. 
Herman Melville
6

126683-)
A character in this play meekly offers his gold watch as collateral for two strawberry ice cream sodas when he realizes he left his money at home. This play concludes with a monologue about "stars doing their old, old crisscross journeys across the sky." In this play's third act, the central female character encounters the milkman Howie Newsome and the choirmaster Simon Stimson among the deceased in the cemetery, and decides to relive her twelfth birthday. The second act of this play centers on the marriage between childhood friends George Gibbs and Emily Webb. For 10 points, name this play narrated by the Stage Manager about life in Grover's Corners, written by Thornton Wilder.
Our Town
6

126697-)
In a short story by this author, an eighty year-old man leaves the title establishment just before 2:30 am after being refused an additional brandy. At the end of that story, a waiter afflicted with insomnia recites an altered version of Lord's Prayer interspersed with the word "nada." This author created a character whose wounded knee is repaired by the Italian Dr. Valentini. This author of "A Clean, Well-Lighted Place" wrote a novel in which Lieutenant Rinaldi's best friend deserts the army following the Battle of Caporetto, and rows to Switzerland with the nurse Catherine Barkley. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the soldier Frederic Henry in A Farewell to Arms. 
Ernest Miller Hemingway
6

126728-)
A funeral for one of this author's characters is attended by his lawyer Nelson Primus, and includes an oration by Herb Keble. The protagonist of a novel by this author reminisces about his constipated father and an unfortunate encounter with Bubbles Girardi. This author created a character who is fired from his job at Athena College after a comment he makes is misconstrued as a racial slur. Another character created by this author recounts his tortured relationship with a woman nicknamed the "Monkey," as well as his numerous masturbatory experiences, during visits to Dr. Spielvogel. For 10 points, name this Jewish author of The Human Stain and Portnoy's Complaint. 
Philip Milton Roth
6

126738-)
A work in this series ends with a fictional biography of the Unknown Soldier titled "The Body of an American." Another entry in this series displays the headline "Sacco and Vanzetti Must Die" and follows with the declaration that "all right we are two nations" and says "we stand defeated America." Song lyrics and clippings from the Chicago Tribune and the New York World make up the numerous "Newsreel" sections of this series. Newsreel 66 and the stream of consciousness Camera Eye 50 appear in this trilogy's entry The Big Money. For 10 points, name this trilogy of novels including The 42nd Parallel and 1919, written by John Dos Passos.
the U.S.A. trilogy
6

126751-)
One poem imagines this person walking "towards the phone booth that can never be reached" and asks: "What happened that night? Your final night." The red-haired speaker of a poem by this writer asserts that "like a cat I have nine lives," and that "out of the ash I rise" and "eat men like air." This poet is the subject of many of another writer's Birthday Letters. In another poem by this writer, the speaker describes the title person as a "panzer-man," and claims that "every woman adores a Fascist." That poem by this writer is titled for "a man in black with a Meinkampf look." For 10 points, name this partner of Ted Hughes and writer of the poems "Lady Lazarus" and "Daddy."
Sylvia Plath
6

126760-)
In this novel, Versh tells one character "Your mommer going to whip you for getting your dress wet" after that character squats in the mud. This novel's appendix ends with a maid's simple statement: "They endured." The narrator of this novel's second section wakes up to the sound of a clock given to him by his father, and on June 2nd, 1910, that character drowns himself in the Charles River. This novel's central family is served by the caretaker Luster and the maid Dilsey, and includes the racist Jason, the mentally handicapped Benjy, Quentin, and their sister Caddy. For 10 points, name this novel about the declining Compson family, written by William Faulkner. 
The Sound and the Fury
6

126786-)
One verse by this poet addresses an object made of rags with a "visage [that] was so irksome in my sight." At the end of a poem, this writer despaired: "The world no longer let me love, my hope and treasure lies above." This poet wrote of a love valued above "whole mines of gold" or "all the riches that the East doth hold" in a poem that opens: "If ever two were one, then surely we." In another poem, this writer lamented "my pleasant things in ashes lie" following a conflagration. For 10 points, name this colonial poet of "To My Dear and Loving Husband" and "Verses Upon the Burning of Our House," which appear in her collection The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America. 
Anne Bradstreet
6

126814-)
One of this author's poems contains a "dirge" written for "the queenliest dead that ever died so young." The "Naiad air" of one of this poet's subjects brought the speaker "To the glory that was Greece, and the grandeur that was Rome." Death rears himself a throne in the title location of this poet's "The City in the Sea." This author's last poem describes a once-beautiful woman whose corpse now lies "in a sepulchre by the sea." A bust of Pallas serves as the perch for the title creature of another poem by this author, from which it only caws "nevermore." For 10 points, name this early American poet of "To Helen," "Annabel Lee," and "The Raven."
Edgar Allan Poe
6

126832-)
A play by this author opens after the ex-convict Black prevents the professor White from jumping in front of a train. This author of The Sunset Limited created a pair of characters who are disturbed by the discovery of the charred remains of an infant baby on a fire spit. At the end of a novel by this author, a hairless, albino giant who preaches that "war is god" fiddles maniacally in a saloon. The "kid" joins Judge Holden and the scalp hunting Glanton Gang in that novel by this author, who also wrote a novel about a young boy and his father's gloomy post-apocalyptic trip along the title pathway. For 10 points, name this American author of Blood Meridian and The Road. 
Cormac McCarthy
6

126848-)
In a novel titled for this place, the prostitute Felice returns her $50 fee to the former soldier Jake Brown. That work's author also wrote a poetry collection titled for this place's Shadows. A member of a movement named for this place wrote a poem whose speaker claims that life "had tacks in it, and splinters, and boards torn up", and that "for me [it] ain't been no crystal stair." The speaker of a poem titled for this place suggests: "Maybe it just sags like a heavy load" in response to the question: "What happens to a dream deferred?" For 10 points, name this location, the home of a literary "Renaissance" which included such writers as Claude McKay and Langston Hughes. 
Harlem [accept the Harlem Renaissance]
6

126877-)
This poet compared the title season to a "perhaps hand", arranging objects near a window "without breaking anything," in the poem "Spring." This poet wrote about a character whose death is largely ignored by "women and men" who "reaped their sowing and and went their came" in a poem that repeats the words: "sun moon stars rain." The title character of another poem by this writer was a "conscientious object-or" whom the narrator describes as "more brave than me:more blond than you." For 10 points, name this American poet of "anyone lived in a pretty how town" and "i sing of Olaf glad and big," who eschewed proper grammar and punctuation.
e. e. Cummings
6

126892-)
A poem by this author describes "jumping with sensation of Pater Omnipotens Aeterna Deus to recreate the syntax and measure of poor human prose." He wrote "I've given you all and now I'm nothing" and "I'm putting my queer shoulder to the wheel" in a poem which says "go fuck yourself with your atom bomb." This poet's line about people "who let themselves be fucked in the ass by saintly motorcyclists" led to an obscenity trial. This author of "America" wrote a poem which makes repeated reference to the idol Moloch. This poet wrote about "angel-headed hipsters" near the beginning of a poem declaring "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness." For 10 points, name this Beat poet who wrote "Howl."
(Irwin) Allen Ginsberg
6

126906-)
This novel's author remarks that "a day of grace is yet held out to us" in its final chapter, entitled "Concluding Remarks." In this novel, the wealthy Madame de Thoux pays for the education of her long-lost brother after their reunion. In this novel, Ophelia educates a girl who thinks that she just grew, rather than being made by anyone. That girl is named Topsy. This novel's plot is set in motion by the debt incurred by the farmer Arthur Shelby. Tom Loker tracks Eliza after she escapes across a frozen river in this novel, whose characters include Augustine St. Clare and the cruel Simon Legree. For 10 points, name this anti-slavery novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Uncle Tom's Cabin
6

126908-)
This poem describes how "a woman drew her long black hair out tight and fiddled whisper music on those strings." The title of Doris Lessing's The Grass Is Singing comes from an image in this poem. A character in this poem complains "My nerves are bad to-night." Three lines of this poem consist only of the syllable "da," which is then expanded into the words datta, dayadhvam, and damyata. This poem's shortest section asks the reader to "consider Phlebas," and is called "Death by Water." Characters in this poem include Tiresias and a "famous clairvoyante" named Madame Sosostris. This poem, which ends with the words shantih shantih shantih, begins "April is the cruellest month." For 10 points, name this poem by T. S. Eliot.
"The Waste Land"
6

126944-)
After one character tears away the paper obstructing a light bulb, this character gasps and exclaims: "I don't want realism! I want magic!" This character falsely recalls an incident on Biscayne Boulevard involving an an imaginary oil tycoon from Texas. This character unsuccessfully attempts to defend herself with a broken wine bottle before being raped by her sister's drunk Polish husband. Before being carted off to a mental asylum, this character tells the doctor: "Whoever you are, I have always depended on the kindness of strangers." For 10 points, name this sister of Stella Kowalski, the fallen Southern belle in Tennessee Williams's A Streetcar Named Desire. 
Blanche DuBois
6

126967-)
One poem calls this person "gentle, plain, just and resolute." A poem about this person includes an italicized portion beginning "Come lovely and soothing death, undulate round the world." This person is the subject of the poem "The Dust Was Once a Man," as well as a poem noting that "the ship has weather'd every rack, the prize we sought is won." An elegy for this man repeats images of a solitary thrush singing and a star drooping in the sky. In another poem, he is represented as a sailor who has "fallen cold and dead" on the deck. For 10 points, name this president who is the subject of Walt Whitman's poems "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" and "O Captain! My Captain!"
Abraham Lincoln
6

126969-)
This author created a former blacksmith who abandons his plans to establish a reformatory for criminals after his actions drive Mr. Moodie's wealthy daughter to suicide. A novel by this author opens as its narrator discovers an old manuscript by Jonathan Pue in "The Custom-House." This author drew inspiration from the utopian Brook Farm to write about Zenobia's unrequited love for Hollingsworth in a novel narrated by Miles Coverdale. In another novel by this author, Roger Chillingworth exposes Reverend Dimmesdale's affair with Pearl's mother, Hester Prynne. For 10 points, name this 19th century American author of The Blithedale Romance and The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
6

126979-)
A character speculates that poor and downtrodden citizens were speci cally relocated to the "City Paranoiac" to experience these events. A somber re lection on parents "leaving their children alone in the forest" is occasioned by one of these events that interrupts a pantomime of Hansel and Gretel. A hymn from the protagonist's distant ancestor William is o fered just before last of these events occurs, interrupting the closing words: "Now everybodyÂ—" The young sex slave Gottfried sacri ces himself by climbing into a device with the serial number 00000 ("zero-zero-zero-zero-zero") used for one of these events. Roger Mexico determines that the same Poisson distribution is followed by these events and an American lieutenant's sexual encounters around London. For 10 points, name these destructive attacks seemingly predicted by Tyrone Slothrop in Gravity's Rainbow.
V-2 rocket strikes in Gravity's Rainbow [or V-2 rocket attacks; or V-2 strikes; or obvious equivalents]
8

127001-)
In a novel by a later author, this writer is nearly crushed by a falling bed he had rigged to his ceiling, and is ridiculed by the protagonist for the mixed metaphors in a speech he delivers so quietly the audience can't hear him. This writer reproduced an oration by the Mingo chief Logan as part of his refutation of Count de Bu fon's theory that animals are smaller and people are stupider in America than in Europe. This writer's only book includes the o t-quoted anti-slavery line "I tremble for my country when I re lect that God is just." He wrote a long letter to Maria Cosway featuring a dialogue between his head and his heart. His responses to 23 "queries" about his home state were published as Notes on the State of Virginia. For 10 points, name this American author who articulated the "unalienable rights" of "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness" in The Declaration of Independence.
Thomas Jefferson
8

127019-)
In a sonnet about this man, he looks at his "blotched, bent hands" and offers the one-word observation, "Worms," after he laments, "Who's left alive to understand my jokes?" This man is the unnamed subject of a poem with a cumulative pattern whose penultimate stanza begins, "These are the years and the walls and the door that shut on a boy that pats the floor to feel if the world is there and flat." Gary Snyder's poem "Axe Handles" revolves around a proverb he learned by reading this man, who is also the subject of Elizabeth Bishop's poem "Visits to St. Elizabeths." Public reaction to this man receiving the first Bollingen Prize caused the Library of Congress to withdraw its involvement. In the aforementioned Robert Lowell sonnet, this man refers to his mistress Olga Rudge, saying that she "knew it was shit, and still loved me" when he "talked that nonsense about Jews on the Rome wireless." For 10 points, name this modernist poet who wrote Hugh Selwyn Mauberley and promoted Imagism.
Ezra Pound
8

127043-)
This essay argues that from the perspective of the intellect, sin has no essence, but is "diminution or  less ," whereas the conscience feels sin "as essence," viewing it as "pravity or  bad ." This essay identifies the Fall of Man with the "unhappy...discovery we have made, that we exist." Denying the possibility of access to objective reality, this essay analogizes people to "colored and distorting lenses" that "we have no means of correcting...or of computing the amount of their errors." This essay lists "Illusion, Temperament, Succession, Surface, Surprise, Reality, Subjectiveness" as the "lords of life." The oft-quoted aphorism "We live amid surfaces, and the true art of life is to skate well on them" appears in this essay. This essay's author writes, "I grieve that grief can teach me nothing," after remarking, on a rare autobiographical note, that his son died over two years ago. For 10 points, name this essay by Ralph Waldo Emerson about the disappointments of the title phenomenon.
" Experience "
8

127050-)
This poem's speaker compares a skittish animal to "one who takes everything said as personal to himself." This poem is set among "tall slim trees too much alike to mark or name a place by so as to say for certain I was here or somewhere else." This poem's speaker encounters a bird who would "say no word to tell me who he was who was so foolish as to think what  he  thought," fearing the speaker wants the white feather in his tail. Contemplating this poem's title object, the speaker says "I thought that only someone who lived in turning to fresh tasks could so forget his handiwork on which he spent himself." This poem, the penultimate entry in  North of Boston , ends with the image of "the slow smokeless burning of decay." For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem in which the narrator "out walking in the frozen swamp" discovers the title mass, an abandoned "cord of maple."
"The  Wood-Pile "
8

127075-)
This author described traveling around London with a companion app programmed with W. G. Sebald's personality in an account of the Olympics for Grantland.com, "Hard Times in the Uncanny Valley." In one of this author's novels, the protagonist intercedes for Ned the Copy Boy, a former office employee Xeroxing a picture of a butt forever. A "sweeper" nicknamed after Mark Spitz picks off "skels" in Manhattan in that novel by this author, which is set after the zombie apocalypse. This former television columnist for the Village Voice responded to a patronizing review by James Wood by parodying Wood's style in the essay "Wow, Fiction Works!" Lila Mae Watson searches for the "black box" in a novel by this author about warring elevator inspectors, and two slaves flee from Ridgeway on a literal train beneath the earth in his most recent book. For 10 points, name this contemporary novelist of Zone One, The Intuitionist, and The Underground Railroad.
Colson Whitehead
8

127089-)
A memoir relates how this writer checked himself into Silver Hill Hospital for psychiatric treatment in response to the disappointing reviews of the novel he believed to be his masterpiece. This writer's memoirs include an account of his father Herman's struggle with and eventual death from a supposedly benign brain tumor. This novelist had a strained relationship with his daughter-in-law Anna Steiger and disapproved of her long stays in his New York apartment. This author of Patrimony had his conduct as a husband attacked in the scandalous memoir Leaving a Doll's House, which was written by his actress ex-wife Claire Bloom, whom he portrayed in one of his novels as Eve Frame. Anatole Broyard's racial passing was long believed to be the inspiration for this writer's novel about Professor Coleman Silk. For 10 points, name this American writer whose alter ego Nathan Zuckerman narrates novels including I Married a Communist and The Human Stain.
Philip Roth [or Philip Milton Roth]
8

127096-)
In a poem, one of these animals "believes we may long for one more dream...before we come home to our strange bodies and rise from the dead." Two of these animals "bow shyly as wet swans" in a poem whose speaker observes, "There is no loneliness like theirs," and concludes, "Suddenly I realize that if I stepped out of my body I would break into blossom." An encounter with two of these animals is the subject of James Wright's "A Blessing." In another poem named for one of these animals, the speaker says, "I foam to wheat, a glitter of seas" a7ter describing "the substanceless blue pour of tor and distances" a7ter the "stasis in darkness." One of these animals is the title subject of Sylvia Plath's "Ariel," and another of these animals "must think it queer to stop without a farmhouse near" in a Robert Frost poem. For 10 points, name this type of animal, one of which appears in "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening" and "gives his harness bells a shake."
horse [or pony]
8

127141-)
In a poem set at this location, the speaker hears "peals of distant ironical laughter at every word I have written" and describes himself as "ba  led, balk'd, bent to the very earth" in his awareness that "before all my arrogant poems the real Me stands yet untouch'd, untold, altogether unreach'd." In another poem set at this location, the speaker calls himself a "uniter of here and herea ter, taking all hints to use them, but swi tly leaping beyond them." In that poem set at this location, the speaker requests "a word then, (for I will conquer it,) the word  nal, superior to all," and hears whispered in response "the low and delicious word death." The aforementioned poems set at this location describe the "moaning" of "the  erce old mother" who "endlessly cries for her castaways." For 10 points, name this location, the setting of Walt Whitman poems including "Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking," in which the speaker observes a "he-bird" sitting "amid the slapping waves."
the beach [or the shore; or the strand; or the ocean; or the sea; or Paumanok]
8

127174-)
A minor character in this play talks by alternately sucking air in and blowing it out, which causes consternation when she blows out birthday candles. Several characters in this play reminisce about drinking vile mustard soup. Every scene in this play except the first and the last begins with a voiceover of a letter written by a traveling scrap metal worker. A woman in this play marries a mentally-challenged movie usher named Johnny and borrows five thousand dollars to start a restaurant with him. To pay for some pretzels, a protagonist of this play volunteers to carry a small black satchel for his uncle Louie, an ex-mobster. In this play's opening scene, set in an apartment above a candy store, Eddie forbids Bella from making ice cream sundaes for his children, Jay and Arty. For 10 points, name this Pulitzer-winning playabout a dictatorial Jewish grandmother, written by Neil Simon and set in a namesake city in NewYork.
Lost in Yonkers
8

127205-)
A poem by this author informs George Herbert that "your descendant is a Black / Lady in South Carolina, her name is Irma," and describes a man who helped girls jump out of windows during the Triangle Shirtwaist Fire. The player uses a "neuro-electronic matrix" to enter the memories of four deceased individuals in this man's collaborative work with Synapse Software, the interaction fiction game Mindwheel. A long poem by this author dubs members of the title profession "the first citizens of contingency," and presents The Bacchae as a case study in madness. This author collected his poems "Shirt" and "Essay on Psychiatrists" in the collections The Want Bone and The Figured Wheel, respectively. The lines "Midway on our life's journey, I found myself / In dark woods, the right road lost" open a terza rima- preserving translation by this man. For 10 points, name this founder of the Favorite Poem Project, a former US Poet Laureate who translated Dante's Inferno.
Robert  Pinsky
8

127223-)
One of these characters is overwhelmed by the "responsibility" of freezing everyone else in the world to realize his solipsistic sexual fantasies. The father of one of these characters is a bathroom attendant in a fancy hotel who stoically bears dealing with people's crap. Another of these characters refers to his tiny disfigured arm as "the Asset," because he uses it to elicit pity from others. Johnny One-Arm is one of these people, as is someone who falls in love with a woman who survived an encounter with another serial killer; that character refers to that woman as the Granola Cruncher. Their monologues are given in response to questions that are omitted from the text. One of these characters is dressed in a suit and has a paper bag over his face on the cover of the book they appear in. For 10 points, name these characters featured in a set of "brief interviews" by David Foster Wallace.
hideous men [prompt on partial answer; prompt on "interviewees" before "brief" is read]
8

127230-)
This author wrote a libretto based on the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle for Deems Taylor's opera The King's Henchman. A "wind with a wolf's head" howls around the door of the central figures, who "were happy / for half an hour's time" while rocking in a chair together, in a poem that won this author a Pulitzer. The sight of a starving man in Capri prompts a passage abouthow the "awful weight" of "Infinity/Pressed down upon the finite Me!" in a poem by this author that controversially lost a contest in The Lyric Year to Orrick Johns. She wrote of how God "in one big torrent, set me free, washing my grave away from me!" in a poem that opens "All  I could see from where I stood/Was three long mountains and a wood". For 10 points, name this poet of "The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver" and "Renascence" who claimed "my candle burns at both ends; it will not last the night" in the first poem from her A Few Figs from Thistles. 
Edna St. Vincent  Millay
8

127245-)
An author with this surname created the CIA-led "King Alfred Plan," a fictional plot to intern African-Americans, in his novel about the expat journalist Max Reddick, The Man Who Cried I Am. Another author with this surname wrote a novel whose title character dies as the phrase "What did you expect?" runs through his mind, and split a National Book Award with JohnBarth for his historical novel Augustus. That author with this surname created a character who majors in literature after reading Shakespeare's Sonnet 73 and later clashes with the villainous Hollis Lomax at the University of Missouri. Another author with this surname penned a play in which Violet threatens to lobotomize Catherine Holly, who eventually explains the death-by- cannibalism suffered by her homosexual cousin Sebastian Venable. For 10 points, give the surname shared by the novelist of Stoner and the playwright of Suddenly, Last Summer and The Glass Menagerie.
Williams [accept John A(lfred) Williams, John (Edward) Williams, Tennessee Williams, or Thomas Lanier Williams III]
8

127280-)
A poem by this author continues from where Gerard Manley Hopkins's "Inversnaid", praising the title entities for overwhelming his "narrow vegetable realm" and shaping "the creature that is I". This author of "Long Live the Weeds" asks "which I is I?" in a poem that states that madness is but "nobility of soul at odds with circumstance". This poet marvels at "the shapes a bright container can contain" in a poem whose four stanzas each end with parentheticals, including "(But what prodigious mowing we did make)" and "(I measure time by how a body sways)". The whiskey-breathed title character of another of his poems "beat time on" the narrator's "head with a palm caked hard by dirt" while performing the title dance. This poet claimed to "feel my fate in what I cannot fear" in a villanelle that ends with the line "I learn by going where I have to go". For 10 points, name this American poet of "I Knew a Woman", "My Papa's Waltz", and "The Waking".
Theodore Roethke [or Theodore Huebner Roethke]
8

127295-)
A trio of lines in this poem beginning "Ever of her he thought" are followed by a section of "praise of the virtuous woman" based on Proverbs. A character in this poem angrily removes the arrows from a rattlesnake-skin, then fills the skin with powder and bullets. Another character in this poem dismisses the "misty phantoms of passion" as "delusions of Satan" and repeats the question "Must I relinquish it all?" while walking through the woods. This poem's fourth section, "The Lover's Errand", ends with the primary female character asking "Why don't you speak for yourself, John?" This poem ends with the ghost of the title character, previously killed byIndians, appearing to bless the wedding of John Alden and Priscilla Mullins. For 10 points, name this narrative poem about a love triangle involving the title "Captain of Plymouth", written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
The Courtship of Miles Standish
8

127323-)
The writing of this novel, as well as the history that inspired it, were fictionalized in Emma Tennant's novel Felony. The previous failures of John Cumnor inspire the protagonist of this story, who is assisted by Mrs. Prest. The assertion ";We are divided of course between liking to feel the past strange and liking to feel it familiar"; appears in the preface to this novella, which opens Volume 12 of the New York Editions and describes how it was inspired by Augustus Silsbee and Claire Clairmont. At this story's end, the narrator sends payment for a miniature portrait to Miss Tita, who earlier horrified him with the revelation that she burned the title objects. This novella's narrator is dubbed a ";publishing scoundrel"; after he sneaks into Juliana Bordereau's room to search her desk for the title objects. For 10 points, name this Henry James novella whose narrator is obsessed with finding the title poet's correspondence.
The Aspern Papers
8

127344-)
One character in this play assigns various things letter grades, such as calling Janis Joplin an";A- singer"; and claiming a potato chip has ";B- texture and C+ crunch". That character in this play is a journalist who dropped out of Princeton, which he calls the ";Woodrow Wilson School of International Bullshit". The ";Shoop Shoop"; song plays at a high school dance in the first actof this play, which the title character attends with Susan Johnston. The title character of this play reacts angrily when she discovers her best friend is not madly in love with her because he's actually homosexual. A lecture at Columbia in this play discusses Three Sisters Playing Chess, Judith Beheading Holofernes, and other paintings. This play's title character attends a rally for Eugene McCarthy's campaign, where she falls in love with Scoop Rosenbaum. For 10 points, name this play following the life of a feminist art historian, which was written by Wendy Wasserstein.
The Heidi Chronicles
8

127368-)
This character trips on a sidewalk crack while contemplating dandelions after buying three cents' worth of Mary Jane candies from Mr. Yacobowski's store. The sight of this character scratching the back of her calf with her toe while washing dishes reminds another character of how his wife did the same thing when they met. This character has a cat thrown at her face by Louis Junior and is tricked into feeding poisoned meat to a dog with pus in its eyes by the "spiritual advisor" Soaphead Church. This character is driven insane after being raped by her father Cholly. Early in the novel, this character drinks several quarts of milk in order to see Shirley Temple's face at the bottom of a cup after being sent to live with the MacTeers. For 10 points, name this character whose desire to be white leads her to fantasize about having the titular symbol of beauty in Toni Morrison's The Bluest Eye.
Pecola Breedlove [accept either underlined answer]
8

127416-)
This character claims that he will have one hand over his scrotum as he defends a "saloon in West Berlin where the barstools are five feet high," while his other free hand will be used to "battle Â… to the death." At the beginning of a play, this character is unable to identify a Bette Davis film after another character states "What a dump!" This character was unable to publishhis "memory book", a novel about a boy who accidentally killed both his mother, with a shotgun, and his father, in a car accident. Another character tells a story describing how this character fell into a huckleberry bush after she punched him squarely in the jaw; during that story thischaracter pulls out a short-barrel shotgun and fires a yellow Chinese parasol out of it. He tells a story about "Mousie" to mock another character's hysterical pregnancy during a game of "Get the Guests". For 10 points, name this mean-spirited professor, the husband of Martha in Who'sAfraid of Virginia Woolf? 
George
8

127433-)
A section of this book describes the "coloured woman" Zilpha, who shouts "Ye are all bones, bones!" after her house is burnt down. In the last section of this book, the author suggests that "it is not worth the while to go round the world to count the cats in Zanzibar" after imploring the reader to be "the Mungo Park, the Lewis and Clark, and Frobisher of your own streams". That section of this book concludes "there is more to day than dawn. The Sun is but a morning star." During a rainstorm, the narrator of this book stays in the house of the Irishman John Field, whom he tells "I did not work hard." Conversations with the poet Ellery Channing comprise its piece "Brute Neighbors," while a poem called "The Pretensions of Poverty" ends its first section "Economy," which sums up the costs of building a house near the title body of water. For 10 points, name this book by Henry David Thoreau.
Walden; [or Life in the Woods]
8

127454-)
Gilles Leroy won a Prix Goncourt for his ";novel"; about this author, who is visited in Asheville by the male protagonist in Tennessee Williams's Clothes for a Summer Hotel. Articles by this author including "The Changing Beauty of Park Avenue" and "Paint and Powder" were, according to Matthew Bruccoli's Some Sort of Epic Grandeur, often published only under a shared byline. This author's sudden late-20s obsession with ballet, her affair with the pilot Edouard Jozan on the French Riviera, and her origin as the daughter of a Southern judge all factored into the plot of her only novel. Nancy Milford made her name with a 1970 biography of this author of Save Me the Waltz. This woman's anesthesia-influenced wish that her daughter become a "beautiful little fool" was placed verbatim into the mouth of Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this woman who was fictionalized as Nicole Warren in her husband's novel Tender is the Night.
Zelda Fitzgerald [or Zelda Sayre; prompt on Fitzgerald]
8

127481-)
A character in this poem notes "The Laurentian Landshield was ruthlessly gerrymandered, / And there was a terrible tussle over the Tethys Ocean". The lines "creation lay in pain and earnest, once more reprieved from self-destruction, its adoption, as usual postponed" conclude this poem, which contains a "dirge" section whose speakers dream of "some Gilgamesh or Napoleon, some Solon or Sherlock Holmes" who can rescue them from "their egregious destructive blunders." This poem's first part ends by describing Captain Kidd, who in his "Quiz Programme HOW ALERT ARE YOU" announces themes of "HOMO ABYSSUS OCCIDENTALIS" or "SEVEN SELFISH SUPPERLESS" periods. Dedicated to John Betjeman, this poem opens at a bar in New York City and is subtitled "A Baroque Epilogue." Quant, Malin, Rosetta and Emble are the speakers of, for 10 points, what long poem by W. H. Auden named for the uncertain, industrialized world?
"The Age of Anxiety"
8

127497-)
Near the conclusion of this novel, the narrator has a dream that takes place in a room with a giant silver dollar, where his ex-wife suggests that they cryogenically preserve themselves for the future. This novel's title character stays with an avid fan of karate movies named Nikki and is diagnosed with Guillain-Barre syndrome. This novel opens in the penthouse of the Hotel Crillon, where the narrator observes Michael Jackson's entourage staying in the floor below them and is told to read a biography of John Maynard Keynes. Six years after the death of the title character, its narrator nearly dies after being poisoned with ciguatoxin, which inspires its narrator, Chick, to write a memoir about a professor who is based on the real-life author of The Closing of the American Mind. Allan Bloom inspired the title academic of, for 10 points, what final novel by Saul Bellow?
Ravelstein
8

127522-)
One of this author's poems describes someone who strode and rode "across the hills and broke them" and ends by using a line from George Meredith to describe how "Matthew and Waldo" embody the "army of unalterable law." After reading Bertrand Russell's "A Free Man's Worship," he wrote a poem whose title figure "laughed like an irresponsible fetus" and visited the "palace of Mr. Phlaccus, at Professor Channing Cheetah's." Another of his poems is set "Among the reaches of the street, held in lunar synthesis" and features street lamps delivering various lines, including "Regard the moon, / La lune ne garde aucune rancune"; that poem ends with the image of "the last twist of the knife." This author of "Cousin Nancy," "Mr. Apollinax" and "Rhapsody on a Windy Night"included those poems in a collection whose title poem ends "human voices wake us, and we drown." For 10 points, name this author of "The Lovesong of J. Alfred Prufrock."
T. S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]
8

127543-)
This author's story about Swift Doyer's domestic abuse is presented as a duel between "an alarm clock" and "a suicidal purpose." A surreal story by this man features a giant tigress watching over the title crying infants. This author wrote "In the Tenderloin" and "An Explosion of Seven Babies", the latter of which is one of his Sullivan County Sketches. In another story by this man, a drummer's tale about a "woman with two scuttles of coal" is interrupted, causing two Mexicans to leave the Weary Gentlemen Saloon when the town drunk comes by, causing a character to board it up. In that story by this author, a character admits that "I ain't got a gun on me," and that he has just returned from San Antonio with his new wife. A gunfight between Scratchy Wilson and Jack Potter does not take place in a story by, for 10 points, what author of "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky" and "The Open Boat"?
Stephen  Crane
8

127556-)
A poem compares the ";finite infinity"; of the ";polar privacy"; of this entity with the ";solitude of space,"; a ";solitude of sea,"; and the ";solitude of death."; This thing ";dances like a Bomb, abroad, / And swings upon the Hours"; in a poem in which a ";Goblin"; caresses ";her freezing hair;"; in that poem, this thing ";has moments of Escape"; and also has ";Bandaged moments."; In a third poem, this entity ";notes the Chariots Â– pausing Â– at her low Gate"; and eventually ";closes the Valves of her attention Â– like stone";.  Yet another poem asserts that in case ";the Heaven inquire,"; this thing ";should always stand ajar";. This thing is also said to shut ";the Door / to herdivine Majority"; after it ";selects her own Society";. ";Hope"; is the thing with feathers that perchesinside, for 10 points, what entity, according to Emily Dickinson? 
the Soul
8

127573-)
A cover of this publication featured the quote "Oh my God--we hit a little girl," taken from the story "M" by John Sack. Carol Holsgrove's book It Wasn't Pretty, Folks, but Didn't We Have Fun? is a chronicle of this publication's time under editor Harold Hayes. The first unsigned piece of fiction to appear in this publication was "For Rupert--With No Promises," a parody of J. D. Salinger. Several scandal-sparking chapters of the unfinished novel Answered Prayers byTruman Capote were published in this magazine. A version of the story "Neighbors" published in this magazine that was aggressively cut down by its fiction editor Gordon Lish gave rise to Raymond Carver's characteristic minimalism. In a story published in this magazine, the words "they were young again, it was yesterday" conclude a 95-word sentence about Old-Timer's Day at Yankee Stadium. For 10 points, name this magazine that published "The Silent Season of a Hero" and "Frank Sinatra Has a Cold" after it hired the New Journalist Gay Talese.
Esquire magazine
8

127679-)
This man controversially critiqued the Miranda decision by noting "you don't have many suspects who are innocent of a crime." He was the chief of staff who urged Governor Ronald Reagan to crack down on the Berkeley rioters. For 10 points, name this man, an Attorney General under Reagan, most infamous for his namesake commission, which declared pornography harmful.
Edwin Meese
7

127783-)
While not the official Spanish ambassador, this man filled in for John Hay and Joseph Choate during the Hay-Pauncefote Treaty negotiations. This man represented the U.S. at the Algeciras Conference and was the former president Teddy Roosevelt's chief of staff during his tour of Europe. In his last diplomatic role, he was the go between for Henry Cabot Lodge's faction and Woodrow Wilson. For 10 points, name this accomplished diplomat, the Republican representative at the Versailles peace talks.
Henry White
7

127924-)
This character, along with Edith, tours a tenement house which is kept as a memorial to capitalism. He receives his "credit card" in the sequel to his first appearance, Equality, and is lectured on the wonders of the age by Doctor Leete. His mortgages are now worthless thanks  to the destruction of the New York Stock Exchange. This character falls into a hypnosis-induced sleep and wakes up in the year 2000 in Boston, which is now a socialist utopia. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Edward Bellamy's utopian novel Looking Backward.
Julian West [accept either]
7

128235-)
A protagonist from this city cherishes a memory of being shot in the shoulder during the Korean War and is Binx Bolling, the protagonist of The Moviegoer. Walker Percy, that novel's author, helped publish a novel about a man in this city who complains about his pyloric valve and evokes the goddess Fortuna as part of his fascination with Boethius' Consolation of Philosophy. Another character moves to this city after losing a job as a (*) teacher as well as Belle Rive plantation and is later assaulted by Stanley Kowalski. For 10 points, name this city home to Ignatius J. Reilly, the protagonist of John Kennedy Toole's Confederacy of Dunces, as well as Blanche Dubois from A Streetcar Named Desire.
New Orleans
7

128242-)
A November 2015 Michael Lewis Vanity Fair profile described how this author's best known fashion choice came from discovering a certain piece of clothing could be worn in winter as well as summer. That profile says that this man made Chuck Yeager famous in a book about the Mercury 7. At the end of one novel, this author argues that "in the court of the conscience, the defendants" in a certain case would include African- American preacher Reginald Bacon and journalist Peter Fallow of The City Light. The phrase (*) "Masters of the Universe" was coined to describe financiers in that novel by this author in which Henry Lamb is hit by a car driven by Wall Street bond trader Sherman McCoy. For 10 points, name this author of The Right Stuff and The Bonfire of the Vanities.
Tom Wolfe [or Thomas Kennerly "Tom" Wolfe, Jr.; do not accept or prompt on "Thomas Wolfe" by itself] 
7

128274-)
At this play's end, a mentally impaired war veteran unsuccessfully tries to use a broken trumpet to open up heaven, after which he dances and cries out. This play's protagonist talks about having had a fight with Death while talking to his friend Bono on payday in his front yard, the same location where the rest of this play is set. Alberta dies in childbirth in this play, leading the child's father to ask if his daughter Raynell can be raised by his wife (*) Rose. This play's protagonist refuses to let his son Cory apply for a football scholarship because of the racism he was subject to as a player in the Negro Leagues, and becomes the first black garbage truck driver in town. For 10 points, name this play about Troy Maxson, the sixth play in August Wilson's Pittsburgh Cycle.
Fences
7

128285-)
One depiction of this city features the lines "Bareheaded / Shoveling / Wrecking / Planning / Building, breaking, rebuilding." That depiction of this city features three lines beginning with the three phrases "They tell me you are wicked," "And they tell me you are crooked," and "And they tell me you are brutal." Those depictions appear in a collection named for this city, as does a poem which describes an entity which (*) "comes on little cat feet." This city is described in its most famous poetic depiction as "Tool Maker, Stacker of Wheat" as well as "City of the Big Shoulders." For 10 points, name this city described as "Hog Butcher for the World" in a Carl Sandburg poem because of its meatpacking industry, which is also where The Jungle is set.
Chicago
7

128304-)
One of this author's novels fictitiously places the death of Catullus in 44 BCE. That novel, an existentialist depiction of the assassination of Julius Caesar, was this author's novel The Ides of March. This author wrote a novel which centers around the Convent of Santa MarÃ­a Rosa de la Rosas and the actress Camila Perichole, who sees her adopted Uncle Pio and son Jaime die in this novel at the same time as the brother of a man who loved her, Esteban. That novel by this author is based on a book which is (*) burned along with its writer, a monk, by the Inquisition. For 10 points, name this author who depicted Brother Juniper's investigation into the deaths of five people after the collapse of the title structure in The Bridge of San Luis Rey.
Thornton Wilder
7

128334-)
The second part of one of this author's novels consists of an autobiography written by one of its characters as therapy. That character created by this author rebelled against her family by getting a basketball scholarship to the University of Minnesota and later had an affair with the songwriter of the album Nameless Lake, Richard Katz. This author was criticized for elitism after saying that his goal of (*) "actually reaching a male audience" made him uncomfortable about one of his novels' selection for Oprah's Book Club. That novel by this author centers on Enid's plans to have her family, including her dementia-suffering husband Alfred, return to St. Jude for Christmas together. For 10 points, name this American author of Freedom and The Corrections.
Jonathan Franzen
7

128354-)
In the first and last chapters of one of his novels, this author featured a street preaching family led by Asa. In that novel by this author, Sparser hits a girl while driving a stolen car in Kansas City, leading the protagonist to move to Chicago, where he meets an uncle who gets him a job in the factory town of (*) Lycurgus, New York. A girl is hit in the face with a camera, leading to her drowning, in that novel by this author which sees Roberta Alden's death cause the execution of Clyde Griffiths. This author also wrote a novel about a girl who becomes a Broadway actress after discarding her lovers Charles Drouet and George Hurstwood. For 10 points, name this author of An American Tragedy as well as Sister Carrie.
Theodore Herman Albert Dreiser 
7

128362-)
One poem by this author asks that "the charms of each seraphic theme / Conduct thy footsteps to immortal fame" and ends with the speaker describing how "the solemn gloom of night / Now seals the fair creation from my sight." In another poem, this author portrays a "Goddess" who "moves divinely fair" after describing a "Celestial choir! enthron'd in realms of light." That poem by this author laments "Cruel blindness to (*) Columbia's state" and tells its listener to "Proceed, great chief, with virtue on thy side." This author notes that "Some view our sable race with scornful eye" in a poem that begins "'Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land." For 10 points, name this poet of "To His Excellency George Washington" and "On Being Brought from Africa to America."
Phyllis Wheatley
7

128395-)
A character in this novel asks himself "Why do you laugh? Is it because you hate the sound of laughing?" in a chapter that ends with him repeating the word "yes." A priest in this novel worries about a woman revealing their affair on her deathbed as he crosses a river on the way to her home and is named Whitfield. A chapter in this novel that begins (*) "I made it on the bevel" and consists of a numbered list is followed by a chapter containing only the sentence "My mother is a fish." In this novel, Jewel runs away after learning his horse was sold, and Anse takes away Dewey Dell's money to buy "new teeth" after burying his wife. For 10 points, name this William Faulkner novel in which the Bundren family transports Addie's coffin to its resting place in Jefferson.
As I Lay Dying 
7

128403-)
This character is described as having "a soft and foolish heart towards the sex" and that it is not surprising that "so tempting a morsel soon found favor in his eyes." After being rejected by a woman, this man has the air of one who had been "sacking a henroost, rather than a fair lady's heart." An old farmer claims this character became "a justice of the Ten Pound Court" rather than meeting a supernatural end. A group of men prank this character by stopping up a chimney to dissuade him from pursuing (*) Katrina Van Tassel. This character is struck by a pumpkin and falls off a horse named Gunpowder while being chased by Brom Bones masquerading as the Headless Horseman. For 10 points, name this schoolmaster from "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow."
Ichabod Crane [accept either]
7

128424-)
One novel by this author begins with the protagonist's mother wailing "how can you?" while waving around a note from a bell-boy. In that novel by this author, Ralph Marvell tries to comfort the protagonist as she sobs upon realizing she is pregnant and will lose "a whole year out of life." Another character created by this author laughs maniacally in front of his sister Janey after discovering that Mrs. (*) Manson Mingott has approved moving up the date of his wedding in a telegram sent to Ellen Olenska. Along with a work about Newland Archer, this author wrote a work in which a woman discovers that her pickle dish has been broken before her husband and Mattie attempt suicide by sledding into a tree. For 10 points, name this author of The Age of Innocence and Ethan Frome.
Edith Wharton 
7

128454-)
One poem by this author describes a "female form" and how a "divine nimbus exhales from it from head to foot" before the speaker claims he is "drawn by its breath" like a "helpless vapor." In another poem, this author orders "Flow on, river! Flow with the flood-tide, and ebb with the ebb-tide" after describing those who "will enter the gates of the (*) ferry and cross from shore to shore." A poem by this author concludes with a lengthy list that includes "ankles, instep, foot-ball, toes" before the line "O I say now these are the soul!" In another poem, this author claims the "ship is anchor'd safe and sound, its voyage closed and done" and repeats that its title figure is "fallen cold and dead." For 10 points, name this poet of "I Sing the Body Electric" and "O Captain! My Captain!" 
Walt Whitman 
7

128474-)
In one poem, this author describes how a "man was starving in Capri / He moves his eyes and looked at me" before seeing "two ships that struck and sank" and "every scream tore through my throat." In another poem by this author, the speaker goes into "some quiet place" and says "There is no memory of him here!" before standing "stricken, so remembering him." That poem by this author describes missing a man "in the weeping of the rain" and begins, (*) "Time does not bring relief; you all have lied." A poem by this author that begins "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood" is titled "Renascence." A short poem by this author claims "My candle burns at both ends / It will not last the night." For 10 points, name this poet of "First Fig."
Edna St. Vincent Millay 
7

128482-)
In this novel, the protagonist approaches a man who is seemingly sleeping under a statue of a dancing nymph before they have a conversation in which he claims she is "going to be put into a cage." The protagonist of this novel complains "it's too lovely to be put in the newspapers" as she rejects the attempt of a reporter from the Interviewer to write an article about her uncle's estate. In addition to (*) Henrietta Stackpole, another character in this novel meets the protagonist in Florence and is revealed to have conceived his daughter Pansy during an affair with Madame Merle. This novel ends with the protagonist returning to Rome after comforting a dying Ralph Touchett. For 10 points, name this Henry James novel about the failed marriage between Isabel Archer and Gilbert Osmond.
Portrait of a Lady 
7

128515-)
This character's first stage direction describes her as having "an endless capacity for dissembling." This character cries as she tells a man she "cannot dream but I wake and walk about the house as though I'd find you comin' through some door." This girl threatens to "come to you in the black of some terrible night" after she smashes another girl across the face for claiming that she drank (*) blood. While being interrogated by a priest, a woman cannot bring herself to admit that she dismissed this character as a servant because she had sex with her husband. By pretending to be affected by a cold wind and to see a yellow bird, this character reduces Mary Warren to tears and gets her to accuse John Proctor of being "the Devil's man." For 10 points, name this antagonist of The Crucible.
Abigail Williams [accept either] 
7

128532-)
A character from a play set in this city spends nine years yelling for his ham after a butcher reneges on a deal and offers him chicken instead. Sterling attends the funeral of Hambone in a play set in this city, where a wise woman lives in the Hill and dies at the age of 366. In a play set in this city, a head injury causes a war veteran to believe he is the Archangel (*) Gabriel. This city, the setting of Two Trains Running, is the home of the Charles family, which gets into a long and bitter fight over Boy Willie's attempts to sell the title instrument. In another play set here, Troy Maxson refuses to let his son play college football out of fear of racial discrimination. For 10 points, what city is the setting of The Piano Lesson and Fences, two plays from a cycle by August Wilson?
Pittsburgh
6

128557-)
Michael Moon claims that the speaker of this poem uses the "energy of" a lonely girl's "desires" in order to caress young men who "do not ask who seizes fast to them." This poem ends by reassuring its addressee that "I stop somewhere waiting for you." In this poem, a lonely woman spies on "twenty-eight young men" bathing by the shore. This poem invites the speaker's soul to "loafe" and "[o]bserveÂ… a spear of summer (*) grass" and later compares the grass to "the uncut hair of graves." In this poem, the speaker declares, "I contain multitudes" and sounds his "barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world." For 10 points, name this long poem from Leaves of Grass which begins "I celebrate myself, and sing myself," written by Walt Whitman.
"Song of Myself" 
6

128575-)
17. Members of this family recite Dowson and Swinburne with lines like, "though we sang as angels in her ear, / She would not hear," causing their father to state that they should read more Shakespeare. The matriarch of this family believes one of its members intentionally killed Eugene by infecting him with measles. A member of this family tells a story about Shaughnessy's pigs breaking into an ice pond, a story which is central to the play A (*) Moon for the Misbegotten. In the play this family appears in, Doctor Hardy diagnoses Edmund with tuberculosis. This family's matriarch Mary is addicted to morphine, and its male members such as James and Jamie suffer from alcoholism.  For 10 points, name this family at the center of Eugene O'Neill's Long Day's Journey Into Night.
Tyrone family 
6

128583-)
A narrative poem by this author begins when a husband and wife see their child's grave from the top of a staircase. In a poem by this author, the speaker "[p]asses by the watchman on his beat" and sees "One luminary clock against the sky" while taking a walk at the title time. The speaker of a poem by this author is interrupted when his (*) horse "gives his harness bells a shake." This author of "Home Burial" and "Acquainted with the Night" wrote a poem whose speaker has "promises to keep" and "miles to go before I sleep." The speaker of a poem by this author chooses a path that is "grassy" and "[w]ants wear" and says "that has made all the difference." For 10 points, name this poet of "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening," and "The Road Not Taken."
Robert Frost 
6

128618-)
A story by this author ends with a man dying before he can add a candle to an altar for the despised Acton Hague. In another story by this author, a man wakes up in Alice's lap after he faints while chasing the ghost of the successful businessman he might have become. This author of "The Altar of the Dead" wrote about Spencer Brydon in "The Jolly Corner." The protagonist of a story by this author sees "a horror" glaring at her from outside a dining room window, which she later identifies as the apparition of (*) Peter Quint. This author wrote about an unnamed governess who struggles with the ghosts of Quint and Miss Jessel while taking care of Miles and Flora. For 10 points, name this author of The Turn of the Screw.
Henry James 
6

128658-)
This character swears off speculation after a cow he spends ten dollars on dies and he believes he has lost money on the stock market. This character wears a five-center piece that he acquired after being ridden across the countryside by witches. When he finds out he's worth eight hundred dollars, this character wishes could have that money so he wouldn't "wan' no mo'." This character is painted blue and marketed as "The (*) Sick Arab" by two men claiming to be a Duke and Dauphin. An attempt to free this character is cut short by Aunt Polly's revelation that he had already been freed in Miss Watson's will. A boy who escapes Widow Douglas' attempts to civilize him travels with -- for 10 points -- which runaway slave from Mark Twain's The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn?
Jim
6

128669-)
The term for this poetic movement was coined in a review by M.L. Rosenthal. A poem from this movement states, "A woman like that is not a woman" and declares, "I have been her kind," while another poem from the same collection from this movement describes its author's mental state "Part way back from Bedlam." A poem from a movement named for this style describes construction near the Boston Aquarium disturbing a monument to (*) Colonel Shaw. A poet from this movement published the collections The Awful Rowing Toward God, while a different, male member of this movement wrote the poem "For the Union Dead." For 10 points, Anne Sexton, Robert Lowell, and Sylvia Plath belonged to what poetic movement of the 1950s which focused on personal experience and trauma?
Confessional Poetry 
6

128682-)
A story by this author follows a man who "first wishes to throw bricks at the temple" and "hates deeply the fact that there are no bricks and no temples," and had earlier hoped for a "house of refuge" at Mosquito Light Inlet. In a story by this author, a man shoots at a dog sleeping outside a boarded-up saloon. A story that opens with the line (*) "None of them knew the color of the sky" was inspired by this author's shipwreck aboard the SS Commodore. In another story by this author, Scratchy Wilson lowers his revolvers in disbelief after finding out the town marshall has gotten married. For 10 points, name this author of the short stories "The Open Boat" and "The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky" who also wrote about Henry Fleming in The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane 
6

128722-)
A novel by this author contains an anachronistic pun about a "[b]linking," "[s]hivering," "L.E.D." This author included a polymath "Learned English Dog" in a conspiracy-laden novel centrally narrated by Reverend Cherrycoke. The protagonist of a novel by this author fixates on a symbol of a muted post horn and is appointed as the executor of the will of the late Pierce Inverarity. This author of (*) Mason &amp; Dixon wrote about a woman who looks for traces of the Tristero named Oedipa Maas. A novel by this author opens "A screaming comes across the sky," and its title alternatively refers to the structure of the plot or the arclike trajectory of a V-2 rocket. For 10 points, name this author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow.
Thomas Pynchon [Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Jr] 
6

128723-)
A novel by this author contains an anachronistic pun about a "[b]linking," "[s]hivering," "L.E.D." This author included a polymath "Learned English Dog" in a conspiracy-laden novel centrally narrated by Reverend Cherrycoke. The protagonist of a novel by this author fixates on a symbol of a muted post horn and is appointed as the executor of the will of the late Pierce Inverarity. This author of (*) Mason &amp; Dixon wrote about a woman who looks for traces of the Tristero named Oedipa Maas. A novel by this author opens "A screaming comes across the sky," and its title alternatively refers to the structure of the plot or the arclike trajectory of a V-2 rocket. For 10 points, name this author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow.
Thomas 
Pynchon
 [Thomas Ruggles 
Pynchon
, Jr]
6

128754-)
Two girls in a short poem by this author repeat the line "We were very tired, we were very merry" while taking the ferry back home after a night out. The speaker of another poem by this author of "Recuerdo" advises a former lover to "make the most ofÂ… your little day," because "I shall forget you presently." This author first gained national fame with a poem whose speaker "sankÂ… Full six feet below the earth" after being crushed by "infinity" while trying to touch the sky; that poem by this author opens, (*) "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood." This author declares, "My candle burns at both ends; / It will not last the night" in "First Fig." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote the collection A Few Figs From Thistles, as well as the long lyric poem "Renascence."
Edna St. Vincent Millay 
6

128768-)
The epilogue of a novel by this author is a New York Times article which notes that a man is now dressed in khaki pants, rather than his previous "$2,000 custom-tailored English suits." In that novel by this author, Judge Kovitsky throws out a case being covered by the alcoholic journalist Peter Fallow. In this author's first novel, a man who styles himself as a "Master of the Universe" gets caught in a media frenzy after he and his mistress (*) Maria Ruskin get into a hit-and-run with the black Henry Lamb. This author, who used New York City as the setting for a novel about the trial of Sherman McCoy, wrote a book cataloguing the psychedelic-fueled adventures of Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters. For 10 points, name this pioneer of New Journalism who wrote The Bonfire of the Vanities and The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test.
Tom Wolfe [Thomas Kennerly Wolfe]
6

128787-)
In this novel, the protagonist's "weak good-by" to a lawyer at the end contrasts with the "Bring!" of an alarm clock at its start, which is discussed in the essay "Many Thousands Gone." A book titled for this novel recalls throwing a pitcher at a waitress in a segregated diner and lambasts this novel in the essay "Everybody's Protest Novel." In the (*) "Flight" section of this novel, a journalist finds a skeleton and an earring in a furnace, after which the protagonist flees with Bessie. The protagonist runs away from the police after murdering Mary Dalton in this novel, whose title James Baldwin borrowed for an essay collection. For 10 points, name this novel about the rage of the African-American Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright.
Native Son [accept Notes of a Native Son] 
6

128813-)
A poem about a landmark named for this location compares it to a "harp and altar, of fury fused" and wonders "(How could mere toil align thy coiling strings)" before asking it to "of the curveship lend a myth to God." A poem about a journey to this location tells it that "You furnish your parts toward the soul" and earlier remarks on "Crowds of men and women attired in their usual costumes!" Â A long poem anchored to a landmark named for this location launches into stories about (*) "Powhatan's Daughter" and "Ave Maria," which recounts Columbus' discovery of America. A poem about going to this location opens, "Flood-tide below me! I watch you face to face." This location's "Bridge" was considered by Hart Crane to be the poetic center of its city. For 10 points, Walt Whitman described "Crossing" a "Ferry" to what borough of New York?
Brooklyn [accept "To Brooklyn Bridge"; accept "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry," prompt on "The Bridge"; prompt on New York] Â 
6

128833-)
This author attempted to recruit Mark Twain for his project subtitled a "Novel by Twelve Authors" called The Whole Family. In a novel by this author, a socialist writer insults his millionaire sponsor in German, only to find out his sponsor also speaks German. In that novel by this author, Conrad Dryfoos is shot while trying to defuse a streetcar drivers strike. A character in a novel by this author wastes much of his newfound wealth supporting the schemes of Milton Rogers out of guilt. This author wrote about (*) Every Other Week magazine editor Basil March, as well as about Tom Corey, who gets into a love triangle between the daughters of a mineral paint manufacturer in one of this man's novels. For 10 points, name this "Dean of American Letters," a literary realist who wrote A Hazard of New Fortunes and The Rise of Silas Lapham.
Williams Dean Howells 
6

128851-)
This author wrote about the relationship between Redfern and Martha Hersland in The Making of Americans. Another of this author's works includes sections about "The Good Anna," "The Gentle Lena," and Melanctha Herbert, who decides to marry Dr. Jeff Campbell. Her prose poems such as "In Between" and "A Carafe, That is a Blind Glass" appear in her poetry collection inspired by Cubism, Tender Buttons. She wrote the libretti for Four Saints in Three Acts and The Mother of Us All, as well as the line "a rose is a rose is a rose is a rose." For 10 points, name this Modernist author of Three Lives and The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas. 
Gertrude Stein 
6

128869-)
Tush Hawg tries to get Nunkie to play a game of cards in this author's play Poker!, while more successful plays included From Sun to Sun and All de Live Long Day.Â  In a short story by this author, the protagonist is criticized by her husband Sykes for hypocritically working on the Sabbath until that wife, Delia Jones, "talks back".Â  Besides Sweat, this Eatonville native author is probably best known for a work that ends with a hurricane and the contracting of rabies by Teacake, the third husband of the protagonist, Janie Crawford.Â  For 10 points, identify this Harlem Renaissance author who wrote Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Zora Neale Hurston 
6

128886-)
One of his earliest works describes the misadventures of a purple knight riding a horse that looks vaguely like an armadillo. Minor characters in other works include the Learned English Dog, Webb Traverse and Teddy Bloat. His short stories include such works such as "Entropy" and "The Secret Integration," and are collected in Slow Learner. Better known works include one where Dr. Hilarious goes insane while Oedipa Maas searches for Trystero, and another labyrinthine work that describes Tyrone Slothrop's search across Europe for the V2 rocket 00000. For ten points, name this famously reclusive author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow. 
Thomas Ruggles Pynchon 
6

128900-)
This man collaborated with Donald Gallup on a play published in 1981, The Calms of Capricorn, and this man wrote a work entitled Chris Christofferson, which was later re-titled. In one of his plays, after the title character encounters the Formless Fears, he comes upon a Pullman porter who he'd earlier killed by a razor, Jeff, and later, he removes all of the outward trappings which distinguish him from the natives. In addition to The Great God Brown and The Emperor Jones, this man wrote a play in which the Mannon family's saga mirrors the Oresteia, and yet another in which Hickey Hickman persuades characters to temporarily abandon their pipe dreams in Harry Hope's bar. For ten points, identify this playwright of The Iceman Cometh and Mourning Becomes Electra.
Eugene O'Neill 
6

128924-)
This author fictionalized Sherwood Anderson as Dawson Fairchild in a novel set aboard the yacht Nausikaa in his second novel, Mosquitoes.Â  His novel Flags in the Dust introduced many characters from his later works, including Colonel Sartoris, the protagonist of his short story "Barn Burning" and a sympathizer of Mrs. Grierson's in his other short "A Rose for Emily." Both of these works, as well as a novel about the Bundrens' journey to bury their matriarch, take place his fictional Yoknapatawpha County. For 10 points, name this author of As I Lay Dying.
William Faulkner 
6

128934-)
The poet of this work wrote a letter to Chrystine Yates explaining that the use of the word "sigh" in the last stanza was not regretful; that line claims that the speaker will be "telling this with a sigh...ages and ages hence."Â  First published in its author's collection Mountain Interval, this poem's speaker describes how he "kept the first for another day," and how he "looked down one as far as I could To where it bent in the undergrowth." The first line of this poem describes paths that "diverged in a yellow wood." For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem where he makes a decision to take "the one less traveled by, And that has made all the difference."
"The Road Not Taken"
6

128964-)
The speaker of this poem wants to "Let be be finale of seem," and this work describes a dresser that is missing three glass knobs.Â  An object that the central figure of this poem once embroidered with fantails is now spread "as to cover her face," and her dumbness is proven by how her "horny feet protrude."Â  Beginning with an exaltation to "the muscular one" to "whip / in the kitchen cups concupiscent curds."Â  For 10 points, name this poem which begins "Call the roller of big cigars" about a ruler of a dairy item, by Wallace Stevens.
"The Emperor of Ice Cream"
6

128966-)
One character in this work chides his manager with "you are a shithead" after another character chews out that manager by claiming "a child" would know that "You never open your mouth until you know what the shot is."Â  A plot to defect to Jerry Graff is hatched by Dave Moss, who first attempts to recruit Aaronow but whose eventual accomplice is nicknamed "The Machine."Â  A gullible character named James Lingk is fast-talked into making a purchase by Ricky Roma, and in the end Shelly Levene is nabbed for robbing the sales leads.Â  For 10 points, name this drama about Chicago real estate agents, by David Mamet.
Glengarry Glen Ross
6

128989-)
In one poem, this author asked "Who is the East?/The Yellow Man/Who may be Purple if He can," while another poem by this author that is shockingly not about playing NAQT questions opens with the line "BEE! I'm expecting you." This poet notes that "Diadems drop and Doges surrender" in "Safe in their alabaster chambers," while in another work, she claims to be "inebriate of air" and "debauchee of dew" after tasting "a liquor never brewed." Other poems saw her note that "Hope is the thing with feathers" and also will "her keepsakes" away before hearing a fly buzz and dying. For 10 points, identify this introverted Amherst native, the narrator and author of "Because I could not stop for Death."
Emily Dickinson
6

128992-)
One character in this work preaches the "Salvation and five percent" doctrine and the protagonist helps that character in increasing Sunday school attendance. After giving a speech at the SAREB convention, the protagonist supports the conservative candidate Prout for mayor, but for a short while is affected by the liberal Seneca Doane. When Zilla is shot by her husband Paul Riedling, the protagonist changes his outlook and has an affair with Tanis Judique, but breaks up with her and joins the Good Citizen's League after his wife Myra recovers from illness. For 10 points, identify this novel about a real estate agent from Zenith, a work by Sinclair Lewis. 
Babbitt 
6

129010-)
One of this author's posthumously published stories describes the rendezvous between two characters who had previously met in Assumption, and in one of this author's novels, David Hosmer falls in love with Theresa Lafirme, who rejects the former's marriage proposal. In one of her more famous short stories, Mrs. Sommers unexpectedly finds fifteen dollars, with which she buys the titular apparel for herself, while another story sees Louise Mallard's happiness at the news of her husband's death. For 10 points, name this author of such works as "The Storm," At Fault, "A Pair of Silk Stockings", "The Story of an Hour" who also wrote about Edna Pontellier's boredom with New Orleans life in The Awakening.
Kate Chopin 
6

129012-)
Wallace Stevens described this figure "singing and chanting the things that are part of him" in the poem "Like Decorations in a Nigger Cemetery." In the poem "A Pact," Ezra Pound writes that this figure "broke the new wood [and]/Now is a time for carving." In a 1930 ode to him, another poet describes this earlier writer moaning "like a bird/with its sex pierced by a needle" and a group of young men chasing his "beard full of butterflies"; that is a Garcia-Lorca homage citing this writer's putative homosexuality.Â  This poet described a carpenter measuring out a plank in I Hear America Singing.Â  For 10 points, name this nineteenth-century poet whose "barbaric yawp" was sounded in works like "Crossing Brooklyn Ferry" and "Song of Myself." 
Walter Whitman 
6

129038-)
The title character leaves Solomon to live with Cash McCord in this author's story "Livie." In one story Leota complains to Mrs. Fletcher in her beauty salon that Mrs. Pike got a reward for discovering a rapist hiding as an exhibit in a freak show, and in another story Phoenix Jackson takes a strenuous journey to get medicine for her grandson. In addition to writing "The Petrified Man," in this author's most famous story one character claims her sister wants her grandfather to shave his beard after she moves home with her two-year-old daughter, Shirley-T. For 10 points, name this author of "The Worn Path," who wrote about Stella-Rondo in "Why I Live at the P. O."Â  
Eudora Welty 
6

129055-)
This man claimed that "It is dreams that have destroyed us" but eventually concludes that "dreams are not a bad thing" in his "Libertad! Igualdad! Fraternidad!", and he described the seasons changing "by the road to the contagious hospital" in the titular poem of his collection Spring and All. 1955's Journey to Love contained a long poem written to his wife Flossie, Asphodel, That Greeny Flower. He noted that "the plums that were in the icebox" were "delicious/so sweet/and so cold" in "This is Just to Say" and also wrote the five-book epic Paterson. For 10 points, "so much depends upon" you telling me which physician and poet wrote "The Red Wheelbarrow". 
William Carlos Williams 
6

129082-)
This playwright wrote a play detailing the selling of Victor and Walter Franz's dead parents' furniture to Gregory Solomon called The Price. This author's autobiography Timebends details his three marriages, the last of which is to Inge Morath, but he's more famous for a play about an event where Prince Von Berg gives up his white card to free Leduc from a Nazi interrogation camp, the title Incident at Vichy. He is more famous still for a play in which Steve Deever takes the blame for his partner's faulty cylinder heads, which leads to 21 pilots' deaths caused by Joe Keller, All My Sons. ForÂ 10 points, name this American playwright, best known for writing about John Proctor and Willy Loman in, respectively, The Crucible and Death of a Salesman. 
Arthur Miller
6

129085-)
This story's main character is shocked that he cannot recognize the constellations in the sky on his journey home, which culminates in this story's main character seeing a "blinding white light" and hearing "a stone sound like the shock of a cannon". A "grey-clad soldier" tricks the main character in this story to attempting to burn down a recently-repaired structure, but it was a trap which initiated the titular event. In the last line of this story main character's body "swung gently from side to side beneath the timbers", revealing that his escape from a Union patrol was imagined.Â Featuring main character Peyton Farquhar, for 10Â points, name this short story by Ambrose Bierce. 
An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge" 
6

129099-)
One character in this work complains that another chews her ice "like a cocker spaniel" and at the end, that character repeats "Kyrie eleison" after reporting that a telegram has come. Another character spends much her time on the bathroom tiles, while her husband "plows" another character. One anecdote told in this work relates the story of a friend who accidentally killed his father in a wreck when he swerved to avoid a porcupine. In the final act, at the climax of the game "bringing up baby," Honey and Nick learn that George and Martha do not have a son. For 10 points, name this play, whose titular question references the author of To the Lighthouse, by Edward Albee. 
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?Â  
6

129543-)
This fictional building has a "barely perceptible fissure" zig-zagging across its front. The narrator stares at this building's reflection in a "black and lurid tarn" to assuage his nervousness, but only grows more terrified. A resident of this building sings the  "The Haunted Palace" and is read to from Sir Launcelot Canning's "The Mad Trist." The narrator's story about Ethelred is interrupted by a sound seemingly coming from this building's vault. Madeline is entombed alive in this building's vault by her brother, Roderick. For 10 points, name this building that collapses at the end of an Edward Allan Poe short story about its "Fall." Â 
The House of Usher [or Roderick Usher's House; or "The Fall of the House of Usher"; accept equivalents to "house" like mansion]
6

129556-)
This novel's first sentence describes a town as "trying not to be blown away" during a winter storm. Two characters in this novel first kiss when the lights go out at a church carnival. This novel begins with the protagonist trying to coax her little brother's kitten down from the top of a telegraph pole. After being spotted embracing beneath a white mulberry tree, two characters in this novel are gunned down by a jealous husband. Crazy Ivar and Carl Linstrum are friends with this novel's protagonist, whose younger brother Emil is killed by Frank Shabata. Alexandra Bergson's family settles rural Nebraska in, for 10 points, what Willa Cather novel?
O Pioneers!
6

129584-)
This character argues that Frenchmen are not men because they do not speak English. He owns a supposedly magic hairball that he took from the stomach of an ox. Two characters dress him up as a "Sick Arab" to execute the "Royal Nonesuch" scam. This character is discovered by the protagonist when they are both hiding on Jackson Island. Two characters engage in an overblown rescue attempt to free this character from a shed on the Phelps' farm. At the end of the novel he appears in it is announced that Miss Watson has died, meaning that this character is free. For 10 points, name this escaped slave who travels down the Mississippi with Huck Finn. 
Jim
6

129611-)
This author described his most famous character as "a complete man and a common man" in an essay that begins with the line "fiction in any form has always intended to be realistic." In one of his novels, the protagonist finds a woman passed out naked in front of a camera in a house owned by Arthur Geiger. Another of his novels ends with the discovery that Terry Lennox has fled to Mexico and received plastic surgery. This author of "The Simple Art of Murder" wrote a novel that begins with General Sternwood asking the protagonist to take up a blackmail case. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about detective Philip Marlowe in The Long Goodbye and The Big Sleep.
Raymond Chandler
6

129625-)
The narrator of an Alan Seeger poem "has a rendezvous" with this character "at some disputed barricade". A poem addressed to this character describes this character as "slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men", and ends by telling this character "thou shalt die". Another poem about this character describes how "[we] passed the setting sun / Or rather, he passed us". That poem ends with the image of horses' heads pointed toward eternity, and describes a carriage ride past a school with children playing at recess. For 10 points, name this personification that "kindly stopped for" Emily Dickinson because she could not stop for it.
Death
6

129635-)
The narrator of this novel often describes the "voice of the sea." While dying, the protagonist of this novel remembers a cavalry officer's spurs clanging as he walked across her porch. The protagonist's lover leaves her a note reading "Good-bye - because I love you." It begins with a parrot screeching the phrase "allez-vous-en," and sees the protagonist get moved to tears by Mademoiselle Reisz's piano performance. This novel begins at a resort on Grand Isle, where the protagonist contemplates cheating on her husband with Robert Lebrun. After Lebrun abandons her, the protagonist of this novel commits suicide by walking into the sea. For 10 points, name this Kate Chopin novel about Edna Pontellier. 
The Awakening
6

129642-)
A character in this book believes that "everyone in the world is Christ and they are all crucified." Another character in this book writes his thoughts on pieces of paper and stuffs them into his pockets. Jesse Bentley takes his grandson David into the woods to perform an animal sacrifice in its chapter "Godliness." Characters in this book include Dr. Reefy and a schoolteacher who fled Pennsylvania after being accused of molesting a mentally disabled boy. Wing Biddlebaum, who appears in its chapter "Hands," is friends with this book's protagonist, an aspiring writer named George Willard. For 10 points, name this short story cycle about an Ohio town written by Sherwood Anderson. 
Winesburg, Ohio 
6

129659-)
A character in this short story tells a story about a watermelon carved with the initials "E.A.T.".  Later in this short story, that character reprimands a woman for trying to steal a child while at a filling station managed by Red Sammy Butts. One character in this story causes an accident when she remembers that she used to live in Tennessee, not Georgia. That accident in this short story occurs during a road trip that Bailey Boy and his family take to Florida. For 10 points, name this short story by Flannery O'Connor, which ends when the Grandmother is shot by the escaped criminal the Misfit.
"A Good Man is Hard to Find"
6

129680-)
The narrator of a novella by this author interrogates a ship's nervous captain, who is being shaved. That work by this author climaxes as a figurehead inscribed with the message "follow your leader" is revealed to display the skeleton of Alexandro Aranda. One of this author's characters gets imprisoned in the Tombs after he refuses to stop sleeping in his office. That character created by this author works with Nippers and Turkey, is said to have worked in the dead letter office, and responds to every question with the statement "I would prefer not to." For 10 points, name this author of Benito Cereno and "Bartleby, the Scrivener" who also wrote Moby Dick.
Herman Melville   
6

129686-)
One of the two title figures of a poem by this author asks "must my self dissect my tatter'd state, /  Which Amazed Christendom stands wondering at?" This author wondered "What gripes of wind my infancy did pain, / What tortures I in breeding teeth sustain?" in one of four "quaternion" poems. This author of "Dialogue Between Old England and New" described seeing "My pleasant things in ashes lie," in her poem "Verses Upon the Burning of Our House." The line "If ever two were one, then surely we" opens this poet's "To My Dear and Loving Husband." For 10 points, name this 17th century American poet of the collection The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung up in America.
Anne Bradstreet [or Anne Dudley]
6

129712-)
This poet described books as "altars where we kneel/ to consecrate the flicker, not the flame" in a poem dedicated to George Crabbe. Another of his poems mentions a location where "the vines cling crimson on the wall" and describes "the twilight wait for what will come." One of his characters "eyed a khaki suit with loathing," "loved the Medici," and is a "child of scorn." This poet, who advised "go to the western gate" in "Luke Havergal," wrote about "a gentleman from sole to crown" who "one calm summer night/ went home and put a bullet in his head." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Miniver Cheevy" and "Richard Cory."
Edwin Arlington Robinson
6

129732-)
A character in this short story collection remembers touching his date's knee during the climactic shootout of Bonnie and Clyde. The last story in this collection describes how the narrator's childhood girlfriend Linda died of a brain tumor.  In another story in this collection, the narrator begins crying while on a boat in the Rainy River.  Curt Lemon dies and Rat Kiley shoots a water buffalo in this collection's "How to Tell a True War Story".  Ted Lavender is killed while the commanding officer Jimmy Cross is thinking of his girlfriend in the title story of this collection.  For 10 points, name this memoir of the Vietnam War by Tim O'Brien, whose title objects include salt tablets, chewing gum, and M-16s.
The Things They Carried
6

129756-)
A character in one of this author's poems "came home with a smooth round stone / as small as a world and as large as alone". That poem ends with the line "its always ourselves we find in the sea". Another poem by this author ends "how do you like your blue-eyed boy / Mister Death". In another poem by this author of "maggie and millie and molly and may" and "[Buffalo Bill's]", "a yearning nation's blueeyed pride" is instructed by colonel trig westpointer to beat the title character, who was "more brave than me:more blond than you". For 10 points, name this poet of "i sing of olaf glad and big" who frequently used unconventional punctuation and capitalization.
Edward Estlin Cummings [or E.E. Cummings]
6

129770-)
This novel's final sentence describes the features of buildings as "each in its ordered place." A character in this novel obsesses over a broken watch that his father described as the "mausoleum of all hope and desire." A character in this novel remembers seeing mud on his sister's underwear when she climbed a tree to spy on their grandmother's funeral. The characters of this novel are served by a long-suffering maid named Dilsey. This novel's first section is narrated by a castrated mentally retarded man who associates the smell of rain with his sister Caddy. Jason, Quentin and Benjy narrate chapters of, for 10 points, what William Faulkner novel about the Compson family?
The Sound and the Fury
6

129792-)
This man claims "the capital-T Truth is about life before death" in a work that begins with a joke about two young fish swimming by an older fish. David Lipsky wrote about a road trip he took with this author in the book Although of Course You End Up Becoming Yourself. He gave a commencement address at Kenyon College that ends with the statement "this is water." A group of Quebecois "wheelchair assassins" appear in a novel by this author set during the Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment. In that novel by this author, Hal Incandenza attends the Enfield Tennis Academy. For 10 points, name this author of Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace
6

129806-)
This poem's final stanza is quoted at the end of Tracy Letts' play August: Osage County by Johanna. The stanzas of this poem's final sections end with quotations of the Lord's Prayer and the statement "life is very long." This poem includes a mock-nursery rhyme beginning "here we go round the prickly pear." The speaker reflects "the eyes are not here" while describing figures who "grope together and avoid speech." The title figures are described as "leaning together headpiece filled with straw." The statement "this is the way the world ends, not with a bang but with a whimper" concludes, for 10 points, what T.S. Eliot poem about a group of empty men?
"The Hollow Men"  
6

129814-)
After this character's death, two characters walk off to get a drink, prompting the question "now what the hell ya suppose is eatin' them two guys?" This character often expresses a desire to "live off the fatta the lan'." His manner of death is foreshadowed by the shooting of Candy's old, blind dog. He accidentally kills a puppy by breaking its neck while trying to stroke it. After he kills Curley's wife, this character is shot in the back of the head by his best friend while he imagines a rabbit farm. For 10 points, name this mentally disabled farm worker who is mercy-killed by his friend George at the end of John Steinbeck's Of Mice and Men.
Lennie Small [accept either underlined portion]
6

129846-)
The last lines of this book claim that there are "more and more endings... faster and faster until this book is having 186,000 endings per second." The possibly-titular character of this novel has a girlfriend who is the daughter of the "Freezer King of Sepulveda Boulevard," and a character in this novel named Johnston Wade, who walks around with a briefcase containing $100,000 is repeatedly called "Roy Earle" by the main character. Many chapters in this novel, which includes a description of a "Daring Cavalry Raid on PG&amp;E", are concluded with a flashback to the aftermath of a battle in which the title character was supposed to have taken part, and this novel itself is narrated by Jesse, who meets the main character while drinking on the Embarcadero in San Francisco. For 10 points, identify this novel by Richard Brautigan whose main character, Lee Mellon, claims descent from Augustus C. Mellon, the possibly-fiction titular Civil War-era military man.
A Confederate General from Big Sur
9

129856-)
One part of this poem addresses a vulture, and asks "When you come for the white rat that the foxes left/ Take off the red helmet of your head, the black Wings that have shadowed me, and step to me as man." This poem's narrator bemoans a "dull null Navy I wear to work, and wear from work, and so/ To bed, so to my grave," with no complaints from either the Deputy Chief assistant or his chief. Comparing herself to "beings trapped," in the title location, "as I am trapped," the narrator of this poem cries, "O bars of my own body, open, open!" and ends this poem asking the vulture, "You know what I was/ You see what I am: change me, change me!" Titling a 1960 collection of poems by its author, for 10 points, identify this poem whose female narrator sees "the saris go by me from the embassies," near the title locale, written by Randall Jarrell.
The Woman at the Washington Zoo
9

129871-)
This work's title character marries the grandniece of William Howard Taft, and loses his eye while serving in the Army Corps of Engineers, which leads to him being known as "the cyclops." A character in this novel is working on her own novel about working-class teenagers in a wealthy resort community, and publishes children's literature under the pen name "Polly Madison." In a potato barn, this novel's narrator keeps a 64-foot wide painting titled "Now It's the Women's Turn," which contains over 5,000   people and depicting where the narrator was "when the sun came up the day the Second World War ended in Europe." The narrator shows that painting to Circe Berman, who moves in with this novel's title character after the death of his second wife to research the aforementioned book on teenagers in the Hamptons, and the title of this book refers to the narrator's admonition to Circe to stay out of the barn. For 10 points, identify this novel by Kurt Vonnegut, an "autobiography" of the Abstract Expressionist painter Rabo Karabekian.
Bluebeard
9

129884-)
One work by this writer is an essay about a trip to a New York market and describes the intricacies of measuring out produce; that essay is titled "Giving Good Weight." Another of this writer's works is divided into sections titled "A Mountain," "An Island," and "A River," and describes the efforts of conservationist David Brower. That book is titled Encounters with the Archdruid. This writer first came to prominence with the publication of A Sense of Where You Are, his book-length study of Bill Bradley, the future Knicks player and senator, at the time when Bradley was playing basketball at Princeton, which this author also attended and where he currently lives. This writer is most famous for his travelogues and books about nature, such Coming into the Country about his travels in Alaska, and his geological history of North America, Annals of the Former World, which won him a Pulitzer. For 10 points, identify this American non-fiction writer.
John Angus McPhee
9

129903-)
In one work in this series, the newspaper editor Caroline Sanford travels to the title location at the behest of George Creel, who chairs the Committee for Public Information. Another work in this series consists of the memoirs of Charles Schuyler, who is himself the illegitimate son of the title character of this series' first work. The first of these novels to be written is the penultimate chronologically, and this series begins with a novel also narrated by Schuyler, who is hired by William Leggett to investigate whether Martin Van Buren is the title character's illegitimate son. Perhaps the best known novel in this series covers the last term of its title character before he is assassinated by John Wilkes Booth, and is       titled Lincoln. Including the novels Burr, Washington D.C., 1876, and the middle novel which sometimes gives this series its name, for 10 points, identify this heptalogy of historical novels written by Gore Vidal.
Narratives of Empire or American Chronicle
9

129911-)
One character in this novel goes to Cornell to study biology but never finishes his degree, eventually moving to California to become a therapist and falling in love with a woman named Katya whom he meets at a hunger strike. A pivotal moment in this novel comes when a main character is expelled from the Mt. Ephraim country club for throwing his beer into Judge Kirkland's face, and after that character's roofing company fails, this novel's title group is forced to sell High Point Farm. The revenge plot of this novel is concocted by Patrick, the middle son of Michael and Corrine, the parents of the title family. This novel is narrated by Judd, the youngest member of the title family, who helps Patrick acquire the gun with which Patrick plans to shoot Zachary Lundt for the rape of Judd's and Patrick's sister Marianne, but      instead Patrick rescues Lundt from drowning in a bog and lets him live. Ending with the title family's reunion after the death of Mike Sr., for 10 points, identify this novel by Joyce Carol Oates.
We Were the Mulvaneys
9

129933-)
One work in this collection is "A Study in Individualism" of a man named William Remington, whose "individual and personal program," was to "insist on being an active party in any transaction that might involve him." Another work in this collection argues that although "formerly, quantity had to give place to quality; today it is the reverse," in critiquing its title subject, "Education, Past and Present." In addition to those works by Henry Kline and John Gould Fletcher, this collection includes a critique of Francis Bacon as embodying the titular "Philosophy of Progress," written by Lyle Lanier, as well as an essay that quotes Booker T. Washington to argue for vocational education for blacks while endorsing segregation titled "The Briar Patch." The first essay in this collection acknowledges that "It is out of fashion in these days to look backward rather than forward," and argues that a certain region was "unique on this continent for having founded and defended a... European... culture," and is titled "Reconstructed but Unregenerate." Beginning with "A Statement of Principles" that sets itself against progressive industrialism, for 10 points, identify this collection that includes essays by John Crowe Ransom, Allen Tate, and Robert Penn Warren, the manifesto of the Southern Agrarians.
I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition
9

129964-)
One of these works tells the listener that if "ever the bridges of this town... be taken, and its battlements go down," and the listener "take ship unto some happier shore," the speaker will remain "to      beg from spectres by a broken arch." In another of these works, the author feels "a quiet pain/ For unremembered lads," and concludes "that summer sang in me/ A little while, that in me sings no more." One of these works concludes with the speaker's refusal "to sell your love for peace/ Or trade the memory of this night for food," and begins with the assertion that "Love is not all: it is not meat nordrink/ Nor slumber nor a roof against the rain." That work is contained in its author's collection titled Fatal Interview, while another of these works begins with the lines "Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare," and is found in the collection The Harp Weaver. For 10 points, identify these poems of 14 lines in iambic pentameter, found in collections such as A Few Figs from Thistles and Renascence.
sonnets of Edna St. Vincent Millay
9

129983-)
One work by this author consists of a series of interrogations conducted by the title character with men such as Leo, Irving, and Duffy. In another story, set in a bar run by Brother B., Railroad Shorty kills the bartender Fancy in a fight for making up dirty stories about Shorty and Venus. In addition to writing "The Face on the Barroom Floor," and "The Captain Has Bad Dreams," this author wrote of Luther's fatal attempt to rob the Jitney Jungle in the story "So Help Me." In another story by this author, the prayers of         the Orlov family appear to exorcise a ghost haunting their apartment, but with the perverse consequence of turning Roman Orlov into an alcoholic because he has no place to sleep. This author wrote about Captain Kozak's interrogation of "Lefty" Bicek concerning the robbery and murder of a drunk in a story which takes its title from the object Bicek claims he was out to get as his alibi. For 10 points, identify this author whose stories of Chicago, including "How the Devil Came Down Division Street," and "A Bottle of Milk for Mother," are contained in his collection The Neon Wilderness.
Nelson Algren
9

130001-)
In this novel, Mr. Hardesty is killed when he discovers the main character's true identity. The main character of this novel momentarily escapes death after his nephew drives the truck containing himself and that character off a bridge, but is eventually killed by Officer Figlow when Figlow discovers that the main character has stolen his gun. Mrs. Palazzo is another character killed in this novel by Nick Slater, whom the main character frees from prison. The main character keeps his nephew Luke and Luke's mother Millie tied up in his basement, and his psychosis stems from the murder of his sons by his father-in-law, Mr. Paxton, whom the main character of this novel strangles. This novel's main character is first arrested in Batavia, New York, for writing the word "love" on the street, and that main character conducts the title conversations with Batavia's police chief Fred Clumly. For 10 points, identify this novel about Taggart Hodge who goes by the titular moniker, a novel by John Gardner.
The Sunlight Dialogues
9

130006-)
The title girl of this book's chapter Zoya declares "you can't hang all 190 million of us" as she is executed for arson. Another of its characters is Kurt Gerstein, who kills himself after failing to sabotage shipments of Zyklon B. It opens with a description of a "squat black telephone," which it compares to an octopus. Its chapter "A Pianist from Kilgore" describes van Cliburn winning the Tchaikovsky prize. This book consists of eighteen paired stories, which are labelled "Pincer Movements" and which frequently concern the relationship between the filmmaker Roman Karmen, his wife Elena Konstantinovskaya, and thecomposer Dmitri Shostakovich. Its prologue, "Steel in Motion," describes a metaphorical telephone exchange system that links its vast array of characters across the 20th century in Germany and the Soviet Union. For 10 points, name this 2005 novel by William T. Vollmann.
Europe Central
9

130345-)
One group described in this work hires "a few palms in green tubs" and gathers to dance the "racquette" and "Portland Fancy" at parties, and they embroider daisies which they term "marguerites". When his daughter asks for a dog, one character in this work declares that he would rather choke himself to death than pay a servant to strangle it, in contrast to another family that paid 50 to 100 dollars for a St. Bernard. That character is the father of Fanny, Old Aleck. The protagonist verbally assaults Reverend Malloch Smith, which the reverend attributes to his mother's spoiling him, a fact ignored by the town automobile inventor, Eugene Morgan, who loves (*) Isabel. Falling between The Turmoil and The Midlander in the Growth trilogy, this work centers on George Minafer, the only heir of the Major's fortune in the title family. For 10 points, name this 1918 American work centering on three generations of the title aristocratic family, a novel by Booth Tarkington.
The Magnificent Ambersons
7

130357-)
In a novel by this author, a bandit named Little Harp keeps the talking, decapitated head of his brother Big Harp in a chest. One of this author's protagonists scrubs nailÂ­polish off a desk because it belongs to a woman whom she later almost hits with a breadboard. In a novel by this author, Rosamund marries a man who disguises his face with berry juice and tricks Mike Fink into thinking he's a ghost in the first scene. A character of this author (*) dies after his wife tries to get him to go to a carnival while he's recovering from detached retina surgery. In that novel by her, the funeral of Judge McKelva is attended by his wife, Fay, and daughter, Laurel. For 10 points, name this author of The Robber Bridegroom and The Optimist's Daughter, who also wrote short stories like "A Worn Path" and "Why I Live at the P.O."
Eudora Welty
7

130376-)
A poem by this author states "Then I was back in it. The War was on" after the speaker is disoriented by seeing "black naked women with necks wound roundÂ… with wire" in National Geographic. A poem by this author concludes "Somebody embroidered the doily. Somebody waters the plantÂ… Somebody loves us all" and opens "Oh, but it is dirty!" A poem by this author contains the parentheticals "the joking voice, a gesture I love" and (*) "Write it!" in its last stanza. This poet's time in Brazil with her lover Lota Soares inspired a poem about "illegal fire balloons" and a villanelle that repeats "The art of losing isn't hard to master." For 10 points, name this poet of "In the Waiting Room," "The Armadillo," and "One Art."
Elizabeth Bishop
7

130396-)
This character recalls replying "so what?" to a woman who told him "I'm the glamorous type! I'm the glamorous type!" The sound of a train allows this man to silently enter his home in time to hear another character denounce him in a speech ending "don't hang back with the brutes!" This character reveals that a woman is lying about a telegram from a Texas oil millionaire before criticizing her for (*) covering lights with paper lanterns. This character invokes the Napoleonic Code to claim he's been cheated by the sale of the Belle Reve ("reeve") estate. This man throws a radio out the window in the "Poker Night" scene. This resident of Elysian Fields bellows his wife's name after she takes refuge at Eunice's apartment. For 10 points, name this Polish husband of Stella who rapes Blanche Dubois in A Streetcar Named Desire.
Stanley  Kowalski  [accept either name]
7

130430-)
While spending the night in a barn in this state, a character talks to a friend who disguises his voice to reveal his sexual love for a pig named Portia. A laughing statue of "Fat May" appears in a story set in this state in which a family plays a game of "looking for the Towers" on a drive to the seashore. In a novel, three brothers born in this state make up for their hereditary micropenises by using the "Holy Eggplant" aphrodisiac. A professor suffering from "cosmopsis" goes to the Remobilization Farm in this state in The (*) End of the Road. "Lost in the Funhouse" is set in this state, as is a novel in which the syphilitic prostitute Joan Toast marries Ebenezer Cooke, the Poet Laureate of this state. For 10 points, name this state where John Barth set novels such as The SotÂ­Weed Factor in the Chesapeake bay region.
Maryland
7

130450-)
The speaker of this poem claims that "voices of the interminable generations of prisoners and slaves" speak through him after exclaiming "unscrew the locks from the doors!" This poem describes "Houses and roomsÂ… full of perfumes" before stating "The atmosphere is not a perfume." This poem describes a woman who "hides handsome and richly drest aft the blinds of the window" while imagining (*) joining "twentyÂ­eight young men" she sees bathing. This poem's speaker answers "the beautiful uncut hair of graves" to a child's question of "What is grass?" Its last section states "I sound my barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world." For 10 points, name this poem that begins "I celebrate myself and sing myself," a long poem from Leaves of Grass by Walt Whitman.
"Song of Myself"
7

130467-)
This poem repetitively references "my Taroc pack and my Taroc pack" in a stanza that claims that the "snows of the Tyrol, the clear beer of Vienna / Are not very pure or true." This poem notes that "The black telephone's off at the root / The voices just can't worm through." After describing "waters off beautiful Nauset," it shifts to a "Polish town scraped flat by the roller of wars, wars, wars." This poem recalls its author's (*) "Colossus" with an image of a "Ghastly statue with one gray toe / Big as a Frisco seal." "There's a stake in [fat] black heart" of this poem's subject, who is told "you bastard, I'm through." For 10 points, name this poem addressed to a "man in black with a Meinkampf look" who may be the father of its author, Sylvia Plath. 
"Daddy"
7

130493-)
In this novel, a French tutor whom the protagonist fails to recognize on a trip to Boston is revealed to be the secretary who had earlier helped a female character. A scene from The Shaughraun in which a man silently kisses his lover's ribbon occurs to the protagonist of this novel when he sees a woman on a pier but does not greet her. In this novel, the van der Luydens are offended that a woman visits the house of Lucius Beaufort after he is caught in a banking scandal. In this novel's (*) last chapter, the protagonist is with his son Dallas in Paris twentyÂ­six years later and watches the light in his love interest's room without going inside. The protagonist of this novel marries May Welland but loves Countess Ellen Olenska. For 10 points, name this novel about Newland Archer by Edith Wharton.
The Age of Innocence
7

130496-)
In one of this novel's final scenes, a man responds "up yours, Jack" to a heckler while hanging upside down from a crane. A character in this novel shows an industrialist a mummy that resembles him in order to get him to join the Pyramid Club, of which they are the only members. In this novel, a woman called the "firstsex goddess" provides help to a poor silhouette artist and his daughter. That artist later becomes a filmmaker called Baron Ashkenazi. In this novel, some (*) racist firemen destroy a Model T, prompting its owner to attackJ. P. Morgan's library. Coalhouse Walker is assisted by Mother's Younger Brother in this novel, which also features historical characters like Harry Houdini. For 10 points, name this novel by E. L. Doctorow titled for a musical genre. 
Ragtime
7

130586-)
A poem claims that this place contains flavors from "Glow of the quince to blush of the rose. Persimmon bronze to cinnamon toes." A dancer in this place with a "falselyÂ­smiling face" is watched by "Applauding youthsÂ… with young prostitutes." In a poem set in this area, the speaker explains "I like a pipe for a Christmas present, or recordsÂ—Bessie, bop, or Bach" to a man who is "olderÂ… and somewhat more (*) free" after being told "Go home and write a page tonight." In this area, a man sleeps "like a rock or man that's dead" after crooning at the piano all night. A poem titled for this place concludes "Maybe it just sags like a heavy load. Or does it explode?" For 10 points, name this area which titles a poem that asks "what happens to a dream deferred?" as well as a "Renaissance" that its author, Langston Hughes, was part of.
Harlem [prompt on "Manhattan" or "New York"]
7

130660-)
In this play's first act, a man repeatedly cuts off his wife with phrases like "don't interrupt," "will you stop that," and "will you let me talk?" A character in this play orders champagne for a woman at the next table and introduces another character as "the quarterback for the New York Giants" while at a restaurant. A character in this play writes "University of Virginia" on a pair of sneakers, but burns them after he (*) sees his father give a pair of stockings to The Woman in a Boston hotel room. In this play's last act, the protagonist plants seeds while fantasizing about Ben, his brother who got rich in Africa. This play ends with the funeral of the title character, who crashed his car to collect life insurance money for his family. For 10 points, name this play that features Biff and Happy and is titled for the demise of Willy Loman, a work by Arthur Miller.
Death of a Salesman
7

130671-)
. In a story by this author, the title character causes a prison warden to eat a doorknob and his parents to think that they are battling broncos. In a story by this author, the protagonist is shocked to find that he lives in "so wild a region" when he sees no roads for an entire day. The narrator of a story by this author of "The Hypnotist" is haunted by the phrase "Consciousness is the creature of Rhythm" and watches a fez-wearing creature strangle his friend after losing a (*) game of chess. In a story by this author, the protagonist is tricked by a disguised scout, who tells him about some burnable driftwood. The protagonist of that story jumps into a river to avoid gunshots, but feels a "stunning blow upon" his neck just as he goes to embrace his wife. For 10 points, name this author of "Moxon's Master" who wrote about Peyton Farquhar in "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge."
Ambrose Bierce
7

130674-)
In Tom Wolfe's The Bonfire of the Vanities, the poet Aubrey Buffing compares this story's meaning to AIDS. This story references Victor Hugo's play Hernani to describe the "piquancy and phantasm" of a certain event. One figure in this story is said to have "out-Heroded Herod" and is asked "who dares insult us with this blasphemous mockery?" by a person who draws a dagger at him. The hourly (*) chiming of a "gigantic clock of ebony" in this story makes everyone stop dancing in an array of colorful rooms. The title character of this story, which holds "illimitable dominion over all," is revealed to be an intangible form that strikes Prince Prospero dead on sight. For 10 points, name this short story about the visit of the title plague to a ball, written by Edgar Allen Poe.
"The Masque of the Red Death"
7

130693-)
This poem describes a person that "put out her hand / Among the harp-like morning-glory strings, / Taut with the dew from the garden bed to eaves." That character in this poem relates how she knows "just how it feels / To think of the right thing to say too late." This poem mentions a boy who is now "teaching in his college" and "studied Latin like the violin," named (*) Harold Wilson. This poem provides "something you somehow don't have to deserve" and "a place where, when you have to go there, They have to take you in" as definitions of "home." In this poem, Mary tries to convince her husband to give the title character his job as a haymaker back. For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem that ends with Warren finding the corpse of his ex-employee Silas, the title character.
"The Death of the Hired Man"
7

130727-)
This poet asked "Where I shall find / No need for scholarly nonchalance or looks" in a poem spoken by a "princess of properness." This poet claimed "No man can give me any word but Wait" in "My dreams, my works, must wait till after hell." In a poem by this author, the speaker wishes to "wear the brave stockings of night-black lace / And strut down the streets with paint on my face." This poet of "Song of the Front Yard" asked "Though why should I whine, / Whine that the crime was other than mine?" in a poem that begins (*) "Abortions will not let you forget." In a poem by this author, "Dinner is a casual affair" for "Two who are Mostly Good." This poet of "The Mother" penned the lines "We / Jazz June. We / Die soon" in a short poem about poolplayers. For 10 points, name this poet of "The Bean Eaters" and "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Brooks
7

130747-)
A character in this novel cries over an organ grinder's monkey and attempts to jump into a passing political procession while sitting on a balcony. While in a trance, a character in this novel talks to three spirits, including one carrying a carpenter's rule; that character, Alice, dies after running in the snow while still hypnotized. A now-useless (*) deed of land is discovered behind a portrait near the end of this novel. In this novel, a man is found dead in his oak chair with blood on his ruff after being cursed by Matthew Maule. In this novel, Phoebe falls in love with Holgrave after Clifford is freed from prison for the murder of his uncle Jaffrey Pyncheon. For 10 points, name this novel about the title New England estate by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The House of the Seven Gables
7

130759-)
In this novel, a painter tells the protagonist that he attended a school for "grotesque children," where the principal started each day by declaring he was "sick and tired." A couple in this novel consists of a bicycle manufacturer who loves the insult "pissant" and a woman who is proud of being an "Indiana Hoosier." In this novel's setting, all crimes are punished with impalement on "the hook." A holy (*) book in this novel describes teams called "karass" and a feet-touching ritual in some of its many "calypso" poems. The narrator of this novel encounters the religion Bokononism on the island of San Lorenzo, which he travels to while researching a book on Felix Honecker, the inventor of "ice-nine." For 10 points, name this novel by Kurt Vonnegut named for a string game.
Cat's Cradle
7

130763-)
One poem claims "And so we move as far as Enemies" away from these places after explaining why "We do not play" on them. In another poem, two people who converse in these places agree "we brethren are" and talk between the rooms "as kinsmen met a night." A poem titled in reference to these places describes how, outside of them, "Diadems drop and Doges surrender Â– Soundless as dots on a Disc of Snow"; that poem calls these places "alabaster (*) chambers." On a journey to one of these places, the speaker passes "a School, where Children strove At Recess." One of these places is "a House that seemed a Swelling of the Ground" in a poem describing a ride to one with a figure who "knew no haste." For 10 points, the speaker of Emily Dickinson's "Because I could not stop for Death" is taken to what type of place?
graves [or tombs; or graveyards; or alabaster chambers before "alabaster" is read; or equivalents such as coffins, crypts, or cemeteries; prompt on chambers or houses; prompt on afterlifes or similar answers]
7

130790-)
"Sing we love and idleness / Naught else is worth having" opens a work by this poet that also describes "high deeds in Hungary." Images in a poem by this poet include the "Sleek head, daughter of Lir, / eyes of Picasso," and that poem opens with the command "Hang it all, Robert Browning!" This poet described "Limbs that we left in the house of Circe" in a poem that begins with the line "And (*) then went down to the ship." The title character of a poem by this poet "walked eye-deep in hell" and "strove to resuscitate the dead art / of poetry." A short poem by this author describes "The apparition of these faces in the crowd; / Petals on a wet, black bough." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Hugh Selwyn Mauberley," "In a Station of the Metro," and The Cantos.
Ezra Weston Loomis Pound
7

130793-)
A story by this author follows a woman who teaches English to Indian children and is forced to listen to a fat man sing and play guitar every night. In that story by this author, the protagonist has a dream where she is fed flowers by a man with fleshless hands who accuses her of being a murderer and a cannibal. This author created a character who is pursued by the bounty hunter Homer T.Â Hatch and works on Royal Earle Thompson's (*) dairy farm. In a story by this author, a drama critic survives the Spanish Flu, which kills her love interest Adam Barclay. Freytag, a German man with a Jewish wife, embarks on a voyage to Spain on the Vera in an allegory of fascism by this author, who wrote several novellas about Miranda Gay. For 10 points, name this author of "Flowering Judas," "Noon Wine," "Pale Horse, Pale Rider," and Ship of Fools.
Katherine Anne Porter
7

130825-)
A spy manages the extra actors for a movie about this war directed by the Auteur in a 2015 novel. During this war, a character who had earlier fainted out of fear during a dentist's visit gets blown into a tree while playing catch. The winner of the 2016 Pulitzer in Fiction, The Sympathizer, is set after this war, and Skip Sands fights in this war in Denis Johnson's Tree of Smoke. During this war, Mary Ann begins (*) wearing a necklace of human tongues after falling in with the Greenies on a visit to her boyfriend. "How to Tell a True War Story" appears in a book set during this war, in which Kiowa drowns in mud and Lieutenant Cross blames himself for Lavender's death. For 10 points, Tim O'Brien's The Things They Carried follows a platoon in the jungles of what war?
Vietnam War
7

130850-)
The protagonist of this novel repeatedly tries to perform the card trick "Fly-away Jack," but cannot find a pack of cards until the antagonist gives him one. While trying to visit a child who offered to teach him Morse code, a character in this novel finds her house abandoned and inhabited only by a starving dog. While staying with a German couple, this novel's main character allows himself to be tricked into traveling to see a dying American bank robber. Stories about the boy (*) martyr Juan are interspersed in this novel, whose last chapter reintroduces characters like the Fellows family and the dentist Mr. Tench. This novel's protagonist is executed after being betrayed by the mestizo to the Lieutenant. For 10 points, name this novel in which an alcoholic priest is pursued by anti-Catholic authorities in Mexico, a work of Graham Greene.
The Power and the Glory
7

130862-)
In one novel, some characters who engage in this activity, including a boy nicknamed "Nickname," are fed "Jewish Wheaties" by a teenage nuclear physicist. In that novel about this activity, "Word" Smith tells of the killing of Roland Agni after he discovers the secret of Gil Gamesh. Henry Skrimshander loses his passion for this activity after accidentally injuring Owen Donne in a 2011 novel by Chad Harbach. In Don (*) DeLillo's Underworld, an object used in this activity is bought from Cotter Martin's father. Philip Roth's The Great American Novel is about this activity, which the protagonist of one novel quits after being shot with a silver bullet by Harriet Bird. Holden Caulfield's brother Allie writes poems in green ink on an object used in this sport. For 10 points, Roy Hobbs, the protagonist of The Natural, plays what sport using "Wonderboy," his bat?
baseball [prompt on sports until read; anti-prompt on answers like fielding, catching, batting, or pitching]
7

130881-)
In this play, a woman recalls how her husband stopped playing piano with her because waiting for the next note made him nervous. A servant in this play has the habit of always wiping his hands after he lies. A character in this play relates how she got the hiccups during her first party at her family's estate, Lionnet. In this play Joe Horns is initially blamed for opening a safe-deposit box that contains a baby shoe and a piece of a violin. After returning from (*) Baltimore, a man in this play promises to leave 17 hundred-dollar bills to his servant Addie. Alexandra's father dies in this play while trying to get his medicine from upstairs. In this play, Leo steals Union Pacific bonds from Regina Giddens's husband Horace after he refuses to invest in a cotton mill. For 10 points, name this play about the schemes of the Hubbard family by Lillian Hellman.
The Little Foxes
7

130893-)
A character in this play once had to sit through a coronation ceremony after the Chamber of Commerce named her "Queen of Neewollah." In a scene of this play in which a sunset lights the stage through a doorway, a girl who hangs Picasso paintings over her bed sketches the portrait of a character who wears cowboy boots. A character in this play tells a newspaper boy to "go blow your nose" after he flirts with her sister, and later throws up after getting drunk on a man's whisky. That man, (*) Howard, is forced into marrying the schoolteacher Rosemary Sydney in this play. This play ends with Madge Owens running after the train on which Hal Carter escaped from police. For 10 points, name this play that takes place on Labor Day in a midwestern town set around the title event by William Inge.
Picnic
7

130897-)
A poem written in this state addresses a "venom Elf" whose "whorle pins do not clasp" a wasp for fear "he should fling / His sting." A poet from this state wrote a poem addressed to a "rambling brat" who was "snatchedÂ… by friends, less wise than true." Opening lines from poems written in this state include "Make me, O Lord, thy Spinning Wheel complete," and (*) "Thou ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain." This modern-day state was home to the author of "Huswifery," Edward Taylor, as well as to a poet who wrote "I prize thy love more than whole mines of gold" and "if ever two were one, then surely we" in the poem "To My Dear and Loving Husband." For 10 points, name this modern-day state where The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America was written by Anne Bradstreet.
Massachusetts
7

130922-)
One character in this novel jokes that the romance novel Tears, Idle Tears would be better titled as Slop, Silly Slop. Another character in this novel is mistaken for an Italian journalist by Walker, who suspects that the protagonist's typist is his mistress. During the Civil War, Jim Millon takes a bullet for the protagonist of this novel, who in return employs Millon's daughter Zerrilla Dewey. In this novel, Minister Sewell tells (*) Persis that her daughter is too romantic. After he forgets to put out a fireplace, this novel's protagonist's dream home on Beacon Street burns down. In this novel, the protagonist's elder daughter Penelope discovers that she is the love of Tom Corey. For 10 points, name this realist novel about the titular paint mogul, written by William Dean Howells.
The Rise of Silas Lapham ("LAP-um")
7

130951-)
In a novel by an author of this given name, the protagonist does not speak to his colleague Lomax for 20 years after savagely interrogating a blowhard student with a crippled arm during his thesis defense. In a novel by an author of this given name, the title character fights with a man who makes him sing about the hardness of walls. An author of this given name represented himself as a Genie in a three-part novel that integrates the stories of Dunyazad, Perseus, and Bellerophon, (*) Chimera. In a novel by an author of this given name, the protagonist decides not to kill Wealthow, listens to "the Shaper" outside the doors of Hart, and dies after his arm is torn off by Beowulf. A novel by an author of this given name features Henry Burlingame, whose student Ebenezer Cook writes the title poem, The Sot-Weed Factor. For 10 points, identify the given name of authors Williams, Gardner, and Barth.
John [accept John Williams, John Barth, or John Gardner] (The first novel is Stoner.)
7

130953-)
A person who works at one of these locations takes German lessons from a former chiropractor named Howard Dunlop. The title character of Vladimir Nabokov's novel Pnin works at one these places, as does the protagonist of Don DeLillo's novel White Noise. A fictional one of these locations called DuPont provides the setting of Tom Wolfe's novel I Am Charlotte Simmons. The Colonial-era writers Joel Barlow, John Trumbull, and Timothy Dwight took the name "Connecticut Wits" at one of these places, of which Dwight was later president. FTP what are these locations, another example of which is depicted in F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel This Side of Paradise, which follows Amory Blaine's time at Princeton?
college or university
6

130981-)
A novel set primarily in this city includes the line "Either horn of the dilemma gores us." Another novel set in this city sees Basil Ransom elope with Verena Tarrant, the protÃ©gÃ© of the feminist Olive Chancellor. A poem set in this city depicts Augustus Saint Gaudens' "shaking Civil War relief" of an African-American regiment here, near where its aquarium has been torn down, and the speaker describes steam shovels behind a fence on this city's famous "common." FTP Robert Lowell's poem "For the Union Dead" is set in what city, in which Arthur Dimmesdale fathers an out-of-wedlock child with Hester Prynne in The Scarlet Letter?
Boston
6

131005-)
This author apostrophized the title subject as the "true daughter of old Time" in one sonnet, while in another poem he coined the phrase "the glory that was Greece/And the grandeur that was Rome." This author averred that the hero of the tragedy called "Man" is the titular "conqueror worm" in another poem, while he rhymed the title female's three-syllable name with the word "tomb" in a poem set in the "ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir" in another. FTP, name this author of "Sonnet--to Science," "To Helen," and"Ulalume," [OO-la-loom] who is best known for a poem in which a "bust of Pallas" provides a perch for the title bird who likes to repeat the word "Nevermore!"
Edgar Allan Poe
6

131031-)
One collection of Wallace Stevens's essays is titled for the "necessary" one of these beings. Â In "A Supermarket in California, Allen Ginsberg imagines Walt Whitman asking a grocery boy, "Are you my [one of these beings]? One novel partly titled for one of these beings depicts the childhood of Eugene Gant in the fictional town of Altamont and was written by Thomas Wolfe; the title of that work tells this type of being to "Look Homeward." FTP, a 1993 Tony Kushner play subtitled "A Gay Fantasia on National Themes" is titled for what type of celestial being "in America"?
angels
6

131083-)
One short story by this author sees a semi-wild dog called Lion die while attacking the title creature, the name of which is Old Ben. In another story by this author, Abner purposely wipes manure on an expensive rug in Major de Spain's mansion; that story ends with Abner's arson of the major's barn. The title character of another story by this author refuses to acknowledge the death of Colonel Sartoris many years after poisoning Homer Barron and keeping his corpse in a bed in her home. FTP what Southern Gothic author wrote the short stories "The Bear," "Barn Burning," and "A Rose for Emily."
William "Gopher Bill" Faulkner
6

131085-)
This poet began one work with the line, "The pure products of America/go crazy." This poet of "To Elsie " described the "gong clangs" and "siren howls" of a vehicle in another poem, noting the image of "the figure five/in gold" on that fire truck in a poem that inspired a painting by Charles Demuth. This author of a long poem about his New Jersey hometown of Paterson also noted how much "depends" on a certain farm implement "glazed with rain/water." FTP name this author of the collection "Spring and All" which includes his very short poem "The Red Wheelbarrow."
William Carlos Williams
6

131117-)
This poet wrote of "a singer everyone has heard" in "The Oven Bird." Another of his poem's speakers notes his desire to "unite/[his] avocation and [his] vocation/As two eyes make one in sight" after refusing an offer by hoboes to chop wood for him. This author of "Two Tramps in Mud Time" began one poem "The land was ours before we were the land's"; he read that poem from memory at JFK's inauguration. FTP name this author of "The Gift Outright" who wrote of a path that "diverged in a yellow wood" in "The Road Not Taken."
Robert Frost
6

131134-)
In one poem by this author, Thorberg Skafting builds a ship called The Long Serpent for the titular Norwegian king. This author included the narrative poem "The Saga of King Olaf" in a collection patterned after Dante entitled Tales of a Wayside Inn. That collection includes a poem by this author that describes an event from "the eighteenth of April, in Seventy-Five" in which the title figure asks for a signal of "[o]ne, if by land, two, if by sea." This author of "Paul Revere's Ride" used the meter of The Kalevala for another narrative poem set "by the shores of Gitchee-Goomee." FTP name this 19th-century American author of "The Song of Hiawatha" and "The Village Blacksmith."
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
6

131152-)
Despite its title, this state is actually the setting of novel that fictionalizes the Johnson County War and includes the line "When you call me that, smile!" Annie Proulx's [proo's] collection Close Range is subtitled for this state, in which she sets the short story "Brokeback Mountain." The title character of Owen Wister's novel The Virginian shoots his enemy Trampas in this state's town of Medicine Bow. In Kerouac's On the Road, Sal Paradise spends a night at the Wild West Days celebration in this state. FTP what is this western state provides the setting for a play featuring performances of interviews and other stories about the murder of Matthew Shepard, The Laramie Project?
Wyoming
6

131175-)
This literary genre is presented in fractured form in the William S. Burroughs novel The Place of Dead Roads. After the novel Suttree, Cormac McCarthy moved to a series of works featuring the hallmarks of this genre, starting with Blood Meridian. A series of 17 novels about Jubal Sackett was written by a master of this genre, Louis L'Amour. A famous work in this genre depicts Jane Withersteen's escape from a forced Mormon polygamous marriage with the help of Lassiter. FTP Riders of the Purple Sage by Zane Grey is an example of what American genre which often features gunfights and cowboys?
Western (prompt on "cowboy novel" or "oater" if respondent over 80 years old)
6

131184-)
work with this title contains the idea of "imaginary gardens with real toads in them." In a work entitled "Introduction to" this art form, some people want to tie a certain object to a chair and "torture a confession out of it." Harriet Monroe founded a magazine with this title, and Wallace Stevens referred to it as "the supreme fiction." A work by Marianne Moore with this title begins "I, too, dislike it." Types of it include ghazals, tankas, and villanelles. For 10 points, name this type of literary work that has a metrical form and is often contrasted with prose.
poetry [be generous and accept word forms, such as poems; or poetical works]
6

131189-)
The Corpse Exhibition is a collection of short stories set during and after this military conflict. Brian Turner's poetry collection Here, Bullet describes experiences he had fighting in this war. Veterans of this conflict are taken to do PR at the Thanksgiving Day Dallas Cowboys' game in the novel Billy Lynn's Long Halftime Walk. Matt Gallagher's book Kaboom: Embracing the Suck in a Savage Little War elaborates on his blog posts during his service in this war. FTP, George Packer's book Assassins' Gate details America's involvement in what early 2000's conflict?
Iraq War
6

131198-)
This writer exhorted, "Hear what the earth says:--" at the end of a poem that begins with the list of names "Bulkeley, Hunt, Willard, Hosmer, Meriam, Flint"; that poem's title "Hamatreya" illustrates this author's interest in Hindu scripture. Another poem by this author praises the "embattled farmers" who stood "[b]y the rude bridge that arched the flood/ . . . And fired the shot heard 'round the world." He described himself as a "transparent eyeball" in his essay "Nature." FTP name this landlord and friend of Henry David Thoreau who led the New England Transcendentalist writers.
Ralph Waldo Emerson
6

131218-)
In a sexually charged scene from a novel titled for this place, the protagonist tries on bathing suits with the help of her work supervisor Miss Fortini, who comments on her unshaved pubic hair. In a novel set in this area, a woman shoots a serial rapist who ambushes her daughter in the stairwell of their home, but her third pregnancy drives her husband Johnny to drink until he dies of pneumonia on Christmas. The parish priest Father Flood encourages Eilis Lacey to emigrate from Ireland to this area in search of a better life, in a 2009 novel by (*) Colm TÃ³ibÃ­n. A character who works as a teletypist in this area falls in love with Lee Rhynor, a married soldier about to ship out to France. After reflecting on her brother Neeley's prowess as a jazz pianist, the protagonist of that novel set here watches the title object sprout in the yard of her tenement building, a symbol of her family's resilience. For 10 points, Francie Nolan is the protagonist of a Betty Smith novel titled for a tree that "grows in" what New York City borough?
Brooklyn [accept Williamsburg, where A Tree Grows in Brooklyn is specifically set; prompt on New York City] 
9

131220-)
A character in this play declaims that if everybody "stay in one place I believe this would be a better world," an insight he gained from twenty-seven years working aboard trains. A dream in which he volunteers to lead a flock of sheep-men across a wolf-filled valley compels a preacher in this play to found the Good Shepherd Church. At the end of this play's first act, a fight breaks out about a botched timber-raid in which (*) Crawley had died. In this play, after four men are burned to death in a boxcar, their spirits, known as the Ghosts of the Yellow Dog, retaliate by throwing their killer down a well. Lymon and Boy Willie are unable to haul off the central object of this play before Berniece is forced to play it to calm Sutter's ghost. For 10 points, name this play set in 1930s Pittsburgh, about a black family's musical heirloom, by August Wilson.
The Piano Lesson 
9

131239-)
This book's narrator realizes that his story had essentially already been told in Hermann Hesse's Journey to the East. A character in this book constantly tosses his sledgehammer and catches it behind his back. Whenever they need questions answered, the main characters of this book throw three I Ching coins thrice each. Several characters in this book slather an object with Day-Glo paint and give it the misspelled name (*) "Furthur." Participants aim to attain "intersubjectivity" at this book's title series of events, the last of which happens at a "graduation" through which a man tries to clear his name after being arrested for marijuana possession. The main characters of this book fail to meet with Timothy Leary after journeying for days on their school bus. For 10 points, name this book in which the Merry Pranksters, led by Ken Kesey, use copious amounts of LSD, a chronicle by Tom Wolfe.
The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test 
9

131256-)
The protagonist of this story tells a woman that he'd pay a fortune to live where the sun balances itself on the peak of a small mountain every evening. Protesting a premarital blood test, the protagonist of this story states that even if they were to "take my heart and cut it out" then "they wouldn't know a thing about me." At its end, the protagonist prays to God to "Break forth and wash the slime from this earth!" just after his boast that he has the best mother in the world provokes his (*) passenger to retort: "My old woman is a flea bag and yours is a stinking pole cat!" before jumping out of his car. The protagonist of this story teaches the word "bird"' to a deaf girl that he marries and abandons at a diner hours later. The title phrase of this story follows the warning "Drive carefully" on a highway road sign. For 10 points, name this story in which the one-armed drifter Tom Shiftlet shows up at the doorstep of Lucynell, by Flannery O'Connor.
"The Life You Save May Be Your Own" 
9

131261-)
Hours before his death, a character in this novel begs the protagonist: "tell them im strong tell them im a man." The protagonist of this novel alone remains depressed during a rousing rendition of "Twas the Night Before Christmas." After the protagonist of this novel encourages a character to record his thoughts in a notebook, the resulting diary entry forms the ante-penultimate chapter. The protagonist of this novel alienates Reverend Ambrose with his atheism and his married lover (*) Vivian with his selfishness. A character in this novel repeatedly demands "corn for a hog," having deeply internalized his attorney's argument that he would sooner put a hog in an electric chair than his client; the protagonist's Aunt Mamie implores him to turn the prisoner back into a man. For 10 points, name this novel in which educated black schoolteacher Grant Wiggins struggles to educate the innocent death row inmate Jefferson, by Ernest Gaines.
A Lesson Before Dying 
9

131268-)
Two lovers in this novel hold up bricks, as if about to beat one another, in a tense moment that unfolds as they remodel the title location. This novel ends with the protagonist ripping up a blue envelope bearing information about his lover's execution, and the wind blowing the pieces back at him. In revenge for being framed for theft and subsequently fired, a character in this novel strangles his ex-employer with the sash of his dressing gown. A woman in this novel travels to (*) Spain to mull over her boyfriend's marriage proposal. The protagonist of this novel depends on the financial generosity of the businessman Jacques, and begins a relationship with a bartender working for Guillaume. In this novel, the protagonist's girlfriend Hella leaves him upon discovering his bisexuality. For 10 points, name this novel in which the American expatriate David has an affair with an Italian man in Paris, by James Baldwin.
Giovanni's Room 
9

131387-)
One of this author's protagonists observes the "diverging equity" between the "world's pain and its beauty," such that "the blood of multitudes might ultimately be exacted for the vision of a single flower." In a later book by this author, that character falls in love with an epileptic prostitute working at The White Lake, whose owner kills him in a knife fight. The protagonist cries after failing to call back a badly injured dog he had shooed away at the end of a novel by this author, which begins with him returning a wolf to its home in the mountains. The protagonist uses a heated pistol barrel to (*) cauterize a gunshot wound incurred from his prison escape in a novel by this author that opens at his grandfather's funeral. This author's books Cities of the Plain and The Crossing form the "border" trilogy with his novel in which the Mexican ranch owner's daughter Alejandra has an affair with the cowboy John Grady Cole. For 10 points, name this American author of violent westerns such as All the Pretty Horses and Blood Meridian.
Cormac McCarthy 
9

131416-)
A foreign-language song stating that when this substance "furnishes my stomach / I am more learned than Balzac," serves as the epigraph to a story in which the Devil lists every philosopher whose soul he has eaten, while sharing this substance with a metaphysician-chef named Bon-Bon. When a container full of this substance is thrown in Trippetta's face, the title character of the story "Hop-Frog" responds by gritting his teeth. A character is fed this substance to protect him from the dampness of a place whose nitre-lined walls make him cough. When that character tosses a container of this substance as a sign that he is a (*) Mason, the narrator pulls out a trowel to signal his own membership. A character dressed in a jester's cap with bells, who has consumed a lot of this substance, is buried alive in a catacomb by a man whom he has caused "a thousand injuries." For 10 points, name this substance with which Montresor lures Fortunato to his death in Poe's "A Cask of Amontillado."
wine [or sherry; accept varieties, such as Medoc or Amontillado before mentioned; prompt on alcohol] 
9

131429-)
One of this author's characters accidentally swallows the transistors for a hearing aid when she goes to take her pills. In another of his plays, an engaged Mormon kills himself by leaping from his apartment window after having sex with a man who had treated him to an evening at the Reading Room followed by a carriage ride in Central Park. In a play by this author, the actress Corrinna Stroller and two nuns are killed by a gift-wrapped bomb built by the eighteen-year old soldier Ronnie, who plots to kill the Pope during his visit to New York. (*) Bananas Shaughnessy and Bunny Flingus are the wife and mistress of the zookeeper-turned-songwriter Artie in this author's play The House of Blue Leaves. A two-sided Kandinsky painting revolves above the stage of this author's best-known play, in which Ouisa Kittredge realizes that she is connected to everyone on the planet through only a few people. For 10 points, the conman Paul pretends to be the son of Sidney Poitier in what American playwright's Six Degrees of Separation?
John Guare 
9

131444-)
In this novel, a mock funeral held for Matt Bonner's mule turns into a late-night drinking party. The protagonist's second husband beats her after she calls him impotent in front of the other men in the store which he owns; she had left her previous husband, Logan Killicks, for that man, Jody Starks. Later the protagonist has a job picking cabbage on the southern shore of Lake Okechobee, where during a flood after a hurricane her lover is bitten by a rabid dog. This describes, FTP, what novel in which Janey Crawford eventually has to shoot Tea Cake, the best-known work of Zora Neale Hurston?
Their Eyes Were Watching God
6

131453-)
In one short story by this author, Robin faces many obstacles while trying to find his cousin, whom he eventually sees being tarred and feathered. In another story by this author, Colonel Killigrew fights with Medbourne and Gascoigne over the now-young Widow Wycherly after drinking water from the fountain of youth provided by the title physician. This author of "My Kinsman, Major Molineaux" and "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment" wrote about Parson Hooper, who believes he is hiding the mark of sin on his face behind the title object in the story "The Minister's Black Veil." FTP who also wrote of the title character allegorically losing his wife Faith after seeing a demonic convocation in the woods in "Young Goodman Brown"?
Nathaniel Hawthorne
6

131465-)
In one novel by this author, the decreased social circumstances of Ethan Allen Hawley lead him to compromise his principles to regain his moneyed status. Ed Ricketts was the inspiration for the marine biologist Doc in another of this man's novels in which Mack and Lee Chong's party for Doc goes out of control and destroys his lab. Along with The Winter of Our Discontent and Cannery Row, another novel by this author sees Jim Casy killed during a strike, and Rose of Sharon breastfeed a starving man after her baby is stillborn. FTP name this author who created the Joad family in The Grapes of Wrath.
John Steinbeck
6

131472-)
In one story by this author, Helen is locked out in the snow by her husband Charlie Wales, who wants his daughter Honoria to live with him. This author of "Babylon Revisited" wrote a novel in which the actress Rosemary Hoyt has an affair with the psychiatrist Dick Diver, who  marries Nicole, a former patient. This author wrote another novel partially set in West Egg, in which George Wilson shoots the title character, who loves Daisy Buchanan, and befriends Nick Carraway. For 10 points, name this author of Tender is the Night and The Great Gatsby.
F. Scott Fitzgerald
6

131485-)
One character in this work utters the title analogy shortly before admitting that she should never have slept with Skipper. This play's patriarchal figure bellows that "There ain't nothin' more powerful than the odor of mendacity," a key theme in this play in which Maggie presumably lies about being pregnant in Act IV. Focusing on the dying Big Daddy's last discussions with his son Brick, FTP points what Tennessee Williams play's title refers to Maggie's nickname in a phrase representing the title animal's jumpiness on a heated surface?
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
6

131495-)
One scene in this work depicts townspeople gathering to listen to a Joe Louis fight, the narrator fretting that a Louis loss would be the equivalent of a black man beaten or a black woman raped. The narrator of this work begins a poem with the lines, "What are you looking at me for? I didn't come to stay." The narrator of this work describes her harrowing abuse and rape by Mr. Freeman, who is murdered after being acquitted in Stamps, Arkansas. This work was written by the poet of "On the Pulse of Morning," which was read at Bill Clinton's inauguration. FTP what is this autobiographical work by Maya Angelou?
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
6

131513-)
This author wrote, "only the snow can begin to explain how children are apt to forget to remember" in a poem that repeats the line, "sun moon stars rain". He described a character "who used to ride a watersmooth-silver stallion" in a poem that ends by asking, "how do you like your blueeyed boy Mister Death". This author created a "conscientious object-or" who is described as "more brave than me:more blond than you." This author wrote about one character that "he sang his didn't he danced his did". For 10 points, name this poet of "Buffalo Bill's", "anyone lived in a pretty how town" and "i sing of olaf glad and big", who often ignored punctuation and grammar.
ee cummings
6

131526-)
This state provides the setting for the early Harriet Beecher Stowe novel The Pearl of Orr's Island, which was an inspiration to the author of the novels Deephaven and A Country Doctor, both set in this state. That woman wrote a short story set in this state in which Sylvy ultimately decides not to reveal the location of the title bird to a hunter. Along with "A White Heron," another author used the town of Gardiner in this state as the basis for his fictional Tilbury Town. FTP what state was home to Sarah Orne Jewett and Edwin Arlington Robinson, as well as horror novelist Stephen King?
Maine
6

131533-)
The speaker of this poem describes "impossible criminals with golden heads and the charm of reality in their hearts" before writing, "you bang on the catatonic piano the soul is innocent and immortal." One line is addressed to the "secret hero of these poems, cocksman and Adonis of Denver." Its second section begins by asking about a "sphinx of cement and aluminum" and frequently exclaims the word "Moloch!" The third section of this poem repeats the line "I'm with you in Rockland." It begins, "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness." For 10 points, name this poem, dedicated to Carl Solomon and written by Allen Ginsberg.
"Howl"
6

131541-)
This author's 1958 story about the Army sergeant Marx who offers preferential treatment to three fellow Jewish soldiers led to an outcry from the Anti-Defamation League.  The controversy sparked by his story "Defender of the Faith," collected in the book Goodbye, Columbus, presaged the greater scandal of his novel including descriptions of the title character's frequent masturbation, including once with a  piece of liver, and his efforts to land a blonde shiks[a]. FTP what creator of Nathan Zuckerman wrote novels like The Human Stain and Portnoy's Complaint?
Philip Roth
6

131557-)
This poet wrote about a man who "cursed the commonplace/ and eyed a khaki suit with loathing" who "loved the Medici,/ albeit he had never seen one." This man wrote, "Go to the western gate" to begin his poem "Luke Havergal" and wrote another poem about a man who was "clean favored, and imperially slim." He wrote about a man "born too late" who "kept on drinking" in "Miniver Cheevy." His best-known creation is a character who "went home and put a bullet in his head." For 10 points, name this author of "Richard Cory."
Edward Arlington Robinson
6

131575-)
This author wrote a work in which Henry Morley climbs Matterhorn Peak after Japhy Ryder introduces Ray Smith to "Yab-Yum" rituals. A cabin on Bixby Canyon owned by Lorenzo Monsanto is the setting of another of his works in which Cody Pomeray's mistress Billie lives with the narrator, Jack Duluoz. His best-known novel sees the narrator stay in New Orleans with Old Bull Lee after hitch-hiking to Denver to meet up with Carlo Marx and Dean Moriarty. For 10 points, name this author of The Dharma Bums and Big Sur, who fictionalized himself as Sal Paradise in On the Road.
Jack Kerouac
6

131581-)
One author of this surname satirized attitudes toward the Mexican-American war in a work showcasing letters from Birdofredum Sawin to the title character in The Biglow Papers. That Fireside Poet was first cousin to the author of "Patterns," an Imagist poet whose work Ezra Pound derided as "Amygism." Another member of this family carried on a famous correspondence with the poet Elizabeth Bishop and described "Colonel Shaw . . . riding on his bubble" in a poem describing Augustus St. Gaudens' "shaking relief" of Black Civil War soldiers. FTP what family included James Russell, and Robert, the latter the author of "For the Union Dead" and "Skunk Hour"?
Lowell
6

131594-)
In one novel by this author, World War I veteran Shadrack institutes National Suicide Day; that novel's title character's last name is Peace, and she reunites with her friend Nel at novel's end. At the beginning of another novel by this author, an insurance agent who hopes he can fly with plastic wings jumps to his death from "No Mercy Hospital" a day before Ruth gives birth to the novels protagonist Milkman Dead. Her best known novel depicts a haunting at 124 Bluestone before the title girl come to Sethe's home. FTP what African-American novelist wrote Sula, Song of Solomon, and Beloved?
Toni Morrison
6

131600-)
One novel set in this city features "Ã¤ppÃ¤rÃ¤t"s that share data about characters like Eunice Park and Lenny Abramov. That novel is Gary Shtyenngart's Super Sad True Love Story. In another novel set here a key found in an envelope prompts a meeting at which William Black is told by Oskar Schell about a voicemail consisting of the repeated phrase "Are you there?" In another novel set here Keith Neudecker's estranged wife Lianne repeatedly sees the title street performer. For 10 points, name this setting of Jonathan Safran Foer's Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close and Don DeLillo's Falling Man, both of which center on responses to the 9/11 attacks.
New York City
6

131609-)
One author with this surname wrote the line "imponderable the dinosaur sinks slow" and described the "eastern Cape" as a "mammoth saurian ghoul." He also described "the dice of drowned men's bones" in "At Melville's Tomb." Another author with this surname wrote of a "creature, naked, bestial" who tells the speaker "I like it, because it is bitter, and because it is my heart." That author wrote a novel in which the "tattered man" and Jim Conklin are encountered by Henry Fleming and he shares this surname with the author of The Bridge. For 10 points, name this surname shared by poet Hart and Red Badge of Courage author Stephen.
Crane
6

131627-)
The mention of the town of Toomsboro and the description of the killer's "black, hearse-like automobile" foreshadow the killings of six characters at the end of this short story. The snotty children June Star and John Wesley constantly abuse their parents and grandmother in this story, and the cat Pitty Sing causes a car crash when it springs from a picnic basket. The killer in this story says his name derives from his inability to decide whether Jesus raised the dead or not. FTP the Misfit kills a family at the end of what ironically titled short story by Flannery O'Connor?
"A Good Man Is Hard to Find"
6

131635-)
This poet addressed Ramon Fernandez in a poem that begins, "She sang beyond the genius of the sea." Another of his speakers compares himself to a tree after saying, "I was of three minds" and asks, "O thin men of Haddam,/ why do you imagine golden birds?" This author also wrote about "the dresser of deal, lacking the three glass knobs" in a poem that exhorts, "Let be be finale of seem." He wrote "Idea of Order at Key West," "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird" and a poem that begins, "Call the roller of big cigars." For 10 points, name this author of "The Emperor of Ice Cream."
Wallace Stevens 
6

131650-)
This real-life figure was parodied in Philip Roth's Our Gang as saying he was against sex itself. This figure is sodomized by the allegorical "Uncle Sam" at the end of Robert Coover's novel The Public Burning, which he narrates. Ralph Steadman depicted this figure as Godzilla, clutching a Viet Cong soldier in one claw, in a drawing collected in Hunter Thompson's book Fear and Loathing on the Campaign Trail '72. FTP who is this figure depicted in Ishmael Reed's The Freelance Pallbearers signing autographs for wounded war veterans with his dog Checkers and wife Pat, a former president of the US?
Richard Nixon
6

131661-)
This novel ends with one member of the central family bellowing because he was driven the wrong way around a monument to the Confederate dead. The last image of that character's sister in this novel is a photograph of her with her Nazi husband in Europe. The oldest brother of the central family in this novel is beaten up after befriending a little Italian-American girl, and later that day drowns himself in the Charles River. Benjy often thinks that Caddy "smelled like trees" in what novel, FTP, with a title taken from Macbeth, written by William Faulkner?
The Sound and the Fury
6

131673-)
Each of the eight sentences of this eight-line poem are a three-word independent clause, with all but the last ending with the same two-letter pronoun. The poem's epigraph refers to a pool hall, the name of which could be a metaphor for the life of pleasure that leads to death, the main theme. The poem's central pronoun refers to the "seven" at the "Golden Shovel" who "Lurk late" and "strike straight." Written by the author of Annie Allen, the first Black woman to win a Pulitzer, FTP what deceptively simple poem's central figures "jazz June" and "die soon" in a work by Gwendolyn Brooks?
"We Real Cool"
6

131720-)
Though it is now understood that this writer died of uremia aggravated by a morphine overdose, several older sources mysteriously report his death as a suicide. The Barnum and Bailey Circus temporarily stopped trained animal acts as a result of lobbying from a club named for this author, who raised public awareness of cruelty to circus animals in the foreword to his novel Jerry of the Islands. This one-time oyster pirate established a financially disastrous "Beauty Ranch" in Sonoma County. The first recorded instance of the (*) drunken hallucination of "seeing pink elephants" appears in this author's memoir John Barleycorn. The term "yellow peril" gained traction in American discourse after this writer penned a super racist 1904 essay with that title. This writer's development of scurvy during the Klondike Gold Rush informed his story of a man who dies of hypothermia when he fails to perform the title action. For 10 points, name this author of "To Build a Fire," who wrote about the sled dog Buck in Call of the Wild.
Jack London [or John Griffith London; or John Griffith Chaney] 
9

131736-)
An author with this surname wrote a poem praising a boy who holds his head "High sort of and a bit to one side / Like a prince, a jazz prince." A poet with this surname wrote of an object that "tries to forget it has dreamed with the stars / While it breaks, breaks, breaks on the sheltering bars," in her poem that begins "The heart of a woman goes forth with the dawn." The black female poets Helene and Georgia Douglas shared this surname with the author of a poem whose speaker declares "I'm lonely - / I'll make me a world." A weary old woman in Savannah named (*) Sister Caroline is brought to heaven in "Go Down, Death," which an author with this surname included alongside "The Prodigal Son" and "The Creation" among his "seven sermons in Negro verse." For 10 points, give the surname of the Harlem Renaissance poet of God's Trombones and the "black national anthem" "Lift Ev'ry Voice and Sing," James Weldon.
Johnson [or Helene Johnson; accept Georgia Douglas Johnson; or James Weldon Johnson] 
9

131782-)
In its introduction, the author of this play traced its genesis to his first conscious memory, when he was on a knoll watching a new house be built. A character in this play receives a bracelet from her husband when it slides off his flaccid penis. In this play's longest speech, a character recounts literally rolling in the hay with a stable groom to get revenge on her husband, whom she derisively nicknames "the penguin." This play ends with one of its title characters taking the hands of the others, and declaring the (*) happiest moment to be "When it's all done. When we stop. When we can stop." A character in this play reappears in Act II wearing a breathing mask after suffering a stroke at the end of Act I. This play includes a non-speaking character called The Boy, the estranged gay son of the title characters, who are different incarnations of the same person at ages twenty-six, fifty-two, and ninety. For 10 points, name this Pulitzer-winning autobiographical Edward Albee play, whose title characters are named A, B, and C.
Three Tall Women 
9

131796-)
In one of this author's poems, a child dreams of ridings in cars, hoping "to create / out of his own imagination / the beauty of his wild / forebears -- a mythology / he cannot inherit." This poet confessed: "I want people to bow when they see me and say / he is gifted with poetry, he has seen the presence of / the Creator," in a poem set at his empty new cottage at Berkeley. This poet of "Wild Orphan" experiences the Blakean revelation that "we're not our skin of grime, we're not dread bleak dusty imageless locomotives," upon holding up a "skeleton thick" (*) plant he finds in a railyard, in a poem about an outing with Jack Kerouac. The speaker of a poem by this author of "Transcription of Organ Music" imagines the questions "Who killed the pork chops? What price bananas? Are you my angel?" being asked by Walt Whitman as he eyes the grocery boys. For 10 points, name this poet who numbered "Sunflower Sutra" and "A Supermarket in California" among the "other poems" published alongside his masterpiece Howl.
Allen Ginsberg [or Irwin Allen Ginsberg] 
9

131805-)
A character in this novel praises a woman for having a moral sense like a "lightning elevator" compared to his, which is more like a broken old staircase. After her friend goes on a walk with the middle book of a three volume set, the protagonist of this novel brings the first book, as an excuse for them to talk privately. Its protagonist uses the derisive term "American City" for the town where her millionaire widower father plans to dedicate a museum. In this novel, a shopkeeper recognizes photographs of a pair who spoke (*) Italian during their trip to buy a wedding present for the protagonist, choosing to pass over the title object due to well-founded suspicions that it had a crack in its crystal structure. In this novel, the gossipy Fanny Assingham conceals the affair between Charlotte Stant and the protagonist's husband Prince Amerigo. For 10 points, name this novel in which Maggie Verver buys the title flawed dish, written by Henry James. 
The Golden Bowl 
9

131810-)
In a story from this collection, a dog named Sparky breaks an "intelligence analyzer" calibrated to Thomas Edison himself. This collection, which includes a funny review of a Random House dictionary, is titled for a story whose protagonist tries to follow in his grandfather's footsteps by reading "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways" to a woman he is trying to seduce. A physicist discovers a signal in the universe that can generate euphoria in humans, in this collection's story "The Euphio Question." At the end of a story in this collection, George and Hazel both (*) cry at something sad they saw on television, but neither can remember what it was. In its title story, the "Nothinghead" Billy the Poet rapes Nancy, a virgin hostess working at an ethical suicide parlor. The title character of its best-known story dances higher and higher with a ballerina before being shot down by the Handicapper General Diana Glampers. For 10 points, name this Kurt Vonnegut collection that includes "Harrison Bergeron."
Welcome to the Monkey House 
9

131817-)
A later one of these, published in 1889 includes a proposal to use "Simplified Spelling." They include one addressed to children about using pictures to make history dates stick, as well as one that discusses the decline of the tenth muse or the fourth grace Â– the art of lying. Instructions to delay the publication of one of them Â– "The United States of Lyncherdom" was given to Albert Bigelow Paine, and they can be found in volumes like "What is Man?" and "30,000 Dollar Bequest." One of them grew out of the author's visit to Heidelberg castle and includes many inflections of the phrase "Mein guter freund," while another chastises Wilkie Collins for having not read the titular author and claims that the latter has scored a 114 out of a 115 possible points against literary art. For 10 points, identify these works which include "The Awful German Language" and "Fenimore Cooper's Literary Offenses."
essays by Mark Twain [accept equivalents] [take things like Twain's opinions, or Twain's articles]
9

131849-)
One character in this work is able to make money with his flipbook of sketches when he sells it to a bookstore, while another character blindly follows Robert's racist attitudes against Eskimos. While in a library, two businessmen have a conversation about reincarnation, only for one of them to conclude it must be true in order to explain his genius. In its last chapter, Morgan takes a trip to the pyramids of Egypt. After secret service agents punch Sarah in this novel, one character kills four members of the Emerald Isle Firehouse. That character, who personally talks with Booker T. Washington, does so in hopes that he gets his Model T. back. Intertwining the family of Mother with the story of Coalhouse Walker, this work of historical fiction, with characters like Harry Houdini and the anarchist Emma Goldman, was the next novel after its author's The Book of Daniel. For 10 points, name this novel by E.L. Doctorow.
Ragtime
9

131855-)
"The Triumph of Gravity" and "For Rebecca" can be found in this author's book of poems The Chinaman, while his critical works include one that concludes the subject of all drama is "The Lie," but at the end there is "The Truth." In addition to writing Three Uses of the Knife and Writing in Restaurants, he created a character that never eats cantaloupe because it gives him the runs. That character has the personal motto "action talks, bullshit walks." In another work by this author, one character talks about "the old ways" and how he "convert the motherfucker," then "sells him." His other works include one about Charles Smith called November, and he also wrote about Donny Debrow and his lackey Bob trying to steal a coin that the former undersold. For 10 points, name this author of American Buffalo whose other works include one about Shelley the Machine Levine, Glengarry Glen Ross.
David Mamet
9

131873-)
One of his poems describes "where the landless blood of Cain / is burning, burning the unburied grain," and is found in a work titled after Etienne Gilson's study of Saint Bernard. He wrote a seven part poem whose 77th line makes use of the Latin word clamavus, and whose 6th part is dedicated to "Our Lady of Walsingham." In another of his works, "Love of Careless Love" is what a "car radio bleats," and the speaker claims "I myself am hell." In addition to Land of Unlikeliness, he wrote about "giant finned cars" that "nose forward like fish," in a poem that claims "The old South Boston Aquarium stands / in a Sahara of snow now." Another of his poems is dedicated to Elizabeth Bishop and describes the title animal that "jabs her wedge-head in a cup / of sour cream, drops her ostrich tail / and will not scare." For 10 points, name this author of "For the Union Dead" and "Skunk Hour."
Robert Lowell
9

131886-)
Near the end of this work, we are told to "look in the mirror," "stand at the window as the tears scald and start." One part of this poem describes how "the desert sighs in the bed" and notes how a crack in the tea-cup opens "a lane to the land of the dead." A different stanza of this work sees the speaker ask someone to "plunge your hands in water, plunge them up to the wrist" and "stare in the basin." The speaker of this work holds the "Flower of the Ages" and "the first love of the world," and describes how "I'll love you till the ocean is folded and hung up to dry." Later on, clocks in this work "began to whirr and chime" with a message that reads "O let not time deceive you, you cannot conquer time!" The end of this poem notes how "the clocks had ceased their chiming / and the deep river ran on." For 10 points, name this poem whose narrator does the title action on "Bristol Street," a work of W.H. Auden.
"As I Walked out One Evening"
9

131892-)
One poem by this author discusses "these well-meant idioms into the smoky spring that fills the suburbs." In another poem a black man "wanders in some mid-kingdom" and it is noted that "Aesop, driven to pondering, found Heaven with the tortoise and the hare." In addition to "Praise for an Urn" and "Black Tambourine" this author wrote a collection that ends with six poems, the first of which begins "Above the fresh ruffles of the surf, bright striped urchins flay each other with sand." He wrote a love poem that quotes a nonsensical passage in The Alchemist, and that poem begins "the mind has shown itself at times too much the baked and labeled dough." This author of six poems called Voyages wrote a poem about "this fabulous shadow [that] only the sea keeps." The speaker of that poem by this author saw the "dice of drowned men's bones." This author "The Marriage of Faustus and Helen" and "At Melville's Tomb" put those poems into his White Buildings. For 10 points, name this author of an epic poem called The Bridge.
Hart Crane
9

131929-)
Near the end of Act III, the title character claims "I can make it myselfÂ…one way or the other. I'm my own boss. Put that in your pipe and smoke it!" Before working as a nurse girl in St. Paul, the main character of this work made money for her cousins; this lead's to much confrontation with her Swedish father throughout much of this work. At multiple points throughout this work, many characters sing of "Yosephine." The second act of this work begins with a heavy fog onstage, and its first act is set at a bar owned by Johnny the Priest in New York City. In its final act, Chris reconciles with his daughter, the title character, who promises to never be a prostitute again when she and Matt Burke reconcile before sailing off to South Africa. For 10 points, name this play by Eugene O'Neill.
Anna Christie
9

131946-)
Shortly after one character in this story observes the shadow of a cloud moving across a river and a field of grain, two characters at length in this story debate whether "We can have everything," "We can have the world" and "We can go everywhere." Near the end of this work, one character puts their bags on board a train and is told "Would you please, please, please, please, please, please, please stop talking?" At another point in this work two characters enjoy the alcoholic beverage Anis del Toro while waiting to get to Madrid. This story, set in the Ebro Valley in Spain, first appeared in its author's Men without Women. Focusing on the American, who is trying to convince Jig to get an operation, for 10 points, name this story by Ernest Hemmingway named after some giant pachyderms.
"Hills like White Elephants"
9

131964-)
The fourth volume of these works sees the protagonist visiting hell, where his spiritual lawyer enters in a plea of "not guilty by reason of death" for the main speaker. The main speaker of these works, who has written "Ode: to that Boring Shit James Thomson, Seasonal," asks his various coworkers to forget "footnotes on Frost" before criticizing President Eisenhower and John F Kennedy. The narrator's alternate identities include Tambo who is at a minstrel show. Many of these works are followed up with a sequence called Opus Posthumous, and nearly all of them follow a structure consisting of three sestets. The last portions of this group of poems describe in detail the narrator Henry contemplating the death of poets like Sylvia Plath and Randall Jarrell, but he fixates most of his thoughts on Delmore Schwartz. For 10 points, identify these poems by John Berryman.
Dream Songs
9

131985-)
One of this man's works features the love interest, Myna, and is set in Logos College where the main character, Gary Harkness, plays football. This author wrote another work subtitled "An Intimate Memoir by the First Woman Ever to Play in the National Hockey League" under the pseudonym Cleo Birdwell. In addition to End Zone and Amazons, this author wrote a work which sees the novelist , Bill Gray, travel to Lebanon and have an affair with Karen Janney and another one of his novels implicates Guy Bannister and presents Lee (*) Harvey Oswald's perspective on the Kennedy assassination. Another of his novels' prologues was published separately as "Pafko at the Wall" and details the life of the waste manager, Nick Shay. Â One of this man's protagonists is a colleague of Murray Susskind and is a professor of Hitler Studies. Mao II and Libra were written by, for ten points, what author of White Noise and Underworld.
Don DeLillo
7

131987-)
In one poem, this author describes how "the lakes of ice gleam bluer than the lakes." Another poem discusses how strangely "the warring ancient Â… stylized Â… March, the month of war." Those two poems, the first of which is called "December" is found in this author's A Calendar of Sonnets. This author wrote about a character named Eyes in the Sky who perishes because her parents are in the isolated San Bernardino Mountains in one work. The title character of that novel is a part Scottish girl that lives with Alessandro. That work of fiction was written three years after this author presented a survey beginning with Hudson's landing of the Half Moon to Captain Carver's mistreatment of the Winnebagoes as part of a work subtitled "A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealing with some of the Indian Tribes." For 10 points, name this author of Ramona and A Century of Dishonor.
Helen Hunt Jackson
9

132009-)
The narrator of this work describes a man whose hunger led him to kill and eat another human when he was mistaken for a hair seal. One section of this work describes the formation of a riotocracy at the behest of a Creole, and another section describes a man going to "Feejee" with four cutlasses and a blunderbuss. Another section details a woman's husband's attempt to harvest oil, but he drowns after building a canoe. The narrator recalls seeing the word "memento" engraved on the back of a large creature, and other parts describe the "dog-king" of Charles Isle and the conniving Oberlus. Presented as a series of ten sketches, portions of this work described Barrington Isle and the giant creatures that inhabit Rock Redondo Tower. For 10 points, name this work found in the Piazza Tales, a short story by Herman Melville about the Galapagos Islands.
The Encantadas or The Enchanted Isles
9

132014-)
The protagonist of one novel by this author is the only one to survive his dad's act of family annihilation, and he searches Toronto for his daughter after the counter-culture guru Shell elopes with her. Another one of her protagonists named Jules reads about the radical ideas of Vinoba Bhave and becomes part of a group that can't make up to mind whether it would be more fruitful to kill LBJ or Martin Luther King. This author also examined the teenager life of Swan Walpole after his mother Clara hooks up with Curt Reve. Another novel by this author describes the children of Corinne and Michael on a farm in New York, one of whom is raped and refuses to press charges, leading her to be shipped off to Spain. For 10 points, name this author whose novels like them and A Garden of Earthly Delights are part of her Wonderland Quartet, whose other works include We Were the Mulvaneys and "Where are you going? Where have you been?"
Joyce Carol Oates
9

132050-)
His works include one in which "savants make earth include the sky," as well as a didactic poem that tells us to "keep the pathway open that leads you on to heaven." In addition to "Fragmentary Blue" and "God's Garden" he wrote a poem about the "slave of the springtime passion to Earth," which is "love burns through the title process." That poem by him, called "Putting of the Seed" is found in a collection that also describes a boy who was put "into the dark of ether." That poem by this author ends with the line "they Â… who were not the one dead, turned to the affairs" after a saw had buzzed off a kid's hand when his sister called him for supper. This author of the poetry collection Mountain Interval also wrote "Home Burial" and described two men, one of which is all pine, the other of which is all apple orchard in another work. For 10 points, name this author who wrote North of Boston, which includes his poem "Mending Wall."
Robert Frost
9

132069-)
The protagonist of this work argues that mathematicians make mistakes akin to most people rejecting pagan stories by citing Bryant's Mythology. Halfway through this story, a tale is told about Abernethy, who consults an imaginary person for medical advice. Its protagonist writes on a piece of paper a cryptic sentence about Prosper Crebillon's Atree et Thyeste, and wears thick green spectacles in order to disguise his quick search. The beginning of this work sees one man describe how he has repeatedly search through a hotel and the legs of various pieces furniture looking for the title object, which belongs to a royal personage. Eventually, the protagonist is able to retrieve from Minister D the titular document and return it for fifty thousand francs. For 10 points name this story that, as a follow up to Murders in the Rue Morgue, is the third story to feature C. Auguste Dupin.
"The Purloined Letter"
9

132075-)
Multiple characters in this work graduate from St. Cyr, including a corporal who had failed to pursue camel thief Â– this in turn led him to fail to start a "local war." Its author used his story "A Dangling Participle from Work in Progress" in this novel to provide a lesson in morality about a race horse. After a long speech by one character derived from the author's Nobel Lecture about how "man will prevail," it ends with the quartermaster-general at the funeral of a recently deceased general. Levine commits suicide in this novel after realizing the artillery in his airplane are mere blanks. Beginning with the chapter "Wednesday" all the chapters in this work are titled after days of the week to indicate how little time has passed since two sides stopped fighting. Set during World War I, an unnamed corporal and twelve men under him refuse to attack in the opening pages of this novel. For 10 points, identify this adaptation of the Gospel set in the midst of war, written by William Faulkner.
A Fable
9

132106-)
Its founder claims that today he is a "Bulgarian minister of education," but tomorrow he will be a "Helen of Troy." That man, who began this movement was wounded in the second battle of Ypres and sailed the world in Remington Rumfoord IV's yacht Scheherazade. The sixth book of this belief's main text is fragmentary in form and discusses how torture causes much crying, but "the oubliette alone will let you think while dying." It holds that the sun and the moon are represented by Borasisi and Pabu respectively, and their cold children are the planets of the solar system. Many people associated with it claim "Now I will destroy the whole world" right before killing themselves, and its founder had previously met Corporal McCabe. It holds that karasses do God's will. Practiced on the island of San Lorenzo, for 10 points, name this fictional religion found in Kurt Vonnegut's Cat's Cradle.
Bokononism
9

132116-)
There was a tossup on one of this man's works at in UC-Irvine's packet at 1999 Cardinal Classic. Lesser-known works of this man include Morning Girl, Cloud Chamber, and Sees Behind Trees. One novel of his features the characters Christine, Ida, and Rayona, wile another highlights the life of his (+) adopted son Reynold, who was stricken with Fetal Alcohol Syndrome. Those two works are A Yellow Raft in Blue Water and The Broken Cord. (*) This man collaborated with his one-time wife on The Crown of Columbus, The Beat Queen and Love Medicine. For 10 points, name this author whose American Indian heritage is debated, probably best noted for formerly being married to Louise Erdrich, a somewhat controversial author who committed suicide in 1997
Michael Anthony Dorris
8

132131-)
The first tossup of the Editor's packet of Chicago Open 2007 is a tossup on the collection in which this poem appears. The only metaphor in tis poem occurs in the fifth stanza describing objects that "lay together, hull to hull, / where the graveyard shells on the town." The speaker comments on "fishnet's filled with orange cork" that a decorator uses to (+)  "brighten his shop for fall." This poem depicts a figure "Thirsting for / the hierarchic pride / of Queen Victoria's century" who buys all the "eyesores facing her shore." This poem begins by describing "Nautilus Island's hermit heiress" who "lives in her Spartan cottage." The speaker of this poem listens to a (*) radio playing "Love, O careless Love" while driving in his "Tudor Ford" before admitting in the sixth stanza, "I myself am hell, / nobody's here." This poem dedicated to Elizabeth Bishop, ends when the speaker observes the title creature "will not scare" when he catches it rummaging through a garbage can "jab[bing] her wedge-head in a cup / of sour cream." Collected in Life Studies, for 10 points, name this poem titled after the time of a scavenging animal, written by Robert Lowell.
"Skunk Hour"
8

132168-)
This author's interest in Egypt was reflected in his book Egypt: The Eternal Smile, as well as in his two novels fictionalizing the life of Akhenaten, A God Against the Gods and Return to Thebes. He wrote about the members of the 1939 Alpha Zeta fraternity house in a trilogy beginning with Toward What Bright Glory? One of his novels ends on the cliffhanging note of Ted Jason being shot at, and this author subsequently wrote two separate novels exploring what happened if he lived or died. This author of The Promise of Joy and Come Nineveh, Come Tyre featured such villains as racist Rufus Kleinfert, black militant LeGage Shelby, and the head of COMFORT, Fred Van Ackerman. His most famous novel features a subplot involving the homosexual affair of Brigham Anderson during World War II. That novel ends with Orrin Knox on his way to Switzerland after he, and not the leftist Bob Leffingwell, becomes Secretary of State. For 10 points, name this conservative author who won the 1959 Pulitzer for Advise and Consent.
Allen Drury
8

132174-)
Tales beginning "My mother, who was the first cat, told me this story" are told to the narrator of this novella by her cat Jonas when she goes to her hiding space near the creek on her property. That narrator dislikes Jim Donell, who taunts her at Stella's coffee shop and later throws the first rock (**) through her window after helping put out a fire she started in her own home. The narrator began that fire in an effort to dislodge her cousin Charles, who has come to convince the narrator's sister (*) Constance to move away from the Blackwood estate. It begins with the narrator's assertion that she likes Richard Plantagenet and the amanoida phallsius, the death's head mushroom. For 10 points, name this novella about Mary Catherine Blackwood, who has poisoned all but two members of her family, a short work by the author of The Haunting of Hill House, Shirley Jackson.
We Have Always Lived in the Castle
8

132182-)
This author's story of Monck Mason's trip across the Atlantic in a gas-powered balloon was a hoax that he got published in the New York Sun. He visited "The Turk" in advance of his analysis of the automaton titled "Maelzel's (**) Chess-Player," which proposed an incorrect theory of its working. The figure of a horse's head is made by the smoke above the title character's burning castle after he has plunged into it on a "demonic steed" in his first published fictional work, the story "Metzgerstein." Kant is referred to as a Dutchman and a disciple of the Turkish thinker Aries (*) Tottle in a letter found in a bottle in this man's potentially satiric attempt at a cosmology, Eureka. The unnamed narrator overwhelming worry that he could incriminate himself drives him to admit his murder of a man by using a poison candle in this man's story "The Imp of the Perverse." Known for his emphasis on his characters' ratiocination, for 10 points, name this author of "The Mystery of Marie Roget" and "Murders in the Rue Morgue."
Edgar Allan Poe
8

132218-)
One character in this novel feels as if he has stepped into the frame of a painting after taking a train ride to search for a certain shade of green that he had seen in a landscape by Lambinet many years ago. Â That character, when lonely, visits Notre Dame, often encountering the same woman in prayer, whom he discovers to be an acquaintance. Â A description of life as a "tin mould," either being overly ornate or hopelessly dull, is made by one character in a speech to (*) Little Gilham in this novel in which he claims that "one has the illusion of freedom" and that one must "live all you can." Â In this novel, Waymarsh and Sarah Pocock are among those who do not see the charms of Paris, while Lambert Strether fails to bring Chad Newsome back to his mother in America. Â For 10 points, name this novel by Henry James.
The Ambassadors
7

132245-)
Adrienne Rich wrote that "I am traveling at the speed of time" in an essay about this author in which Rich claims that she "explored her own mind, without... orthodoxy," describing her place of writing with the comment "here's freedom." Â The subject of "Vesuvius at Home," Rebecca Patterson wrote a book about "The Riddle of" this author, using her claim that she "had a (*) terror since September" to support the hypothesis that Kate Anthon was her lesbian partner. Â She described how the bravest learn to see, even though they stumble, in a poem beginning "We grow accustomed to the dark- / When light is put away." Â Known for the extensive use of dashes and slant rhymes, her poems are usually referenced by their first lines. Â For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "Because I could not stop for Death."
Emily Dickinson [accept "Vesuvius at Home" before read]
7

132273-)
Jules Bledsoe interrupted his own staging of this play to yell at the audience for directing their opinions and advice at its protagonist. Â One character in this play is a witch doctor who wears antelope horns, carries a bone rattle, and dances as if he is pursued by demons. Â In this play's opening scene, a woman proclaims that her brethren have gone to the hills after sneaking through a room that is only decorated with a giant chair. Â This play's protagonist is almost sacrificed on an altar next to a giant (*) crocodile, and he is haunted by his having killed Jeff over a game of craps and by his escape from a chain gang. Â This play calls for an ever-increasing drum beat, and the protagonist claims that he can only be killed by a silver bullet. Â For 10 points, name this play about the ruler of a Caribbean island by Eugene O'Neill.
The Emperor Jones
7

132299-)
This work compares the influence of orators, poets, and commanders to that of attractive women in that it affects us only to the degree that we allow it to do so. Â This work proclaims that "Character is always known" to discuss how good and evil have an affinity for themselves, beginning with the selection of friends and ending with the sorting of souls into heaven and hell. Â It claims that (*) Christianity has given us two good things, the Sabbath and the idea of preaching, but criticizes its focus on Jesus and its notion of revelation having happened long ago, not continually in the existence of God in mankind around us. Â Arguing that one sentiment unites all souls and all religions, it got its author accused of atheism. Â For 10 points, name this speech delivered to Harvard's graduating religious scholars by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
Divinity School Address
7

132314-)
Forests flee before the stroke of one group of people in this poem whose "hammers ring their forges smoke" and who "sit in honest labour" despite their voices sounding "through senate halls / In majesty and power." Â One part of this poem describes the "plant of freedom," which "upward sprung" with "leaves so fresh and young." Â It tells of a group of people who were able to (*) forget their past and prove themselves "So noble in forgiving" after a period in their history when they "seldom stooped to grieving." Â Containing the image of "Glory's scroll" with a name printed in "characters of fire," this poem's author brings his "pledge of faith unwavering" to his "Mother Race." Â For 10 points, name this Paul Laurence Dunbar poem about African-American pride framed as an ode to an African country.
"Ode to Ethiopia"
7

132334-)
.  In one story by this author, the title character beats up his former best friend in a gay bashing, leading him to rethink his worldviews and his father's political campaign. Â In another story by this writer, a film editor named George Wilson kills an African-American youth who broke into his house, causing him to be labeled as a racist. Â This author of "The Senator's Son" and "Breaking and Entering" wrote about two men who question whether basketball hopefuls like Julius Windmaker will make it all the way while observing that a broken (*) traffic light still hasn't been fixed. Â He created the characters of Victor Joseph and Thomas Builds-the-Fire. Â For 10 points, name this Native American author who adapted the movie Smoke Signals from his collection The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fist Fight in Heaven.
Sherman Alexie
7

132359-)
In one story by this author, one character recounts that her husband used to always ask her what she was thinking when they were first married, but he never does anymore; in that story, Jim Moore shoots the cousin of his wife, Jelka Sepic, after finding the two in bed together. Â In another of his stories, Pepe is proclaimed a man by his mother when he kills someone during an altercation, culminating in Pepe's death on the run. Â He created a woman who asks her husband if they can have wine at their dinner after she is visited by a (*) traveling fixer of housewares. Â This author of "The Murder" and "The Flight" wrote a story in which Elisa Allen's underappreciated talents are put to use gardening the titular flowers. Â For 10 points, name this author of "The Chrysanthemums," which he set in his native Salinas Valley.
John Steinbeck
7

132370-)
One of this author's characters remarks that "It's funny how associations envelop our lives" after she moves into a new home with her husband. Â Later, that character declines a proposal of sex from Hastings, crying to her husband that she doesn't want to imitate other women. Â This author wrote a novel whose protagonist injures her foot while working as a (*) ballet dancer after moving to France with her daughter, Bonnie, and her artist husband, David Knight. Â The protagonist of Gilles Leroy's novel Alabama Song, interest in her work was revived by a dissertation-turned-biography about her by Nancy Milford. Â Her time in a Baltimore mental hospital was the basis for parts of Tender is the Night. Â For 10 points, name this author of Save Me the Waltz, the wife of the creator of Jay Gatsby
Zelda Fitzgerald [prompt on partial answer]
7

132400-)
This writer stated that "When we talk about mortality we are talking about our children" in a book that opens with a girl who has "quicksilver changes of mood" marrying a musician named Gerry Michael. Â One of this author's works ends by repeatedly asking why a young child is being allowed to do such things as set fires and bite on an electrical cord unsupervised. This author, who told of her daughter (*) Quintana Roo's death in Blue Nights, described the "vortex effect" of memories that assailed her as she convinced herself that her husband John would not return in another memoir. Â She termed children given LSD by their parents part of High Kindergarten in an essay collection about life in San Francisco. Â For 10 points, name this author of The Year of Magical Thinking and Slouching Towards Bethlehem.
Joan Didion
7

132406-)
She wrote about an artist who proclaims herself a guerrilla and a gorilla girl before having a sexual encounter with Lorenzo in her "Short, Short Story" "Kiss." Â One of this author's characters experiences a declining marriage with Josh Ace, is told "above all, never be ordinary" by her mother, Jude, and receives the advice "Love is everything it's cracked up to be. Â That's why people are so cynical about it. Â It really is worth fighting for." Â The editor of the collection (*) Sugar in My Bowl, this author's Parachutes and Kisses continues the story of a woman who embarks across Europe with Adrian Goodlove, leaving her husband Bennett at a psychology congress while on a quest for the "Zipless Fuck." Â For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Isadora Wing in Fear of Flying.
Erica Jong
7

132466-)
This author's only bestseller during his lifetime is a novel about the disappointments of dreamers Aline and Dudley. In one story by this author, the married farm laborer Ray Pearson wants to tell Hal Winters not to marry Nell, whom he had impregnated, but decides not to. He also wrote another story about a man whose newly-opened restaurant fails to draw customers and tries to become an interesting person by performing a trick with the title object. In addition to Dark (*) Laughter and "Triumph of the Egg," this author also wrote a story about Doctor Reefy who keeps little scraps of paper in his pocket that eventually ball up. "Paper Pills" appears along with "The Untold Lie" in a collection by this author that centers around the life of George Willard in the title town. For 10 points, name this author of the collection Winesburg, Ohio.
Sherwood Anderson
7

132482-)
In one review, Gerald Heard questioned whether this work fit into the Authorized Version of Milton and Dryden or the iconographic tradition of Crashaw and Dryden and Edmund Wilson said this work had a "definite feature of inferiority." The work describes a staircase as "damp, jaggedÂ…beyond repair", comparing it to "an old man's drivellingÂ…or the toothed gullet of aged shark." Â This work's second section ends by claiming "This is the land which ye / Shall divide by lot / And neither division nor unity / Matters" Â and states that the land is "our inheritance". This poem begins with the repetitive plea (*) "Because I do not hope to turn again / Because I do not hope / Because I do not hope to turn" and then begs that God "have mercy upon us / And pray that I may forget / These matters that with myself I too much discuss." Meditating on the author's recent conversation to Anglicanism, for ten points, name this 1930 T.S. Eliot poem named for a religious holiday.
"Ash Wednesday"
7

132491-)
In this story, the protagonist remembers a sick Italian named Mollica who wanted to see California before he died. This story's brief prologue is called "Sleep" and includes such images as Eliot baking bread and "Mr. Chaplin weeeping." The protagonist consumes bread, coffee, and cigarettes for every meal until he runs out of bread, forcing him to contemplate asking an old man feeding pigeons for bread crumbs. At one point, the protagonist goes to the Y.M.C.A. to compose an (*) Application for Permission to Live. This story ends with the protagonist lamenting having sold his books and then apparently dying after polishing a shiny penny he earlier found in a gutter. Its title is the Depression-era tune the protagonist's mind hums at several points. For 10 points, name this William Saroyan short story whose title refers to a song about a circus performer.
"The Daring Young Man on the Flying Trapeze"
7

132519-)
This author wrote a short poem addressing the titular object as a "meagre flower, thin,/ sparse of leaf, " as well as a feminist reinterpretation of the origins of the Trojan War. In addition to "The Sea Rose" and Helen in Egypt, this author wrote a more famous poem in which a nymph addresses the sea, urging it to "Splash your great pines/On our rocks." She briefly served as the literary editor of The Egoist, which published (*) Joyce's Ulysses and other works of modernist fiction, and one of her most famous novels contains a semi-autobiographical depiction of her intimate relationship with Frances Gregg. The author of the novel HERmione, FTP, name this American writer, who may be best known for her association with Ezra Pound and the Imagist poets.
Hilda Doolittle [accept H.D.]
7

132526-)
The protagonist of this novel imagines a naked man standing on a beach waiting for a bird to fall from the sky while listening to the Farvival twins play piano, but imagines nothing after listening to Mademoiselle Reisz play. One character is derided for moving to the "pigeon house" and going to races with Mrs. Highcamp. A dinner party is ruined when Victor sings a song that reminds the protagonist of her lover. Alcee (*) Arobin has an affair with the protagonist who vacations on Grand Isle where she meets Robert Lebrun. This novel centers on a woman married to Leonce who eventually drowns herself in the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, name this novel about the sexual genesis of Edna Pontellier by Kate Chopin.
The Awakening
7

132547-)
Early in this work, the main character considers a proposal from Stewart Snyder, and one character in this novel marries Raymond Wutherspoon. Wutherspoon's sister Juanita is a member of the Jolly Seventeen club, and also participates in a staging of The Girl from Kankakee. Other characters include Percy Bresnahan, a wealthy automobile magnate whose status the protagonist initially admires, and* Miles Bjornstrom, an atheist handyman who eventually marries Bea. The main character finds herself increasingly dissatisfied with the actions of the Thanatopsis Club in this novel, and, while her husband dallies with Maud Dryer, she begins an affair with Erik Valborg. The protagonist finds herself unhappy with her husband Will and small town life in, for ten points, what Sinclair Lewis novel about Gopher Prarie resident Carol Kennicott.
Main Street
7

132568-)
Early in this book, the narrator notes that his duties include carrying the main character's old dog to the front porch for a photo op. The main characters are often driven by a man who likes shooting at targets with his .38 special, an Irishman named Sugar Boy. Another character is a man "nobody can trust and you know it," as described in Slade's Bar, named Tiny Duffy. Characters often find it significant that the main character is married to a schoolteacher. The main plot begins when news arrives that Callahan has been endorsed by Judge Irwin, leading to the narrators search for bribes in the Judge's past to help the campaign of his boss. For 10 points, name this book narrated by Jack Burden about the rise of Willie Stark to become Governor, written by Robert Penn Warren.
All the King's Men
7

132593-)
He abandons his short-lived plans to flee to Sweden in his first published book, the memoir If I Die in a Combat Zone, Box Me Up and Ship Me Home. Â The title character's trek to Paris is revealed to be the imaginings of Paul Berlin in this author's novel Going After Cacciato. Â This author's most famous work is a collection of short stories, the last of which tells the story of his childhood love, Linda, who died of brain cancer. Â In another of those stories, "Speaking of Courage," Norman Bowker drives around the lake in his hometown thinking of (*) Kiowa's death. Â The collection is titled after its first story, which is told primarily from the point of view of First Lieutenant Jimmy Cross, who obsesses over a girl back home named Martha. Â It also includes extensive lists including items ranging from comic books and M&amp;M's to M-79 grenade launchers. Â For 10 points, name this American Vietnam War veteran and author of The Things They Carried.
Tim O'Brien
7

132609-)
In one of this author's short stories, a Debussy nocturne is played on the title object to please a sick young musician. That postapocalyptic work is set in a small cave that is home to Dr. Jenkins. This author of "The Portable Phonograph" wrote the semi-autobiographical novel The City of Trembling Leaves four years before penning a novel in which Curt falls off a cliff to his death while hunting a certain creature. The title creature of that work was a black(*) panther that had haunted the dreams of Joe Sam and killed Arthur Bridges. Another novel by this man sees news of the death of Kinkaid cause Major Tetley to lead a mob to lynch Donald Martin outside the town of Bridger's Wells. For 10 points, identify this author of The Track of the Cat, who pioneered the modern Western with his novel The Ox-Bow Incident.
Walter van Tilburg Clark
7

132613-)
At one point in this poem, the speaker recites an "old rhyme" that goes "Under the tree, / When fire outdoors burns merrily, / There the witches are making tea." One epigraph to this poem notes that "as the Celestial Fire drives away dark spirits, so also this our fire of Wood doth the same" and is taken from Cornelius Agrippa's Occult Philosophy. Its speaker's mother tells of how her great-uncle was nearly scalped in an Indian attack, while the schoolmaster plays with the central family's cat and tells stories about Dartmouth. After waking and going(*) outside, its speaker tells of how "Around the glistening wonder bent / The blue walls of the firmament", describing the scene before him as "No cloud above, no earth below, -- A universe of sky and" a certain substance. Â For 10 points, identify this work subtitled "A Winter Idyl", a poem about the aftereffects of a storm written by John Greenleaf Whittier.
"Snow-Bound: A Winter Idyl"
7

132636-)
The protagonist of this novel makes eleven dollars a week and bread or cake if he wants at Donner's Bakery and worries that he failed a Rorschach test because he needs new glasses. He begins a purely sexual relationship with his neighbor Fay, but she breaks it off near the end of this novel. The protagonist takes classes at Beekman College Center, where he is Miss Kinnian's best student. The word "progress" is spelled incorrectly until the seventh report on March 11 in this novel and the protagonist loses in a race through a(*) maze with the title character. At the height of his intelligence, he discovers a flaw in Nemur and Strauss's research that will cause him to revert back to his original mental state. At the end of the novel, he commits himself to Warren State Home with a final request to place a gift on the grave of a mouse. For 10 points, identify this Daniel Keyes novel about Charlie Gordon whose IQ is increased dramatically but eventually decreases.
Flowers for Algernon
7

132660-)
One of this man's novels contains a story about an enslaved African prince, who is killed for setting a curse on the crops of his owner, Jose Martinez. This man used his unpublished story, "Bibi," as the basis for that tale of the rebellion of Bras-Coupe. In another of his novels, the pirate Ursin Lemaitre converts himself into an upright banker named Vignevielle in order to marry the(*) half-black Olive. In this man's most famous novel, Agricola Fusilier wins the estate Fausse Riviere in a card game, then kills his opponent in a duel for accusing him of cheating; that duel sets up the interfamilial conflict which hinders Honore from marrying Aurora Nancanou. For 10 points, name this "local-color" author, who depicted New Orleans in Madame Delphine, Old Creole Days, and The Grandissimes.
George Washington Cable
7

132726-)
This poet wrote about a figure who "lies in a crystal casket" and who "was once revered in Egypt" in the poem "Dead Cleopatra".  He also described a figure "who came to us, with basilisk eyes so ominous" in a poem which contains the lines, "then poets forgot their (**) jeweled words and cut the sky with glittering swords."  He wrote "The Vampire", as well as a poem whose speaker says, "I have seen your fingers hold this glass" after claiming, "bread I broke with you was more than bread."  That poem is "Music I (*) Heard".  He included the line, "we live for small horizons" in a section entitled "The House of Dust" from his "Deceitful Portrait", Palimpsest.  This author also wrote a work which fictionalizes T.S. Eliot as The Tsetse and Ezra Pound as Rabbi Ben Ezra and which relates how he found the bodies of his parents after his father killed his mother and committed suicide.  For 10 points, name this author of Ushant.
Conrad Aiken
9

132748-)
One character in this play muses that if he had the power to stop time, he would go to Akron and hold a pretty woman's hand while saying "Poor thing, poor, poor thing."Minor characters include the taxi driver E.J. Lofgren and an orderly named Duane Wilson. The protagonist first meets the title character after helping the drunken Ed Hickey into a taxi. The protagonist in this play has a niece named Myrtle Mae. The most famous line in this play comes when a taxi driver notes the protagonist will become "a perfectly normal human being, and you know what bastards they are!", prompting the protagonist's sister Veda to call off a planned procedure at a sanitarium. For 10 points, name this Pulitzer winning play by Mary Chase about Elwood P. Dowd and his best friend, an invisible rabbit.
Harvey
9

132765-)
In a 1947 Zoltan Korda film, this character is played by Robert Preston, although Gregory Peck got the top billing. This character is first seen asking how much to tip a mess boy for providing three gimlets, and another character muses that this figure is a "four-letter man as well as a bloody coward." This character has knowledge in motorcycles, sex in books, dogs, and "too many books," but does hold a number of big-game fishing records. At the end of the story he appears in, Robert Wilson says he had begun to like this character before he is killed. While maligned for his actions involving a lion, this character dies shortly after shooting a buffalo when he is shot by his wife Margot. For 10 points, name this literary character, whose "short happy life" is described in a story by Ernest Hemingway.
Francis Macomber [accept either]
9

132771-)
He is first introduced to the narrator when the title character takes him to lunch at a restaurant near Blackwell's Island (**). The narrator says of this character that "it never occurred to me that one man could...play with the faith of fifty million people". Similarities to his real-life (*) counterpart are evident in his apparent involvement in the criminal underworld of the 1920s. He also possesses a set of cufflinks that are made of the "finest specimens of human molars."  Inspired by Arnold Rothstein, this is, for ten points, what "small, flatnosed Jew", a character in The Great Gatsby who fixed the 1919 World Series?
Meyer Wolfsheim (Accept either underlined answer)
9

132827-)
One of this author's characters tells a priest that she keeps mannequins in her house because they cannot lie.An essay by this author begins by claiming that the Cinderella story is America's national myth. That essay goes on to describe the author's discomfort and disillusionment as he wakes up in a first-class hotel suite. At the beginning of a play by this man, a woman mocks a piece of silk, saying, "This color for a shirt for a man?" This man created a character who claims that he "didn't go to the moon," but much further, "because time is the longest distance between places." This author wrote "The Catastrophe of (*) Success," as well as a play in which a condom falls out of a man's pocket and an Italian-American widow rediscovers love upon meeting the truck driver Alvaro. In another play by this author, a woman is given the nickname "Blue Roses" by a Gentleman -Caller. For 10 points, name this American playwright of The Rose Tattoo and The Glass Menagerie.
Tennessee  Williams
8

132856-)
This narrator of this story refuses to name his wife's former lover because "he was the childhood sweetheart, and what more does he want?" One character in this story buried his wife with half of a twenty-peso coin and kept the other half. This story's narrator asks whether that wife was a "Negro" because "Beulah" is "a name for a colored woman." In this story, the narrator's wife passes out on the sofa with her thigh exposed, but her husband chooses not to adjust her pink robe. One character in this story repeatedly lifts his beard and lets it fall and corresponds with the narrator's wife via (*) tape recordings. The central characters of this story share a joint after eating a large meal. While viewing a television program, this story's narrator fails to describe the title object and lets his guest, Robert, hold his hand while he draws it instead. For 10 points, name this Raymond Carver story about a couple who host a blind man who doesn't know what the title building looks like.
"Cathedral"
8

132871-)
Joseph Brodsky's poem about one of these animals in the Connecticut Valley ends with the image of children "swarm[ing] out of doors" and "crying with a loud shout in English, 'Winter's here!'" One of these creatures states that "there is no sophistry in my body" and claims it "took the whole of Creation to produce my foot" in a dramatic monologue. The speaker of a poem about these animals gives one "the lead gift in the twilight," though he would "sooner, except the penalties, kill a man than" (*) one of these animals. That poem exemplifies the poet's principle of inhumanism and notes how "the broken pillar of the wing jags from the clotted shoulder" of one of these birds. The wings of one of these birds "hold all creation in a weightless quiet," but "in his own time" it "meets the weather coming from the wrong way" and is "hurled upside down" by a storm. For 10 points, name these subjects of a Robinson Jeffers poem about "hurt" ones and a Ted Hughes poem about one "in the rain."
hawks [prompt on  birds]
8

132881-)
The seventh and final section of a poem dedicated to these people begins, "At last. I come to the last defense." That poem by John Wieners ends, "It is my life you save. The poem is done." A Muriel Rukeyser poem titled for these people is set in "the cave with a long-ago flare" and describes a woman using "red twig, black twig, brown twig." A man of this type says, "It was too much," in order to explain the lone word "SARDINES" in a poem whose speaker writes poems called "ORANGES" that never mention the color orange. That poem by (*) Frank O'Hara explains why he is not one of these people. A Spanish one of them is said to have understood the "people of the world" exactly as they became "suffering humanity" in a poem by Lawrence Ferlinghetti. John Ashbery wrote about one of these people showing his "right hand bigger than the head" in his poem, "Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror." For 10 points, name these members of a profession that includes Goya and Parmigianino.
painters [prompt on "artists"]
8

132913-)
An essay from Cynthia Ozick's Fame &amp; Folly discusses how this author was haunted by his father's vision of a "damnÃ¨d shape squatting invisible to me," which helped shape this author's understanding of the "sacred terror." In a novel by this author, two characters go on a secret date by taking a tour of the local university, where they admire a memorial to students who died in the Civil War. In another novel by this author, a rich shoemaker's son named Mitchy marries Aggie while his true love goes to live as Mr. Longdon's ward rather than marrying. In that work by this author, (*) Vanderbank gives up on marrying Nanda Brookenham because she is too modern. This author created the aged Miss Birdseye, who acts as a mentor for two characters in a novel that popularized the term for two cohabiting women. In that novel, Basil Ransom quarrels with the suffragette Olive Chancellor over the affections of Verena. For 10 points, name this author of The Awkward Age and The Bostonians. 
Henry James
8

132917-)
In one poem, this writer cautioned that "steps must be gentle" in a space where "it is all hung by an invisible white hair" that "trembles as birch limbs webbing the air." The speaker of that poem predicts that he would stumble as he leads the title figure "by the hand through much of what she would not understand." This poet wrote that "silent answers crept across the stars" in a work that claims that "compass, quadrant and sextant contrive no farther tides." The first section of his best-known work asks the addressee to "descend and of the curveship lend a myth to God." In a poem that opens, "There are no (*) stars tonight but those of memory," this poet wrote about objects pressed "into a corner of the roof" that belonged to his "mother's mother." In another poem this author of "My Grandmother's Love Letters" wrote, "this fabulous shadow only the sea keeps," about the grave of another writer. For 10 points, name this poet of "At Melville's Tomb" and a long poem entitled The Bridge. 
Hart Crane
8

132941-)
This work dismisses a topic written about by Jarrolds and Mr. Bechhofer Roberts as "only interesting from a sociological and perhaps a legal point of view." This essay uses an anecdote about a man crossing the Atlantic with his mistress dressed as a boy to discuss "episodes that no novelist would dare to make up." A "little man of the professional class" is offered as the perfect candidate for the title kind of action. This essay contrasts "our Elizabethan period," roughly 1850 to 1925, with the "false values of the American film," which it argues inspired Elizabeth Jones and Karl Hulten. This work opens in second-person with a man reading (*) News of the World on a Sunday afternoon. It identifies nine cases that have stood the test of time, many of them connected by poison, and compares them to the recent "Cleft Chin" case, all while placing Jack the Ripper in a class by himself. For 10 points, name this essay by George Orwell about how "you never seem to get a good [homicide] nowadays." 
"Decline of the English Murder"
8

132947-)
The portico of a house in this novel was poorly designed, so that its columns are suspended a foot above the foundation. After accidentally shooting a hunter, one character bribes the slave Aggy with a visit from "Sant a Claus." A dog named Brave dies saving two women in this novel from a panther. A butler in this novel constantly speaks in nautical terms and annoys the housekeeper Remarkable Pettibone. In addition to Benny Pump, this novel's characters include Hiram Doolittle, who forces the woodsman Billy Kirby to help arrest a man for shooting a (*) deer out-of-season. In this novel, Indian John dies after setting the mountainside on fire, and an old man is brought out of a cave and revealed to be Major Effingham. First published but fourth chronologically in its series, this novel ends with Oliver Edwards marrying Elizabeth and Natty Bumppo leaving for the prairie. For 10 points, name this novel by James Fenimore Cooper about Marmaduke Temple, the founder of a frontier town.
The  Pioneers, or, the Sources of the Susquehanna
8

132962-)
In a story by this author, two brothers find a pair of goggles in a ship graveyard that lets them see the ghosts of sea animals. In that story, Timothy and Wallow try to find their sister, lost at sea while riding a sled made from the exoskeleton of a crab. Another of her stories follows Clyde and Magreb, a couple living in Italy who find that the titular fruits are getting less effective at relieving their thirst for blood. This author of "Haunting Olivia" wrote about a girl who goes through the Eye of the Needle to elope with Louis Thanksgiving's ghost. That girl appears in a novel in which Kiwi works as a janitor and then as a pilot at The World of (*) Darkness, and the Bird Man tricks Ava into going to a fake underworld with him, where he rapes her. This author of the short story collection Vampires in the Lemon Grove wrote a finalist for the winnerless 2012 Pulitzer Prize. For 10 points, name this Floridian author of a novel in which Chief Bigtree runs an alligator-based theme park, Swamplandia!. 
Karen Russell
8

132976-)
Dr. Kislyany treats two characters suffering from this condition in a short story written as a flashback from a plane ride, on which Alexander soils his pants and is rebuked by the other passengers. This medical condition is the subject of David Benioff's short story "Merde for Luck." A mysterious epidemic of this condition sets in motion the events of a work in which Felix Turner dies from it, while the polio survivor Emma Brookner tries to study it. The lawyer Ben declines to help his brother Ned Weeks fight this condition in that play, (*) Larry Kramer's The Normal Heart. A character tells about how a healing fountain was created in Jerusalem where a being named Bethesda walked in the epilogue of a work about this condition, in which a sufferer of it meets the ghost of Ethel Rosenberg. That play is split into sections called "Millennium Approaches" and "Perestroika." For 10 points, name this condition that Roy Cohn and Prior Walter suffer from in Tony Kushner's Angels in America.
AIDS [accept  HIV infection]
8

132989-)
A poem by this author describes the "fetish face beneath French parasols / of brass and orange velvet" possessed by King Anthracite. One of his poems begins with the string of verbs, "Runs falls rises stumbles on from darkness to darkness," and describes a wanted poster of a woman who turns her pistol on the speaker, saying "dead folks can't jaybird talkÂ… you keep on going now or die." In two poems, this author, who studied under (*) Auden at the University of Michigan, adopted the perspective of a slave on the Underground Railroad and of a Spaniard aboard the Amistad. The speaker of his most famous poem asks "What did I know, What did I know / of love's austere and lonely offices?," humbled by his father getting up early to work on the day of rest. For 10 points, name this black poet of "Runagate Runagate," "Middle Passage," and "Those Winter Sundays."
Robert Hayden
9

133009-)
The narrator of this work blames another character for eating a Milky Way Bar while in Cairo. Another of its characters pulls out her eyebrows with Kress Tweezers. In a confrontational scene, one of this work's main characters is compared to Annie Flo, who "went to the grave denying the facts of life."  This work ends with its narrator asserting that using fingers as ear plugs will be the easiest way to refuse to listen if necessary. The central character is angered when another character throws one-inch (*) firecrackers that go off at 6:30 in the morning. Eventually, this work's narrator unplugs an electric oscillating fan, collects a pillow and a charm bracelet, thus establishing the title condition, because she was tattled on for talking about Papa-Daddy's beard. The narrator of this work, Sister, moves out of the house because of her family's preference for Stella-Rondo. For 10 points, name this story by Eudora Welty, whose protagonist lives at a mailroom.
"Why I Live at the P.O."
7

133018-)
This man meditated on the spirit of Ludwig Richter in "Chaos in Motion and Not in Motion." Another meditation on aesthetics by this man casts the poet as the maker of individual freedom, which is contrasted with the ideas of the titular figure Â– that poem is called "Sketch of the Ultimate Politician." The speaker of another poem reflects on the "inhuman birth" of Jove and the birth of Christ with "our blood, commingling, virginal" and asks, "Shall our blood fail?" The speaker of that poem repeats "Death is the mother of beauty." That poem by this man  begins by describing (*) "complacencies of the peignoir, and late/Coffee and oranges in a sunny chair." The first two poems are found in this author's Transport to Summer, which  also contains a manifesto and poem dedicated to Henry Church, "Notes Towards a Supreme Fiction." For 10 points, identify this American poet of "Sunday Morning" and "The Emperor of Ice Cream."
Wallace Stevens
7

133042-)
This author popularized Camara Laye in the Western World by authoring the preface to his novel The Radiance of the King, which the preface claims is about "Africa's Africa." The essay "Disturbing Nurses and the Kindness of Sharks" contains this writer's critique that Hemmingway's The Garden of Eden casts African-Americans as "tontos" who serve the "lone ranger." In addition to writing What Moves at the Margin and a book about "whiteness in the literary imagination" called Playing in the Dark, she wrote a novel in which Rosemary Villanucci insults two characters who are going to work at Zick's Coal Company. Another novel by this writer features a character with a "chokecherry tree" on her back, and another character that has a "tobacco tin heart" that is opened after a sexual encounter. In that novel, Halle buys his mother from the Garners and Paul D leaves the protagonist after he is seduced by the title character. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Sethe in her novel Beloved.
Toni Morrison or Chloe Ardelia Wofford
7

133072-)
One work by this author criticizes the San Francisco City Hall as the "golden whore's dream of paradise" and describes a city hall meeting in which Ronnie tells the mayor "thang, that's the word for 'thing' in African." That work by this author describes the injustices of a poverty program, which are exemplified by an indifferent dude named Chaser. Barbara Walters and Otto Preminger's presence at a party hosted by Leonard Bernstein is the subject of another essay by this author. In addition to writing "Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers" and "Radical Chic," this man wrote another work whose chapter "The Unspoken Thing" describes the central group's inherent distrust of words. That work describes the central group's visits to Big Sur and meeting with Neal Cassady and other luminaries while traveling aboard the "Furthur." For 10 points, identify this author who told the tale of Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters in his The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test and who wrote The Bonfire of the Vanities.
Tom Kennerly Wolfe (only idiots confuse this Tom Wolfe with Thomas Clayton Wolfe, so just take Wolfe or even Thomas Wolfe as that is his real name)
7

133081-)
One work by this man describes his son Christopher, who says "I am a fisherman. I fish for fish," which causes the narrator to realize that the metal rod Christopher is playing with is also shaped like a fish. After philosophizing about Parmenides, that work by this man asks the question "And if we are really living in the Roman Empire, somewhere in Syria, why do we see the United States?" That speech argues that "when time ends ... for the first time, a real bird will sing." In addition to that speech delivered from Disneyland, called "How to Build a Universe that Doesn't Fall Apart Two Days Later," this man wrote a novel about a drug called KR-3, which is abused by Alys, who is able to remember the singer Jason Taverner. For 10 points, identify this author of "Flow my Tears, the Policeman Said," a science fiction author who also wrote "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?"
Philip Dick
7

133088-)
In one work by this author, a descendant of Francis Scott Key and a descendant of Edgar Allen Poe attempt to construct a novel but conclude that they themselves are fictional characters. Another novel by this man describes the six tales, which begin from the age of seven and continue until the protagonist marries Jane Pryce and Julie Moore. That novel is about Simon Baylor, who is smuggled into an Arabian Castle where he speaks to Sinbad the Sailor. This man also wrote about Todd Andrews, who decides not to kill himself after an explosion fails to go off on the title imaginary showboat. Another of this author's protagonists abandons an epic poem after being forced to work for Henry Warren and learning that Joan Toast acquired smallpox. For 10 points, name this author who wrote The Floating Opera and fictionalized the life of Ebenezer Cooke in The Sot-Weed Factor.
John Barth
7

133118-)
17. Scofield Thayer revived this organization along with James Sibley Watson; in its first form, this organization lasted for only four years. In a work called "The Editors to the Reader," the creators of this organization argued this entity is the Garden itself, and that its goal is to measure how much sunlight can enter it. This organization grew out of its founders' discontent with Christian Disciple and Christian Examiner, and its various leaders have included George Ripley and Margaret Fuller, who published The Great Lawsuit while leading this publication. A later incarnation first published T.S. Eliot's The Wasteland in the Americas, as well as William Butler Yeats's The Second Coming. For 10 points, identify this literary magazine which was used extensively by the Transcendentalists during the late 19th century.
The Dial
7

133147-)
One poem by this author describes a man "who lived a life of fire" that saw his "orange purple" glow, but when he died he realized "that he had not lived." Another of this man's poems describes a figure who once said "I know the way, -- come" but he confesses "I am lost" at the poem's end. Those two poems appear in this author's 1895 poetry collection, whose first poem describes a "clang and clang of hoof and heel, wild shouts and the wave of hair." Another poem, published in 1899, sees the narrator use the title statement to tell a maiden "your lover threw wild hands toward the sky and the affrighted steed ran on alone." Another poem by this man, sometimes called "In the Desert," describes a "naked, bestial" creature that enjoys heating his own bitter heart. For 10 points, identify this author of "War is Kind" and the poetry collection The Black Riders and Other Lines, who also wrote "The Bride comes to Yellow Sky."
Stephen Crane
7

133177-)
13. The title character of this work offers china painting classes for a few years, and one of its central characters is theorized to be a pauper, who would "know the old thrill and the despair of a penny more or less." The townsfolk in this work gossip about the relevance of the purchase of a men's toilet set. It ends with the image of a long strand of iron gray hair. In the second part of this story, four men break into the cellar of a house and sprinkle lime in it. Its central character is able to drive away tax collectors by telling them that the Colonel explained she owed no taxes in Jefferson. In another part, the title character asks a drugger for arsenic, which she uses to kill Homer Barron. For 10 points, name this short story in which the townspeople of Jackson discover that a recently deceased woman had been sleeping next to the corpse of her lover for years, written by William Faulkner.
"A Rose for Emily"
7

133202-)
In Edward Taylor's "Days of Pie and Coffee," Sithney sums up his days by saying "I've missed too many" of these objects. A different poem titled after one of these objects describes "traitors, lost to every sense of shame, unjust supporters of a tyrant's claim" and ends by describing "his last efforts more than damn the first." That poem is split into two cantos, the first of which is "The Capture" and begins in Philadelphia, where the author writes "Assist me, Clio!" Senegalese poet Phylis Wheatley acquired her given American name when she was named after another of these objects. A different poet describes another one of these objects that "no more shall feel the victor's treat or know the conquered knee." That one of these things "long has it waved on high, and many an eye has danced to see." For 10 points, Freneau described a British prison type of what object, an example of which is "Old Ironsides?"
ships or boats or any equivalents (take more specific answers like, British prison ship or the USS Constitution)
7

133219-)
This author created a work in which Kathleen's family does not let her boyfriend step in the house, and in that work a hotel worker reminisces about taking a photograph alongside Khrushchev.  This author also wrote of a man who falls in love with Rosa Valladeres and moves to Europe, after which he is imprisoned at Buchenwald because his name is Israel Levis. In another work by this author of Our House in the Last World, the main character's brother writes "Beautiful Maria of My Soul," and the protagonist remembers having sex with Vanna Vane in the Hotel Splendour during the 1950s. In that work, Cesar remembers the day he and his brother appeared on an episode of I Love Lucy. For 10 points, identify this Cuban-American author of A Simple Havana Melody and The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love.
Oscar Hijuelos
7

133240-)
This work's author removed a scene that would have been between Acts II and III, in which a female character shows another the wound on her abdomen and the pin-shaped injuries on her leg; that scene dramatically ends with the male lead calling that character a "murderous bitch."  In an early scene in this work, one character arrives with heavy books of religion which are "weighted with authority." Near the end of Act I, a minor character named Ann is asked whether or not it is natural for a woman to lose seven children on the first day after childbirth. Another scene sees one character recite "thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image," twice, forgetting that there is a commandment against adultery. John Hale appears at its beginning as an expert, and this work ends with Danforth trying to extract a confession. This play sees Judge John Hathorne preside  as Giles Corey refuses to plead guilty or not guilty. Beginning shortly after Abigail Williams and John Proctor had an affair, for 10 points, name this retelling of the Salem Witch Trials by Arthur Miller.
The Crucible
7

133252-)
Sam Greenlee's protagonist Dan Freeman plays football for Michigan State before becoming the first black man to join this organization. One novel that features disgruntled members of this organization involves the getaway driver Frank Vasquez and the conniving Raymo, both of whom work for ex-Group 4 members Win Everett and TJ Mackey. Another novel narrated by a member of this organization features the "Alpha File" and the "Omega File". That novel follows a man who had fallen in love with Kittredge and who just learned that his mentor Hugh Montague had died, before he travels to Russia to read about his own life. This organization that employed Harry Hubbard in the novel Harlot's Ghost also appears in another work of fiction wherein Nicholas Branch is commissioned to write a "secret history" of this organization. For 10 points, Libra reimagines Lee Harvey Oswald to be working for ex-members of what covert organization?
Central Intelligence Agency
7

133270-)
This author's fiction includes a story about a retired chemistry teacher named Stryker who shoots the title snapping turtles, as well as a satire of the Van Dorens that includes Bunk of the Bunch Club. Though those stories are two of the six Memoirs of Hecate County, he is better known for his literary chronicles, which include The Shores of Light and The Bit Between My Teeth. This thinker titled one of his books after a fictional recluse who abandons his Rosicrucian studies and loves Sara. That work, titled after a work of Villiers de l'Isle-Adam, is a study of symbolism in the early 20th century. Another work by this man treats the writings of figures like Frederick Law Olmstead, Alexander Stephens, and Ulysses Grant in the context of sub-titular conflict. For 10 points, identify this American literary critic who wrote Axel's Castle and Patriotic Gore.
Edmund Wilson
7

133298-)
One scene in this novel details a visit to Carlsbad Caverns, where a foreign dignitary is shown EPICAC XIV, a supercomputer managing the whole economy. In another scene, the protagonist is on trial for treason, but is forced to answer questions about his powerful father truthfully because he is wearing a lie detector. After hearing about Lasher's son committing suicide because he did not want to join the "Reeks and Wrecks," its protagonist seeks to join the Ghost Shirt Society with Ed Finnerty. Interpolating the visits of the Shah of Bratpuhr's visit to the United States, this novel set post-World-War-III features a society where engineers have constructed automata that displace the need for manual labor. For 10 points, identify this novel about Paul Proteus, the first work of Kurt Vonnegut.
Player Piano
7

133312-)
This man's first poetry collection is titled after Santayana's defense of Lucretius, and he delivered lectures for the public at the National Gallery in 1992, which were collected as On the Laws of the Poetic Art. Although this man's early work The Summoning of Stones is a meditation on the role of the poet, he established his cultured voice in such collections as Millions of Strange Shadows and The Venetian Vespers. From 1982 Â– 1984 this man served as Poet Laureate of the United States, replacing Anne Sexton. His last collection The Darkness and the Light revisits his fondness for writing about the Holocaust; years before that he published a poem dedicated to Heinrich Blucher and Hannah Arendt that takes its title from Goethe's last words, "More Light, More Light!" He began another of his poems "So there stood Matthew Arnold and this girl with the cliffs of England crumbing away behind them." For 10 points, identify this American poet who wrote "Dover Bitch."
Anthony Evan Hecht
7

133327-)
One of this man's essays ends by asking the reader to build altars to "Beautiful Necessity" and "Blessed Unity" and offers a solution to the "mysteries of life" by suggesting that the title force is a limitation to social justice. In addition to writing the political essay "Fate," this man argued against the benefits of a Historical Christianity in a speech that also attacked the traditional and limited way of using the mind of Christ. This man argued that the "self-culture" of Americans and their fear of self-travelling allows for the veneration of the idols of Italy, England, and Egypt. That essay champions the title concept by claiming virtues are the exception rather than the rule. This man delivered the "Divinity School Address" and wrote an essay that claims "A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds" and claims "to be great is to be misunderstood." For 10 points, identify this philosopher and author essays such as "Nature" and "Self-Reliance."
Ralph Waldo Emerson
7

133338-)
In this essay, the author describes being visited by a high school classmate who claims to be a member of the "Dickless Tracys," a group of female private detectives. While driving a Rent-A-Car from Sacramento to San Francisco, the speaker of this essay blasts the radio to avoid remembering the phrase "petals on a wet black bough." This essay's opening paragraph contains statements like "the princess is caged in the consulate" and "the man with the candy will lead the children into the sea." This essay includes a reprint of the author's (*) psychiatric report from her hospitalization for vertigo. The title essay of a collection that includes "Notes Toward a Dreampolitik" and a set of essays about the "California Republic," this work describes a recording session by The Doors and the author's friendship with Linda Kasabian, a witness testifying against the Manson Family. It opens, "We tell ourselves stories in order to live." For 10 points, name this Joan Didion essay named for a Beatles album. 
"The  White Album"
8

133370-)
One of this author's poems describes a plantation as a place where "Stygian paintings light and shade renew pictures of hell, that Virgil's pencil drew." That anti-slavery work by this poet begins, "If there exists a hell the case is clear, [the title person's] slaves enjoy that portion here." In another work by this poet, a man says, "If that was purgatory, this is hell" about a location that is described as a "slaughter-house, yet hospital in name." Another of his works ends, (*) "And Reason's self shall bow the knee to shadows and delusions here." The speaker of that poem states, that "in spite of all the learned have said, I still my old opinion keep." This poet of "To Sir Toby" wrote a six-canto diatribe about his imprisonment on the HMS Jersey. He wrote that "the hunter still the deer pursues" in a poem inspired by a culture's practice of burying corpses sitting-down. For 10 points, name this poet of The British Prison Ship and "The Indian Burying Ground," the "Poet of the American Revolution."
Philip  Freneau
8

133381-)
A speech given in this novel repeatedly references Moses shouting, "Let my people go!" and the speaker later concludes the speech was too literary for his audience. That man fails to kill this novel's villain after throwing a pipe bomb obtained from the saloon-keeper Caraher through a window. One chapter of this work cuts back and forth between a lavish dinner party thrown by the Gerards and scenes of Mrs. Hooven starving to death on the streets. The first half of this novel ends with a duel between Delaney and (*) Annixter, who hosts a dance in his barn in the hopes of wooing Hilma Tree. An epic poem called the "Song of the West" is abandoned in favor of a socialistic poem called "The Toilers" by Presley, arguably this work's protagonist. Much of this novel is set on the Quien Sabe and Los Muertos ranches, where Magnus Derrick leads a league of ranchers against the title entity. For10 points, name this first novel in the planned Epic of the Wheat trilogy, a work by Frank Norris about railroads. 
The  Octopus: A Story of California
8

133412-)
This poem's speaker feels a "fierce fire [crawling] about a thousand people" and hears "a thousand screams" when two ships sink after crashing at sea. That speaker is subjected to a power that shows her the "gossiping of friendly spheres" and "[t]he How and Why of all things," making her feel like a "fearful pawn." This poem caused a scandal after losing to an Orrick Johns work in a poetry contest held by The Lyric Year. Twice, this poem describes a "drenched and dripping apple-tree," soaked by a rain that "wash[es] my grave away from me." The speaker of this poem, which was written from Mt. Battie in (*) Camden, Maine, tries to touch the sky as Infinity descends on her. This poem's speaker imagines being buried in the ground and then being raised back out of it, and concludes that "he whose soul is flatÂ—the sky will cave in on him by and by." For 10 points, name this poem by Edna St. Vincent Millay that begins, "All I could see from where I stood was three long mountains and a wood."
"Renascence"
8

133440-)
In one of this author's plays, a prostitute named Myra dies during a German air raid as she lights a cigarette on a bridge. Earlier in that play, she accepts a marriage proposal from a naÃ¯ve Canadian soldier named Roy. This author of Waterloo Bridge also wrote a work in which Pittaluga hires an American named Don to put on winter sports activities for his guests. In that play, the male lead falls in love with a woman he believes to be a Russian countess from a previous romantic encounter and is the leader of a group of (*) blonde dancers. That play by this author ends with Harry and Irene deciding to stay in a Swiss hotel that gets bombed. The female lead of another play by this author is obsessed with Francois Villon and dreams of moving to France, which prompts Duke Mantee to murder Alan Squier. In that play, the Chisholm family becomes trapped at the Black Mesa BBQ. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Idiot's Delight and The Petrified Forest.
Robert Emmet  Sherwood
8

133467-)
One scene in this work takes place in a large pentagonal room whose entire southern face is occupied by a window made of an "immense sheet of unbroken glass from Venice" which is tinted with a "leaden hue."Â The epigraph to this work, which notes that God himself is "but a great will pervading all things by nature of its intentness," comes from Joseph Glanvill.Â This work includes a poem which describes a "gala night / Within the lonesome latter years" in which seraphs "sob at vermin fangs / In human gore imbued."Â That poem, which describes a play whose hero is "The (*)Â Conqueror Worm," is uttered by the title character just before she dies in a "dim and decaying city by the Rhine."Â The narrator of this work marries Lady Rowena Trevanion of Tremaine after the death of his first wife.Â For 10 points, name this story published in 1838 in which the narrator's dead second wife seems to be transformed into his revived first wife, a work by Edgar Allan Poe.
"Ligeia"
9

133479-)
The third stanza of this poem notes that "no mother suckled Jove" and asks if our blood, "comingling and virginal with heaven" will "fail, or shall it come to be the blood of paradise?"Â  A figure in this poem notes that she is content when birds "test the misty reality of fields before they fly".Â  This poem ends when pigeons sink "downward to darkness, (*) on extended wings," and it notes that "The tomb in Palestine is not the porch of spirits lingering." The seventh of its eight stanzas centers on a ring of sun-worshipers who "shall know well the heavenly fellowship/ Of men that perish," and this poem asks in another section "What is divinity if it can come/ Only in silent shadows and in dreams?" The female figure described in the work is told "Death is the mother of beauty," and is persuaded to prefer "Coffee and oranges in a sunny chair" to the "Dominion of the blood and sepulchre."Â  Championing the "Complacencies of the peignoir," for 10 points, name this poem which appeared in Harmonium, a work by Wallace Stevens.
"Sunday Morning"
9

133511-)
One character in this work is described as having eyes that are "dim with a morning expression of disillusionment" and regularly listens to the radio program "Taboo." Another character indulges his lust for a younger woman by fondling and smelling her scarf after she jokingly asks if he will kiss her goodbye, and in another scene Schubert's Ave Maria is played in the background as he surreptitiously watches her. The main character spends much of her time talking to her neighbor Mrs. Coffman, and she encourages the illicit affair between the young art school student Marie and her javelin-throwing lover. S. Epatha Merkerson played the main character in a 2008 revival of this play, which culminates in the drunken outburst of the chiropractor Doc Delaney. For ten points name this play in which Lola finally dreams about the death of the titular pet, a work by William Inge.
Come Back, Little Sheba
9

133520-)
In this novel's chapter "Myths," one character describes a legend of a knight whose idyllic love for a water nymph is destroyed when he attempts to wash a bloodstain in her fountain. The expression of another character's face inspires an artist to paint her in the act of discovering a spot of blood on her white robe. That character lives in a tower where she tends a flock of doves and the fire of a shrine to the Virgin Mary. Two characters in this novel are reconciled while meeting at the bronze statue ofÂ (*) Julius III in Perugia--one of those characters, the Count de Monte Beni, loses his animal sprightliness and becomes melancholy after throwing a monk off the Tarpeian Rock. This novel ends with Hilda agreeing to marry Kenyon, and begins with American artists comparing a vivacious Italian to a sculpture by Praxiteles. For 10 points, name this novel about a murder committed by Miriam and Donatello in Rome, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
TheÂ Marble Faun
9

133530-)
A ragpicker tells this character that if he could see God for a minute he would ask him "What did you have me in that crapgame down there for anyway?" His time searching for pearls on the French Broad River comes to an end when his lover Wanda is killed in rockslide. This character, whose twin brother was stillborn, marries a hill person girl while a student at the University of Tennessee. This character is roped into a scheme to blast tunnels under the town to rob its goods by a character known as the City Mouse who was earlier imprisoned for fucking watermelons. This friend of (*) Gene Harrogate narrowly recovers from typhoid fever and is given a lift by a friendly hitchhiker at the end of the novel in which he appears. That novel consists of his series of interactions with the residents of McAnally Flats, where he lives in a houseboat on the Tennessee River after abandoning his wife and infant son. For 10 points, name this reprobate title character of a Cormac McCarthy novel.
Cornelius Suttree
9

133558-)
1.	The protagonist of one of this author's works concludes that "The war is temporary. But drawings and chocolate go on forever," while another of this man's characters plays an instrument that works by pulling cats' tails and aspires to appear on the quiz show "Who Am I." Novels by this man include a retelling set in 1940 of the life of King Arthur and a work featuring Bill and six other workers in a Chinese baby food factory who regularly have sex with the title character. An iniquitous critique by one philosopher of another's disparagement of the novel Lucinde is the subject of another work by this man, who spoofed Life Magazine profiles in (*) "Robert Kennedy Saved from Drowning." That story, along with "The Balloon" and "The Indian Uprising," was collected in Unspeakable Practices, Unnatural Acts. A proponent of "dialogue-arias," this is, for 10 points, what author of Snow White whose other short story collections include City Life and Come Back, Dr. Caligari. 
Donald Barthelme 
9

133570-)
Robert Lowell noted a voice that was like "the crackling of thorns under a pot" in a poem about this author's death by drowning. A crash course in German at the urging of Thomas Carlyle helped this writer produce the first English translation of Eckermann's Conversations with Goethe, and this author included the short poem "To a Friend" in a catalogue of a journey west which also includes one of the first calls for preservation of Native American societies, A (*) Summer on the Lakes. The story of Orpheus's failed attempt to rescue Eurydice is used to evoke a future time when women can save men in an essay that also decries the clichÃ© that "every strong woman" is said to have "a masculine mind"; that essay, "The Great Lawsuit," was included in her later book Woman in the Nineteenth Century. Called by Emerson the "best-read person in all of New England," for 10 points, name this Transcendentalist writer best known for editing that movement's journal, The Dial. 
Margaret Fuller
9

133596-)
Minor characters in this work include the assistant manager at Keating and Bradley Sanitary Engineers, William Olafson, and a man who killed his abusive father and eventually jumps off a bridge, Bud Korpenning. Another character in this novel drunkenly marries the slatternly Pearline then dies after setting his own apartment on fire out of shame. That character, (*)Â Stan Emery, had previously knocked up a woman married to the homosexual actor John Oglethorpe. Events are set in motion in this novel after a train accident involving the milkman Gus McNiel, who later runs for mayor against his lawyer. The protagonist and his wife Ellen work for the Red Cross in Europe during World War I but drift apart upon their return, leading her to accept the proposal of the unscrupulous lawyer George Baldwin. Â Ending with the protagonist walking down a highway away from New York City, this is, for 10 points, what novel about the reporter Jimmy Herf by Jon Dos Passos?
Manhattan Transfer
9

133612-)
One character in this novel gives free haircuts at a mission after being abandoned by his wife, who poisoned his dog before leaving, while another character in this novel, Sandra, is found dead with parts of her face gnawed off by dogs.Â  Another character nostalgically recalls her time as a singer at the saloon where Oscar Reo tends bar, the Gilded Cage. The protagonist of this novel is seduced by a married woman who once wandered outside wearing only a hat, (*)Â Katrina Daugherty, and he travels for a time with the Vassar-educated former pianist Helen Archer.Â  The protagonist of this novel had gone into self-imposed exile after using his baseball-throwing skills to kill Howard Allen, a scab trolley conductor, by throwing a rock.Â  The central character of this novel accidentally dropped and killed Gerald, his infant son.Â  For 10 points, name this novel that sees Francis Phelan encounter ghosts, the third in the Albany SeriesÂ by William Kennedy.
Ironweed
9

133621-)
One character in this work expresses fear at being alone with another character and his big staff, which that character claims comes from Ygddrasil. The title character of this work visits the Cathedral of the Sacred Thorn in Cameliard in a chapter entitled "Efficacy of Prayer," and in a chapter about the "Economics of" the title character, he declines to sleep with a woman that he has been pursuing. At one point in this work, the title character is disappointed to learn that Helen is married to Achilles, but nevertheless goes to Pseudopolis, and in the next chapter that character marries the Hamadryad Chloris. In a chapter concerning "What Grandfather Satan Reported," the title character is surprised to learn that Satan's wife doesn't understand him either, and in the penultimate chapter, the title character trades the shirt of Nessus to Koschei the Deathless for the freedom of his wife, whose talking Koschei cannot stand. Set in the fictional realm of (*)Â Poictesme, for 10 points, identify this novel in which the title character visits the underworld in search of his wife Dame Lisa, the most famous work of James Branch Cabell.
Jurgen
9

133659-)
One character in this work says that God "has a cheap cabin in the country" and "likes lentil soup." This work quotes the first four lines of "Last night the nightingale woke me" in between one character saying that she played the mandolin and the narrator telling her not to kick her sister, who has an arthritic heart. The second section of this work ends with a letter stating that "the key is in the sunlight at the window". One section of this work asks "what have I left out . . . what have I forgotten" before saying (*) "farewell / with a long black shoe" and repeating the refrain "with your eyes."Â Â AtÂ the opening of this poem, the authorÂ  thinks, "Strange now to think of you, gone without corsets &amp; eyes,"Â and the phrase "Blessed be He!" appears numerous times in the "Hymmnn" which comes between two sections of this poem.Â This poem's last section alternates betweenÂ crows shrieking "caw caw caw"Â and the narrator repeating "Lord Lord Lord."Â Â For 10 points, name this long poem on the death of Naomi Ginsberg named by her son for the Jewish prayer for the dead.
"Kaddish"
9

133669-)
In a play by this author the title fourteen year old boy waits for his father on a hotel bench until he is sent into the world by the astrologer Cox, while in another work, an architect grows closer to his gay son after engaging in an affair with an animal named Sylvia. In addition toÂ MalcomÂ andÂ The Goat, this author wrote two one act plays meant to be performed together in which the title character wonders around aÂ (*) giant cube quoting from his Little Red Book. He wrote about a hospital receptionist who vows to ruin the career of an intern before the arrival of a dying blues singer inÂ The Death of Bessie Smith, while in another of his plays a man nicknamed "the penguin" is married to a woman whose attitudes at 26, 52, and 90 are represented by the characters A, B, and C. For 10 points name this playwright ofÂ SeascapeÂ andÂ Three Tall WomenÂ who wrote about George and Martha's marital problems inÂ Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf.
EdwardÂ Albee
9

133700-)
While standing in a doorway one of this work's character is compared to "Saint Sebastian waiting for the arrows," and that character removes his tie after feeling frustration "creep down his neck like a hot hand." Another character in this work nostalgically recalls Caroline, her nurse as a child, who raised her in a house owned by the Godhighs. A character dressed in a plaid suit and Tyrolean hat causes the climactic event of this work, which begins with a discussion of whether a ridiculous purple and green lady's hat should be returned to the store. That hat is later seen on Carver's mother, who takes exception when the narrator's mother attempts to give the boy a penny and clocks her with her pocketbook. For 10 points name this story in which Julian and his mother ride an integrated bus, the title work of a collection by Flannery O'Connor.
Everything That Rises Must Converge 
9

133733-)
This character was once caught washing her family's silverware thoroughly after they were used by a black woman and earlier held the supposedly coveted post of secretary to a high school soccer coach. She is adamantly opposed to the use of convertibles and the consumption of doughnuts for breakfast. She describes the narrator of the novel in which she appears as "Mr. Fly-Off-The-Handle" and when he leaves the room, she declares, "Hi Ho Silver, The Temper Tantrum Kid Rides Again." A man she once dated is a local mustard baron and one anecdote in the book in which she appears involves her nearly dying after an attractive insurance agent named Doyle convinces her to try lobster. Once nicknamed Big Red, this knife-wielder has a young a Israeli lookalike who makes the protagonist say, "It's no good. I can't get a hard-on in this place." For 10 points, name this wife of the ever-constipated Jake and object of massive Oedipus complex, a parent of a Philip Roth protagonist whose domineering personality leaves her son with the titular condition. 
Sophie Portnoy
9

133743-)
One character in this work has a sexual relationship with Miss Umeki Tsurigane, and Dr. Ganeshi Rao performs a disappearing act by practicing yoga in Kursaal. Another character has a close encounter with a Tazelworm while digging tunnels in the Alps, and has a sexual relationship with Ruperta Chirpingdon-Groin's dog Mouffette. Dr. Minkowski gives a guest lecture at Candlebrow University in this work, and the T.W.I.T. is involved in a search for Shambhala in Central Asia, where Lieutenant Halfcourt is stationed. Frank meets Sloat Fresno unexpectedly in a bar and kills him, though Deuce Kindred is still at large. Iceland spar creates double images in, for 10 points, what novel that also sees the travels of the Chums of Chance aboard the airship Inconvenience and the conflict between the Traverses and Scarsdale Vibe, a work by Thomas Pynchon? 
Against the Day 
9

133746-)
This writer wrote an introduction for the English translation of noted Giorgio di Chirico novel Hebdomeros. One of this man's poems begins by noting that Oedipus "liked the glad personal quality of things beneath the sky," while he asks "OK, but which ones?" in a poem that urges people to live "the way that philosophers live." In addition to composing "Syringa" and "My Philosophy of Life," he wrote a poem in which "the saxophone wails, the martini was drained, and night like black swansdown settled on the city" and also asks "If we wanted to leave, would being naked help us?" Along with writing "Hotel Lautreamont," this man wrote a sestina which ends when Popeye scratches his balls and notes that "it sure was pleasant to spend a day in the country." That poem is "Farm Implements and Rutabagas in a Landscape," but this man's most famous poem has a turning point after "A balloon pops" and "the attention turns dully away" and ends "Here and there in cold pockets of remembrance, whispers out of time." For ten points, identify this New York poet who wrote a poem titled after something done "As Parmigianino did it," Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.
John Ashbery
9

133766-)
One character in this work repeatedly mutters, "No foundation. All the way down the line," while another is constantly calling Elsie Mandelspiegel. In addition to Dudley R. Bostwick, this work features a character who expounds on the dichotomy between "workers" and "heels." Entertainers in this work include the Black piano player Wesley and the aspiring comedian Harry. Tom is puzzled upon being asked to buy toys for a former burlesque dancer, for whom the main character buys a bottle of champagne at the beginning of this play. A cowboy in this work claims to have fought a man with an iron claw and herded cattle with a bicycle, and the climax of this play comes when that character, Kit Carson, shoots the meddlesome vice cop Blick, who had entered the bar in which this play is set to pester the prostitute Kitty Duval. Set in Nick's Pacific Street Saloon, this is, for ten points, what play in which Joe claims that the title period should not be wasted on regrets, a work by William Saroyan?
The Time of Your Life 
9

133993-)
"Time holds up" this figure's "Heart against my eyes" after "the brown frock splits" and "down the pale flesh a gash / broadens."Â  After asking whether she is not ready, the speaker proclaims that she is and bids her to "Pass, / as shadow gathers shadow in the welling night" though "Fireflies of childhood torch" her down.Â  Later, the speaker "must pretend to leave" her because only she can "draw off / a benevolent phantom."Â  That poem begins by asking if she "moved not, restless, waiting for" "The (*) Governor your husband" who "lived so long."Â  The subject of an homage by John Berryman, she herself addressed an "ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain, / Who after birth dids't by my side remain" in her poem "The Author to Her Book."Â  For 10 points, name this early American poet who wrote the collection The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet (accept "Homage to Mistress Bradstreet" before mentioned)
9

134023-)
His wife comes back to him after she initially fails to get the correct white pill for her lover, whose "bum heart" is acting up. Â His son meets his long-lost illegitimate daughter, Annabelle Byers, in the middle of Hurricane Floyd, and endures a rocky marriage with Pru.Â  This character is called "Chuck" and made to read from the Narrative Life of Frederick Douglass by a potential son of Buchanan named Skeeter before his house (*) burns down, while his final appearance contains a flashback to a scene in which his ashes are accidentally left in a Comfort Inn.Â  In an earlier work, he sleeps with a youth named Jill after his wife leaves him for Charlie Stavros. Â This ex-husband of Janice once worked as a typesetter in Brewer, although he was earlier a high school basketball star. Â For 10 points, name this protagonist who "Runs" and "Is Rich" in a series of John Updike novels.
Harry "Rabbit" AngstromÂ [accept any underlined answer]
9

134031-)
In this novel, a device called "Magic Fingers" helps the protagonist go to sleep, while he is reminded of the lynching of a Polish man when he hears a song sung by a barbershop quartet known as the Four-eyed Bastards.Â  That man meets a 44-year old teacher from Indianopolis, Edgar Derby, in a prison camp, and is the target of a death threat from a car thief from Illinois after that criminal believes the protagonist to be responsible for the death of Roland (*) Weary.Â  Though the protagonist is married to Valencia Merble, he has a child with Montana Wildhack while he is held captive in a sort of zoo, and he has recurring hallucinations of the world Trafalmadore. Also featuring the author's recurring character Kilgore Trout, for 10 points name this novel about Billy Pilgrim written by Kurt Vonnegut. 
Slaughterhouse-Five
9

134034-)
One of his poems describes a "land beyond the sea" "Where amid her mulberry-trees / Sits Amalfi in the heat, / Bathing ever her white feet."Â  He wrote of objects that are the voice of the church and the voice of the past in a poem that asked what they said "to ships that southward pass / From the harbor of Matzatlan?" in "The Bells of San Blas."Â  In a sonnet to his dead wife, Frances, he describes a memorial for her displayed in the ravines of a "mountain in the distant West," "The (*) Cross of Snow". He used dactylic hexameter in a poem that sees the titular maiden search for her lover Gabriel; that poem begins by saying that "This is the forest primeval."Â  He wrote of the grandson of Nokomi whose wigwam sits by the shores of Gitche Gumee in his most famous work.Â  For 10 points, name this American Fireside poet of "Evangeline" and "The Song of Hiawatha."
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
9

134061-)
This poem's author claimed that "I am almost sorry I ever wrote that poem... if I'd written a whole volume of [them] I'd deserve to be spanked and sent to bed with the world's compliments," probably in reference to its conventional style.Â  It invokes the image of a "swaying mass, their eager faces turning" that populate the crowded shores, and, earlier in that stanza, it beckons the main figure to (*) "rise up and hear the bells" because it is for him that "the flag is flung" and "the bugle trills."Â  In its third stanza, that man is described as having "no pulse or will" and "his lips are pale and still," because, even though "our fearful trip is done" and "the prize we sought is won," he has "fallen cold and dead."Â  For 10 points, name this poem about the death of Abraham Lincoln by Walt Whitman.
"O Captain! My Captain!"
9

134066-)
One member of this family is a nearsighted shopkeeper who gives money to her customer Ned Higgins; she also cares for her brother, who spent thirty years in jail for murdering his uncle.Â  A member of this family falls in love with an early pioneer of photography named Holgrave, while another member's harpsichord is still said to be audible despite the fact that her life was ruined after she was hypnotized by one of several characters named (*) Matthew Maule.Â  As well as such members as Hepzibah, Clifford, Pheobe, and Alice, it also includes a Judge named Jaffrey and their ancestor, a puritan Colonel whose portrait looms over the occupants of the titular residence in a novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne.Â  For 10 points, name this family that inhabits The House of the Seven Gables and shares its name with the author of Inherent Vice and Gravity's Rainbow.
Pyncheon Family (prompt on The House of the Seven Gables before mentioned)
9

134067-)
One collection by this author opens with instructions to the reader to form a mobius strip that produces an infinitely long story through the phrases "Once upon a time" and "There was a story that began."Â  That collection features a story told from the perspective of a sperm, "Night-Sea Journey," while the titular story centers on the brothers Ambrose and Peter, both of whom are attracted to their neighbor Magda.Â  He wrote three novellas about Scheherazade, Perseus, and Bellorophon titled (*) Chimera, and he told of Jacob Horner's psychological problems in The End of the Road.Â  This author of the collection Lost in the Funhouse is better known for a novel in which Ebeneezer Cooke becomes poet laureate of Maryland and another about George Giles's rise through the ranks of academia.Â  For 10 points, name this American author of The Sot-Weed Factor and Giles Goat-Boy.
John Barth
9

134098-)
This character says "You only get a couple of moments that determine your life. Sometimes only one. And then it's gone. Forever," after describing how he doesn't understand another person's description of how love can feel like taking a dive or like getting drowned.Â  One of his historical assignments is to research an ancestor who attended Transylvania College, Cass Mastern.Â  Through most of the book in which he appears, he believes that his father is a scholarly attorney, when his biological father is actually a (*) judge named Irwin. After discovering that the only woman he has ever really loved, Anne Stanton, is sleeping with his boss, he develops a philosophy reminiscent of anomie, which he dubs the "Great Twitch". For ten points, name this character who works for Willie Stark in Robert Penn Warren'sÂ All the King's Men.
Jack Burden (accept either name)
9

134111-)
Kamilla Denman notes the "anarchic use of the dash" in this poem, while Beth Jensen posits that the "eyes" in the second stanza of this poem cast a "patriarchal gaze" on the narrator, citing Julia Kristeva's theory of the abject to explain the legal rejection of the body in the third stanza.Â  The oxymoron "last onset" appears in the second stanza, for which (*) "breaths are gathering sure... when the king / Be witnessed in his power."Â  The narrator "signs away / What portion of me I / Could make assignable" before the title figure "interposes."Â  That figure makes a "blue, uncertain, stumbling" sound before "the windows fail, and" the narrator "could not see to see."Â  That insect makes the last sound the narrator hears in, for 10 points, which poem by Emily Dickinson? 
"I Heard a Fly Buzz When I Died"
9

134115-)
One character in this novel, Pope, gives his lover a copy of the works of Shakespeare after she is rescued from a storm in New Mexico.Â  Another character, Fanny Crowne, bears the same last name as its main female character though they are not related.Â  The main character, who researches sleep teaching and is frustrated by his shortness, is friends with an emotional engineer, (*) Helmholtz Watson, while the son of Linda and Tomakin from the community at Malpais commits suicide through hanging after realizing he is an outcast in modern society.Â  Taking its name from Shakespeare's The Tempest and including the character John the Savage, it opens in the "year of our Ford 632."Â  For 10 points, what is this novel about Bernard Marx in a futuristic London by Aldous Huxley? 
Brave New World
9

134132-)
He makes Joe, his guide, trek to Box Car Pond instead of taking the boat, something Joe hasn't done in sixteen years.Â  He takes Ida Putiak, a manicure girl who works at the Pompeian Barber Shop, to the Biddlemeier's Inn, but he doesn't want her to "think [he's] getting fresh" when he asks her out.Â  He dabbles in politics through his friendship with Seneca Doane.Â  He visits a woman named Zilla after her husband is put in jail for shooting her in the arm, and he catches that husband, Paul (*) Reisling, in Chicago with May Arnold.Â  He cheats on his wife Myra with Tanis Judique, whom he helps find a house.Â  He is pressured to join the Good Citizens' League by Vergil Gunch and is the owner of a real-estate firm in the modern city of Zenith.Â  For 10 points, name this title character of a 1920 novel by Sinclair Lewis.
Babbitt
9

134138-)
One title character of this novel is described as "the blue-eyed Jewish-Irish Mohican scout who died in your arms at the roulette table at Monte Carlo". At the beginning of this novel, one character angrily calls her boyfriend a "section man" for boasting about his paper on Flaubert. That character frantically repeats "Lord Jesus Christ, have mercy on me," a prayer she found in (*) The Way of the Pilgrim. In this novel, an actor angrily argues with his mother, Bessie, while sitting in a bathtub, while the opening scene of this novel shows a character sitting at Sickler's with her boyfriend, Lane Coutell. That actor pretends to be his older brother Buddy to talk his sister through a nervous breakdown. The title characters of this novel are the youngest children of a family that appeared on a radio quizbowl program. For 10 points, name this novel whose title characters are two Glass children created by J.D. Salinger.
Franny and Zooey
9

134144-)
This poem mentions a place containing "hoary seers of ages past," which is surrounded by "Old Ocean's grey and melancholy waste." This poem describes "Hills/rock-ribb'd and ancient as the sun" and commands the reader not to go "like the quarry-slave at night/scourged by his dudgeons." Predicting that "each one as before will chase/his favorite phantom," this poem tells the reader that he will "be a brother to the (*) insensible rock/and to the sluggish clod," and will "lie down/with patriarchs of the infant world." In this poem, a certain entity "speaks a various language" "To Him who in the love of nature holds/communion with her visible forms." For 10 points, name this meditation on death, written by William Cullen Bryant.
"Thanatopsis"
9

134161-)
In this novel, a girl's mother tells her that, economically, she is a boy and not a girl, though the protagonist calls her "the only girl [he's] seen in a long time that actually did look like something blooming." That character finds the body of Jules Peterson in her bed at the end of book 1 of this novel, and she disposes of the body discreetly to try and avoid a scandal. Another character's fear of men gets her (*) treated by Dr. Gregory, as she writes letters to her future husband, who is stationed in France. The young actress Rosemary Hoyt falls in with a crowd of tan people at the beginning of this novel. For 10 points, name this a novel about the schizophrenic Nicole and her husband, the psychiatrist Dick Diver, a work of F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Tender is the Night
9

134165-)
A man who cares only about his own "pure-D satisfaction," "Sing a-down, down, down, down," narrates one of this writer's stories on a very hot day in Thermopylae; that story, about the driveway assassination of James Meredith, is based on the actual assassination of NAACP leader Medgar Evers. Billy Boy says the line, "If you're so smart, why ain't you rich?" at the end of another story by this author, in which Leota changes her mind about Mrs. Pike when Mrs. Pike claims five hundred dollars for uncovering the secret identity of the (*) rapist Mr. Petrie. She also wrote a novel wherein the secretary Dot shows up at the funeral of a man who was scared to death, and not scared to life, during his recovery from eye surgery. For 10 points, name this author of "The Petrified Man" who created the spoiled Wanda Fay and her older step-daughter Laurel McKelva Hand in The Optimist's Daughter.
Eudora Welty
9

134180-)
This poem, the first in the collection Mountain Interval, was originally printed completely in italics and was said by the poet to have been written based on experiences with Edward Thomas.Â  It echoes the philosophy of Heraclitus by saying that "knowing how way leads to way, / I doubted if I should ever come back".Â  One (*) option in this poem in described as "bent in the undergrowth," while another is described as "grassy and wanted [for] wear".Â  Both of them however, "lay / In leaves no step had trodden black."Â  The narrator recounts how "I shall be telling this with a sigh / Somewhere ages and ages hence" about a choice that "had made all the difference."Â  For 10 points, name this poem in which "Two woods diverged in a wood," and Robert Frost chose to take the "the one less traveled by."
"The Road Not Taken"
9

134198-)
The poem itself invokes the image of a dresser that lacks three glass knobs as a Â place where the embroidered fantails that the main subject once made could be housed. Â This poem also invokes the reader to "let the lamp affix it's beam," and its first stanza proclaims "Let the (*) wenches dawdle in such dress / As they are used to wear, and let the boys / Bring flowers in last month's newspapers." Â Later shifting to describe a dead woman whose "horny feet protrude ... To show how cold she is" this poem's first stanza ends with the invocation "let be be finale of seem." Â Opening with a command to "Call the roller of big cigars ... and bid him whip ... concupiscent curds," for 10 points, name this poem about the lord of a cold foodstuff by Wallace Stevens.
"The Emperor of Ice Cream"
9

134385-)
The target of this event becomes brain damaged in Nick DiChario's "The Winterberry", while this event happens three years earlier in one of the stories from Jeff Greenfield's Then Everything Changes. A novel centering on this event contains the archivist Nicholas Branch. It was the subject of James Ellroy's novel, (*) American Tabloid. Another work sees Jake Epping use a time slip in a diner's pantry to try to prevent this action. It ruined the wedding of Margaret Sterling in Mad Men and is the subject of Don DeLillo's Libra. For 10 points, name this event that titles Stephen King's 11/23/63.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy Assassination [or JFK Assassination; accept synonyms for assassination]
9

134509-)
In one novella by this author, the protagonist quotes from "Why I Am Not a Christian" to Hawes Caudwell, the Dean of Men at Winesburg College but ends up dead in the Korean War. The interfaith marriage of Libby and Paul Herz causes strain in a novel he wrote narrated by Gabe Wallach. He created a professor who calls two black students (*) "spooks" but is revealed to be passing as white. This creator of Coleman Silk in The Human Stain imagined the United States turning into a fascist state under President Lindbergh in The Plot Against America. For 10 points, name this author who wrote of Nathan Zuckerman in American Pastoral.
Philip Milton Roth
9

134642-)
One character in this novel dumbly provokes a man he believes to be legendary boxer Max Schmeling by spitting at him in a subway station. In this novel, Longman Harkoo hosts a party at which Salvador DalÃ­ entrances the audience with an undersea breathing apparatus. One character in this novel listens to Radio Jotunheim and kills a geologist at a naval base. While stationed in Antarctica, Shannenhouse kills that man's beloved dog Oyster. A meeting at the Hofzinser Club in this novel leads to magician Bernard (*) Kornblum agreeing to transport the Golem of Prague in a box that also helps to bring one of the title characters to America. The Iron Chain, led by Hitler, faces off against the Escapist in the most lucrative creation by the two title cousins in this novel. For 10 points, name this novel about comic books by Michael Chabon ["SHAY-bon"].
The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Klay  
9

134647-)
One of this author's poems includes lines like "All life's grandeur / is something with a girl in summer / Elated as the President / girdled by his establishment" and images like "a glass of water wet / with a fine fuzz of icy sweat." This author asks us to "Pity the planet, all joy gone / from this sweet volcanic gone" in a poem that begins with the exclamation "O to break loose, like the chinook / salmon jumping and falling back." The speaker of another of his poems says that he has "sat and listened to too many words of the (*) collaborating muse." The speaker describes himself as "captive as Racine" and "only [guided] by surprise" in that title poem of his collection The Dolphin. The title creature of a poem by this author of "Waking Early Sunday Morning" "jabs her wedge-head in a cup of sour cream, drops her ostrich tail, and will not scare." For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote "Skunk Hour."
Robert "Cal" Traill Spence Lowell IV 
9

134654-)
In one story in this collection, a baker apologizes for harassing two customers about a birthday cake they ordered for their dead son. The narrator of another story in this collection watches Tiny's fits alongside a friend who gets a kiss from Roxy when she arrives to sweep his chimneys. In the story that titles this collection, a woman reads to a man who touches her face with his fingers, prompting her to write him a poem and correspond with him on audio tapes. While spending time in Frank (*) Martin's "drying-out" facility, the narrator of another story in this collection shares stories about his alcoholism with J.P. The narrator holds Robert's hand and sketches a building that he can't describe in the title story of this collection, published after its author's What We Talk About When We Talk About Love. For 10 points, name this collection that includes "Where I'm Calling From," written by Raymond Carver.
Cathedral
9

134658-)
The protagonist of this essay is told that Jesus is the best doctor by a woman with gold teeth who describes her surgeries and old age at length. One character in this essay passes over an object labeled Ebony Mist and notes that its price would "feed a dozen Sahelian drought victims for three years." Upon reaching Lee-Peek, Rosalee assists this essay's main character while the graduate student Charlotte Hunt reluctantly stays back, fearing a snake attack. One character in this essay discusses Dust Tracks on a Road with Dr. Benton, who refutes the claim that the title character died of malnutrition. Ultimately, the author draws from her knowledge of Jean (*) Toomer to select the epithet "The Genius of the South" for a tombstone she places in Eatonville. For 10 points, name this Alice Walker essay about her search for the body of the creator of Janie Crawford.
"Looking for Zora" [or "In Search of Zora Neale Hurston"] 
9

134659-)
This author wrote a short story in which Miss Libbie marries the title character, who treats the slaves on his plantation better after witnessing Nick Johnson's abuse of others. In another story in that collection, Henry is initially unaffected by a curse that Aunt Peggy places on those who eat Mars Dugal's grapes. That story by this author is narrated to a couple moving south by a local (*) trickster. In the most famous novel by this author of "Mars Jeem's Nightmare" and a series of stories narrated by Uncle Julius, Dr. Miller operates on the son of the white supremacist Carteret family, while his own son is killed in a fictionalized account of the Wilmington race riots. For 10 points, name this African-American author of the collection The Conjure Woman and The Marrow of Tradition.
Charles Waddell Chesnutt 
9

134923-)
In introducing himself, the narrator of this story goes on a brief digression explaining that it's folly to presume that he had no past life. The narrator of this story is preoccupied with an unintelligible sentence from Tertullian's de Carne Christi, and exclaims, in French, that the central objects were merely "ideas! Ideas!" A passage ending with the narrator leaving an apartment with "triple horror, and mystery, and death" was removed after terrified readers complained to the editors of the (*) Southern Literary Messenger. This story ends with the narrator, who is named Egaeus, waking from a dream to find himself in a library, then using a spade to force open an ivory box that contains dental instruments and the blood-stained, ever-present thirty two ivory teeth. For 10 points, name this violent horror story by Poe, whose narrator marries his epileptic cousin.
"Berenice"
9

134928-)
One character in this novel salivates at the sight of a gifted hen, but only roasts and eats a single feather off its body. This novel is set in a place where "murder is as soundless as a spout of blood, as regular and rhythmic as sleep." A decapitated head in this novel begs to be let out of a trunk. A raven in this novel constantly warns, "Turn again, my bonny, Turn away home." Its antagonist gives a girl a recipe to remove the (*) berry juice stains from her lover's face. This novel opens with its male protagonists becoming fast friends at an inn where they outwit the mythical Mike Fink, and it then transitions to the enmity between Rosamond and her evil stepmother Salome, which splits the loyalties of one of those men, Clement Musgrove. For 10 points, name this novel starring the bandit Jamie Lockhart, a satiric adaptation of a Brothers Grimm fairy tale set in Louisiana, by Eudora Welty.
The Robber Bridegroom 
9

134931-)
Near the end of this novel, one of its major characters tears his pant leg while undertaking his ritual climb up a drainpipe to have sex with his lover. In his first flight after the death of his pilot sister, the protagonist of this novel cakes the plane with his vomit. Nearly every character in this novel delights in eating Filipino-style Chinese donuts at the Pearl of Manila. The protagonist of this novel investigates a conspiracy to blow up the Dome of the Rock, soon after being rescued from prison by Willie Dick, his old vulgar (*) Tlingit buddy. In this novel, Hertz Shemetz, the father of Berko, is revealed to have left a cardboard chessboard next to the body of his victim, a man calling himself Emmanuel Lasker. For 10 points, name this alternative historical novel set in the predominantly-Jewish town of Sitka, Alaska, starring detective Meyer Landsman and written by Michael Chabon.
The Yiddish Policemen's Union
9

134933-)
The author of this poem wrote a sequel that promises that the reader shall "know how sublime a thing it is / To suffer and be strong," and states "within my breast there is no light / But the cold light of stars." This poem contains a huge diss against "dumb, driven cattle" in a bivouac doubling as a battlefield. A parody of this poem contains the fantastic line "'Egg thou art, and egg remainest'/ Was not spoken of the hen." A hypothetical "forlorn and shipwrecked brother" in this poem will be encouraged by the presence of Â (*) "footsteps on the sands of time." The speaker of this poem begins "tell me not in mournful numbers" that its subject "is but an empty dream," shortly before yelling "life is real! life is earnest!" For 10 points, name this nauseatingly-affirmatory poem that evokes a widely-sung book of the Old Testament, written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
"A Psalm of Life"
9

134943-)
A character in this novel is repeatedly described as baring his chest, which he had first and most famously done in a fight against Koll. Another of its characters is a Calabrian servant named Sandro, who has an affair with the handmaid Herda. One of this novel's main characters is given a hawk named Bathsheba by a man who then leaves to become a part of the Varangian Guard. This novel opens with Rorik trying to persuade his daughter to accept marriage to (*) Horwendil the Jute. In its final section, the Lord Chamberlain Corambis and Fengon both Latinize their names. This novel is divided into three parts which use different character names, taken in order from Saxo Grammaticus, Francois de Belleforest, and Shakespeare. For 10 points, name this 2000 novel that ends with Hamlet's return to Elsinore, a prequel written by John Updike.
Gertrude and Claudius
9

134944-)
This author describes a man angrily shouting "Bullshit!" regarding the assertion that Akhenaten introduced monotheism in the essay "Egyptomania". This author wrote the pamphlet "Lifeitselfmanship, Or, How to Become a Precisely-because Man", which outlined the differences between "L and non-L", or "Left and Non-Left", English, as a response to the book Noblesse Oblige. Robert Byrne's book Writing Rackets helped inspire this author to investigate Bennett Cerf and the "Famous Writers School" in the article "Let Us Now Praise Famous Writers". She described carving hammer-and-sickles into windows to match the (*) swastikas carved by her sister in her autobiographical novel Hons and Rebels. Perhaps most famously, she expanded her article "St. Peter Don't You Call Me" into a muckraking investigation of the skyrocketing costs of funerals. For 10 points, name this Anglo-American author of The American Way of Death, a member of a family which also included The Pursuit of Love author Nancy.
Jessica Mitford [prompt on last name only; accept Jessica Lucy Freeman-Mitford or Decca Mitford]
9

134945-)
These things are said to have "got so far. Seventy feet high! Russia, Poland and Germany!" in a poem whose last stanza claims "Napoleon is pleased, he is pleased with everything" and describes these things as having "a notion of honor" and a "black intractable mind". The speaker of another poem about these creatures describes herself as "Pillar of white in a blackout of knives" after joining the rector, the midwife, and the sexton to dress up for a "meeting" involving them. They are said to live on "Tate and Lyle" in the poem "Wintering", which asserts that they are "all (*) women, maids and the long royal lady." Another poem describes them as "women who only scurry, whose news is the open cherry, the open clover". The "chore-girl" tells these creatures that "Mistress Mary is dead and gone!" in a poem by John Greenleaf Whittier. For 10 points, identify these creatures, the subjects of a five-poem sequence by Sylvia Plath that includes "The Swarm" and "The Sting".
bees [accept "Telling the Bees" or queen bees]
9

134948-)
An essay about this poet calls one of his works "the terrible negative from which the eighteenth century's Kodak picture had to be printed" and ends by describing a joy "strong enough to make us say [...] that many things in this world are wonderful, but of all these the most wonderful is man". A poem by this author describes a "shining surface picture" of "Me myself in the summer heaven godlike". The speaker of that poem relates a story of a water-drop from a fern disrupting the sight of something regarding which he asks "What was that (*) whiteness? Truth? A pebble of quartz?" The speaker of another poem by this author claims to have "passed by the watchman on his beat / And dropped my eyes, unwilling to explain", and also to have "outwalked the furthest city light". That poem by this man describes a "luminary clock against the sky" which "proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right." For 10 points, name this subject of Randall Jarrell's "To The Laodiceans" who wrote "For Once, Then, Something", "Acquainted with the Night", and "Design".
Robert [Lee] Frost
9

134950-)
A character in this story claims that "the most inveterate mark of men in general" is "the capacity to spend endless time with dull women". Theodora Bosanquet allows Minnie Kidd to read this story in the novel Author, Author. This story opens at a party at Weatherend, where two characters compare memories of a meeting in Rome during which a thunderstorm drove them to seek shelter at Pompeii. Its main male character is obsessed with avoiding "selfishness", despite the fact that his constant (*) female companion's self-stated life's goal is "to help you to pass for a man like another". At its end, the protagonist laments having never accepted the love of May Bartram, realizing that wasting his life was exactly the catastrophe he'd long feared. For 10 points, name this novella in which John Marcher likens his sense of foreboding to the lurking title creature, a work of Henry James.
"The Beast in the Jungle"
9

134952-)
A character described in this story claimed to love Jane Austen, but it was later revealed that his favorite author "wrote a book about four men that starved to death in Alaska" and was named L. Manning Vines. Another character in this story responds to three different questions by referencing Armenian actor Akim Tamiroff. It was adapted into the film The Foolish Heart, still the only film adaptation of its author's works. A character in this story screams at her daughter to "get in the center of that bed" after learning that (*) "Mickey Mickeranno" has succeeded "Jimmy Jimmereeno" as Ramona's imaginary friend. One of this story's central characters laments having married Lew after the wartime death of Walt Glass, who gave her the title nickname after she twisted an ankle. For 10 points, identify this J.D. Salinger story about the drunken reminiscences of Mary Jane and Eloise.
"Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut"
9

134953-)
A train in this novel counts among its passengers a fruit-seller named Steve who is actually the disguised criminal Hiram "the Pinhead" Glazer and a pickpocket named Wellington Mape. A recurring character in this novel is sometimes known as "Operative 6348XM" or "Comrade Z", but is generally described as a fat man in a Chesterfield overcoat. Squire Bird sells its protagonist's mother's house to Asa Goldstein, who also decorates the "American" room in the "House of All Nations" brothel owned by Wu Fong, which is where its protagonist's (*) oft-raped love interest Betty Prail is taken. At the end of this novel, its protagonist is assassinated in the Bijou Theater and becomes a martyr for the National Revolutionary Party of Shagpoke Whipple, after earlier losing his teeth, leg, thumb, eye, and scalp. For 10 points, identify this vicious parody of Horatio Alger, a Nathanael West novel depicting the "Dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin".
A Cool Million: The Dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin
9

134960-)
This character breaks up with one girlfriend after he accidentally pricks her neck with his shirt stud, and he has a brief relationship with a girl to whom he recites "Ulalume" after meeting her atop a haystack in a rainstorm. In Atlantic City, this character takes the blame for violating the Mann Act for his friend Alec, whose sister (*) Rosalind causes him to become an alcoholic by breaking their engagement. He is judged to be a "personage" by Monsignor Darcy, an old friend of his aristocratic mother Beatrice, and he enlists to fight in World War I after becoming disillusioned with Princeton. For 10 points, name this "romantic egotist," the protagonist of F. Scott Fitzgerald's This Side of Paradise.
Amory Blaine [accept either name]
9

134965-)
In one version of this poem, the speaker laments, "If it is terrible alone, it is sordid with one more," and "white-armed Fresca" relates how she "went last nightÂ—more out of dull despairÂ—to Lady Kleinwurm's party." This poem describes an unnamed woman whose "brain allows one half-formed thought to pass: 'Well now that's done: and I'm glad it's over.'" Other characters in this poem include a man who claims to have (*) "foresuffered all enacted on this same divan or bed" by the aforementioned typist. In its first section, the speaker declares, "Son of man, you cannot say, or guess, for you know only a heap of broken images." Recurring motifs in this poem include those of the Unreal City and the drowned sailor Phlebas the Phoenician. For 10 points, name this seminal poem by T. S. Eliot that begins, "April is the cruelest month."
"The Waste Land"
9

134966-)
In this play, after a discussion about whether one character bought or stole some pig iron, another character delivers a tirade recalling how he was told to "help yourself" when he removed a piece of toast from a friend's plate. That character in this play cites the possibility of being attacked with a cleaver to defend his decision to carry a revolver "because of the way things are." In this play, a phone call from (*) Ruthie confirms that one character is in Columbus Hospital after having his jaw broken in a mugging. Unseen characters in this play include the poker player Fletcher and a suitcase-carrying collector whom Teach, Bobby, and Don plan to rob of the title object. For 10 points, name this play by David Mamet titled for a valuable coin.
American Buffalo
9

134969-)
One character in this novel speaks with a provincial accent that disappears when he pleads a legal case for his daughter, during which he suffers a stroke. Another character is a cook for a camp of loggers whose travel stories provide the protagonist with material. This novel's protagonist angers his wife by helping the office girl Hannah Morrison into a sleigh. After the protagonist's wallet is stolen on a train, he is unable to repay fifteen hundred dollars to Ben (*) Halleck. Later, the protagonist is shot in Whited Sepulchre after unsuccessfully filing for divorce from his wife Marcia Gaylord. For 10 points, name this novel about freelance writer and newspaper editor Bartley Hubbard written by William Dean Howells.
A Modern Instance
9

134976-)
This essay notes, "When liberty goes it is not the first to go nor the second or third to goÂ…it waits for all the rest to goÂ…it is the last," then catalogues the conditions for its extinction. Its author praises natural scientists as "the lawgivers of poets" since "their construction underlies the structure of every perfect poem." This essay identifies the conjunction of pride and sympathy as central to the art of the poet, who "judges not as the judge judges but as the sun falling around a helpless thing." The author of this essay concludes, "The proof of a poet is that his country absorbs him as affectionately as he has absorbed it," after earlier declaring, "The (*) United States themselves are essentially the greatest poem." For 10 points, name this essay by Walt Whitman that opens his major collection.
the preface to Leaves of Grass [prompt on just Leaves of Grass]
9

134977-)
This novel alludes to Billy Budd when the protagonist experiences the "orgasm of the hanged man" in a police station. It was originally printed together with a Maurice Helbrant novel, and its cover illustration depicted a man struggling with a screaming blonde woman for a packet in her hand in front of a table with a stove on it. This novel portrays Herbert Huncke in the character of Herman, and its loose sequel, which also deals with the search for yagÃ© with which this novel concludes, is entitled (*) Queer. This novel is presented as the memoir of its pseudonymous author, William Lee. For 10 points, name these "Confessions of an Unredeemed Drug Addict," the first novel by William S. Burroughs.
Junkie
9

134979-)
In a poem, a resident of this location describes his title "fairy palace" as a "gray wasps' nest of chewed-up paper glued with spit." Another poem about a resident of this location describes how "the skies were egg-white for the funeral" of Miss Lula's servant Cootchie. Residents of this location inspired the poems "Faustina, or Rock Roses" and "Jeronimo's House" by Elizabeth Bishop, who shared a house with Louise Crane while living here. The descendants of another author's six-toed (*) cats populate his house at this location. Another poet wrote of "the ever-hooded, tragic-gestured sea" in a poem about a woman here for whom "there never was a world for her except the one she sang and, singing, made." For 10 points, name this island inhabited at various times by Ernest Hemingway and Wallace Stevens, the latter of whom wrote about its "idea of order."
Key West
9

134982-)
The protagonist of this story declares, "I've got a right to eat this kind of stuff, if I'm willing to carry it" to his empty surroundings while cooking beans and spaghetti, but "[does] not speak again" because his "voice sound[s] strange." Shortly afterward, that protagonist laughs when the coffee he boils according to the instructions of his dead friend Hopkins turns out to be bitter. At the end of this story, the protagonist considers wading into a swamp before deciding it is a "tragic adventure" and there are "plenty of days coming" for that. This story is set in burnt-down woodlands where all the grasshoppers have adapted by turning black. The protagonist of this story carries a bottle full of grasshoppers with him in its (*) second half, which is separated from its first half by an italicized chapter about the hanging of Sam Cardinella. This story concerns a probable victim of shell-shock who copes by catching trout in the backwoods of Michigan. For 10 points, name this final story from In Our Time, an Ernest Hemingway story about Nick Adams' fishing trip on the Black.
"Big Two-Hearted River"
9

134984-)
A literary agent in this novel kills herself by jumping out of a hotel window after falsely reporting a case of child abuse. Its protagonist's mother Camilla dies when her appendicitis is treated by a con man pretending to be a ship's doctor. That con man later tries to pass off a corpse as a mummy and goes by the name Mr. Yak while living in Spain. A playwright in this novel, who tries to get attention by returning from Barbados with his arm wrapped in a fake sleeve, later starts to confuse himself with Gordon, the protagonist of his own failed play. As a child, its protagonist is torn between the spirituality of his Aunt May and the drive for creativity espoused by his preacher father, who subscribes to the Cult of Mithras. Its protagonist, an acquaintance of (*) Otto Pivner and Frank Sinisterra, becomes involved in a criminal conspiracy with the Jesuit critic Basil Valentine and the collector Rectall Brown, who pretends to find the protagonist's paintings in old buildings. Jack Green wrote Fire the Bastards! about the failure of 53 critics review and often even read this notoriously difficult 900-page book. For 10 points, name this novel about the art forger Wyatt Gwyon, the masterpiece of William Gaddis.
The Recognitions
9

134987-)
On a visit to this state, the narrator of an essay feels the "chill of death" in his groin when he sees his son put on a wet swimsuit. In this state, a pharmacist falls in love with Denise Thibodeau after Tony Kuzio accidentally shoots her husband on a hunt in one of thirteen connected stories. E.B. White described returning to a childhood vacation spot in this state in the essay "Once More to the Lake." Another essay about a visit to this state debunks the claim that animals need a cerebral cortex to suffer, then describes the sound of a "thrashing" creature "scraping the sides of a kettle" to question the morality of (*) eating it. An unnamed writer befriends Almira Todd and Captain Littlepage while staying in Dunnet Landing in this state, where Elizabeth Strout set the novel Olive Kitteridge. For 10 points, name this common literary tourist destination, the setting of Sarah Orne Jewett's Country of the Pointed Firs and David Foster Wallace's "Consider the Lobster."
Maine
9

134994-)
As a child, the protagonist of this book throws a tantrum over going to school that his grandfather dispels by grabbing him by the hand and silently marching him to school miles away. The protagonist of this book retires to Wenlock Abbey to recover from the trauma of watching his sister Louisa die of typhus contracted in a car accident. The preface to this book quotes the opening lines to Jean-Jacques Rousseau's Confessions before comparing the main character to a mannequin over which garments can be draped. Chapter 1 notes that "Probably no child, born in the year, held (*) better cards than" its protagonist. The protagonist of this book becomes a professor at Harvard College, but disavows the experience he gained there, instead using his time studying science at Great Expositions to develop a "Dynamo Theory of History." For 10 points, name this famous autobiography by the grandson of a President.
The Education of Henry Adams
9

135000-)
This work builds on William Blake in its statement that "Every deep reader is an Idiot Questioner. He asks, 'Who wrote my poem?'". This work says that tautological criticism declares that a poem means itself, and reductive criticism declares a poem means something that is not a poem, but the true meaning of a poem is always another poem. Those ideas are re-iterated an "interchapter" titled "A Manifesto for (*) Antithetical Criticism". In this work, creative writing is describe as a form of disciplined perverseness rebelling against priority. This work includes askesis, tessera, and clinamen among its six revisionary ratios by which a strong poet may overcome his belatedness by misreading his predecessor. For 10 points, name this 1973 work of literary theory by Harold Bloom. 
The Anxiety of Influence
9

135002-)
While in the Metropolitan Museum, this character remarks that the fact that the most important objects from forgotten people are labeled "Use unknown" is proof that nothing matters. This character is suspected of having had an affair with her husband's secretary, who later becomes the French tutor of Mrs. Carfry's nephew. Â In one scene, a character who is sent to fetch this character decides not to do so when this character doesn't turn around while standing on a wooden pier in (*) Newport. The novel in which she appears ends with the male protagonist choosing to sit on a bench outside of her Paris apartment rather than going up to see her. This granddaughter of Mrs. Manson Mingott flees to Europe rather than consummate an affair, after May Welland announces her own pregnancy. For 10 points, name this ex-wife of a Polish count, the love interest of Newland Archer in Edith Wharton's The Age of Innocence. Â 
Countess Ellen Olenska [accept either name] 
9

135003-)
In a work titled for eating these objects, the speaker describes licking the hand of a woman, before declaring: "I am a new man. I snarl at her and bark". One of these objects is declared to be "sad because it wants to be yours, and cannot" in "Paradoxes and Oxymorons", by John Ashbery. A hypothetical one of these objects is described as "Silent as the sleeve-worn stone / Of casement ledges where the moss has grown" and (*) "motionless in time / As the moon climbs". One of these objects called "Oranges" is contrasted with a work by Mike Goldberg called "Sardines" in Frank O'Hara's "Why I am not a painter". One author prescribed that these "should be equal to: not true". These objects are said to contain "imaginary gardens with real toads in them" by Marianne Moore. For 10 points, name these objects created by people like Mark Strand, Archibald MacLeish, and Walt Whitman. 
poems [or poetry; prompt on anything vaguer, like "books" or "piece of literature"] 
9

135006-)
This poem asks: "Will the sunflower turn to us, will the clematis / Stray down, bend to us; tendril and spray / Clutch and cling?" One part of this poem describes the wind that sweeps through such places as "London, / Hampstead and Clerken well, Campden and Putney". A bird in this poem says: "human kind cannot bear very much reality". Â The lines "Garlic and sapphires in the mud / Clot the bedded axle-tree" begin the second section of this poem. This poem describes a (*) rose-garden connected to a passage, in which "Footfalls echo in the memory". This poem opens by declaring that "Time present and time past / Are both perhaps present in time future". For 10 points, name this poem titled for a manor house in Cotswolds, the first of T.S. Eliot's Four Quartets. 
"Burnt Norton" [prompt on "Four Quartets"] 
9

135008-)
In one scene in this play, a character yells at his parents for lending a stranger his favorite pink shirt. One character in this play teaches his lover how to pronounce "bottle of beer" and to send rich people pots of jam as gifts. Two men in this play are kicked out of the Rainbow Room for dancing together, shortly before having sex together in the park. That encounter leads Elizabeth's fiancÃ©e, Paul, to jump out of their window to his death. This play opens and closes with a double-sided (*) Kandinsky painting rotating above the stage. One character in this play gains access to an apartment by telling the story of muggers stealing his essay on The Catcher in the Rye, and later promises Flan and Ouisa a role in a movie version of Cats. For 10 points, a conman pretending to be the son of Sidney Poitier connects the lives of an assortment of New Yorkers in what play by John Guare? 
Six Degrees of Separation
9

135009-)
One character in this work earns the respect of his comrades when he punches a man who pokes him in the ribs on the pretext of showing him where sirloin steak comes from. One character in this work exclaims "Handsomely done, my lad! And handsome is as handsome did it too!" after another character spills a pan full of soup. The protagonist is warned that a character nicknamed "Jimmy Legs" dislikes him; that warning is given by the Old (*) Dansker. While giving an impassioned defense, the stuttering protagonist accidentally fatally strikes the master-at-arms who falsely accused him of being the ringleader in a mutiny aboard the HMS Bellipotent. Claggart's death forces Captain Vere to court-martial the title character, leading to his hanging. For 10 points, name this novella, the unfinished final prose work of Herman Melville. 
Billy Budd, Sailor [accept Billy Budd, Foretopman]
9

135014-)
In one essay, this author described visiting Raskolnikov's bedroom on a trip to Russia with William Gaddis. He responded to a Reiner Stach biography of Kafka with an essay narrated in the first person by Kafka himself, in which Kafka bemoans being turned into a metaphor. One of his protagonists invents the a faction called the Party of Disappointed People. This author of Life Sentences wrote a work in which the arrival of a frozen child at their home inspires Pa, Big Hans, and Jorge to travel by sleigh through the snow to confront the killer of the child's family. This author of A (*) Temple of Texts and "The Pedersen Kid" spent 26 years writing a novel in which history professor William Frederick Kohler writes a book on guilt in Nazi Germany while burrowing into his own basement. For 10 points, name this American author of In the Heart of the Heart of the Country and The Tunnel. Â 
William H[oward] Gass
9

135018-)
In one poem by this author, a specimen in a butterfly collection asks: "Who told the little kid about sticking pins into us?". The four lines "Green Buddhas / On the fruit stand. / We eat the smile / And spit out the teeth" form his poem "Watermelons". One poem by him consists of fake corrections, such as "Where it says snow / read teeth marks of a virgin". In another poem by him, Death's family waits for him to come home for dinner after he accidentally goes to the wrong address to collect a body. This poet of "errata" and "Eyes Fastened with Pins" has translated the work of his countrymen Tomaz (*) Salamun and Vasko Popa, and he won the Pulitzer Prize in 1990 for a collection of over 70 short prose poems. Â For 10 points, name this former U.S. Poet Laureate and author of the collection The World Doesn't End, a Serbian-American poet. 
[DuÂšan] "Charles" Simic
9

135021-)
In this novel, a ski jumper named Nils tries to rape Libby after she responds by quoting Raleigh's "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd" when he tries to seduce her by reading her "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love." In this novel, Gus LeRoy has an affair with Polly but eventually returns to his wife, in part because he promised his wife to undergo psychoanalysis. Other characters in this novel include Priss Hartshorn, who debates whether to breastfeed her son, and (*) Dottie Renfrew, who is deflowered by an arrogant artist named Dick Brown. This novel begins with the marriage of the unsuccessful playwright Harald Petersen to Kay Strong, and ends with Kay's funeral. Taking place in the 1930s, it follows the lives of eight friends who graduated from Vassar. For 10 points, name this novel by Mary McCarthy.
The Group
9

135023-)
The speaker of this poem describes her lover clasping her "aching, melting, unafraid" after chasing her through a maze. One character in this poem "had a whim that sunlight carried blessing," although the speaker of this poem takes refuge from the heat of the sun in the shade of a lime tree. The speaker of this poem wears a stiff brocade and a dress with a pink and silver train, and she makes note of the daffodils and squills blowing in the wind. This poem, which was published in the collection Men, (*) Women and Ghosts, ends by asking "Christ! What are [the title things] for?" It describes the speaker walking "down the garden paths" after receiving a letter informing her that her fiancÃ©e Lord Hartwell has been killed in action. For 10 points, name this anti-war poem by Amy Lowell.
"Patterns"
9

135029-)
This character is described as being "lousy and reconciled to being so." At one point, this character quotes the closing couplet of a Heinrich Heine poem about morphine. The directions in the play in which this character appears frequently instruct that his lines are to be delivered sardonically. He ends that play staring out the window, oblivious to the racket caused by the rest of the characters (*) singing different songs at the same time, and finally wishing for his own death. This character's ex-girlfriend is the mother of Don Parritt, a former member of the anarchist movement, which this character calls "the Movement." This character, who is called "the old foolosopher" by Theodore Hickman, believes he is the only one who is immune to pipe dreams. For 10 points, name this denizen of Harry Hope's bar in The Iceman Cometh.
Larry Slade [accept either name]
9

135032-)
One stanza of this poem describes "dead sons from the war" and "daughters whom life had crushed" as well as "their children fatherless, crying." One character in this poem is a major who "had talked with venerable men of the revolution," while another is a fiddler who "played with life all his ninety years, braving the sleet with bared breast." That character babbles "of the horse-races of long ago at Clary's Grove" and "of what Abe Lincoln said one time at Springfield." Two stanzas of this poem list the manners of (*) death of various characters, including one who "was brought to her little space by Ella and Kate and Mag." It begins by asking "Where are Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom and Charley?" and responding that "all, all are sleeping on" the title location. For 10 points, name this poem which introduces Edgar Lee Masters' Spoon River Anthology.
"The Hill"
9

135034-)
This author wrote about Magin traveling to Karsovy to search for his brother in the short story "In a Northern Country." She punningly riffed on the title phrase of her short story "A Mown Lawn," and wrote about a fickle man in "Sketches for a Life of Wassilly." An unnamed narrator tries to organize her memories of a failed love affair into a novel in this author's only novel, The End of the Story. Before marrying Siri Hustvedt, Paul (*) Auster was married to this author. She is also known for her translations of French novels, including Swann's Way and Madame Bovary, but she is best known for her short stories, collections of which include Break It Down, Samuel Johnson Is Indignant, and Varieties of Disturbance. For 10 points, name this American author whose Collected Stories were published in 2009, and who shares her surname with the author of "Life in the Iron Mills."
Lydia Davis
9

135035-)
Description acceptable. At the end of one chapter, a character ominously says that she senses that someone or something is hiding in this building, and has been for four years. That character later visits this building with a character who discovers an old man lying in bed who says he has come to this location to die. This building is built by twenty slaves working in the mud under the direction of a (*) French architect. Henry is killed when it is burned down by Clytie, and Jim Bond is the only survivor. This building is owned by a man who marries Ellen and whose daughter Judith nearly marries her half-brother Charles Bon. This building is visited by Rosa Coldfield and Quentin Compson, who tells his Harvard roommate Shreve McCannon about it. For 10 points, name this building built on a certain character's "Hundred" in Absalom, Absalom!
Thomas Sutpen's mansion [accept anything indicating it's Thomas Sutpen's house; prompt on Sutpen's Hundred or any other answer indicating just Thomas Sutpen's land or property]
9

135036-)
The author of this essay is apprehensive of a framed verse beginning "God bless the corners of this house" because it is the kind of ironic detail that would be mentioned in the news if a violent crime ever took place in the house. This essay includes an excerpt from a psychiatric report about an attack of vertigo and nausea suffered by the author. The author of this essay recalls sitting on the floor in a recording studio while three members of The (*) Doors are waiting for Jim Morrison to arrive. This essay chronicles Huey Newton's arrest for the murder of John Frey, and its author interviews Linda Kasabian, one of the key witnesses in the Tate-LaBianca murder trial. A volume collecting the nonfiction of this essay's author gets its title from its opening line, "We tell ourselves stories in order to live." For 10 points, name this Joan Didion essay named for a Beatles album.
"The White Album"
9

135038-)
After this character dies, a strong wind passes through, prompting another character to remark that God "had to get her out of the way before he bring the fire." In another work, the undertaker West visits her to find out whether his wife is in heaven, and Sterling visits her instead of visiting Prophet Samuel. This character's housekeeper, who is also her disciple, is Black Mary, the sister of Caesar (*) Wilkes. The plot of another play, whose protagonist is the politician Harmond Wilkes, revolves around the planned demolition of her house at 1839 Wylie. Characters she takes into her home include Solly Two Kings and Citizen Barlow. She apparently lives to be more than 300 years old, since she is said to be 285 years old in Gem of the Ocean. For 10 points, name this "washer of souls" who is a recurring character in the Pittsburgh Cycle of August Wilson.
Aunt Ester
9

135041-)
One of this poet's works contains a faux-Latin poem attributed to Ovid called "Kettelopotomachia" or "battle of the kettle and the pot." In another poem, he wrote that "Once to every man and nation comes the moment to decide, in the strife of Truth with Falsehood, for the good or evil side." In a poem inspired by the death of his daughter Blanche, he described telling his daughter Mabel that the Lord is responsible for making snow fall. This author of "The Present (*) Crisis" and "The First Snowfall" also wrote a work whose title character, Hosea, is contrasted with Birdofredum Sawin. The year 1848 saw the publication of his most important long works, including The Vision of Sir Launfal, The Biglow Papers, and a work which satirized Margaret Fuller and other literary figures of the age. For 10 points, name this author of A Fable for Critics.
James Russell Lowell [prompt for first name on just Lowell]
9

135043-)
An architect in one of this author's works expresses a keen enthusiasm for the "zomes" which make up the planned desert city of Arrepentimiento. The protagonist of that novel repeatedly runs into the supposedly dead Coy Harlingen as he tries to uncover what happened to his ex-girlfriend Shasta and her boyfriend Mickey Wolfmann. Another novel by this author of Inherent Vice, contains a cult centered around the mathematician Weed Atman and features an annual televised scam in which the protagonist jumps through a window in order to collect mental disability checks. The stamp expert Genghis Cohen helps the protagonist of another novel examine the title collection as she attempts to unravel the conspiracy surrounding the Trystero. For 10 points, name this author of Vineland who wrote about Oedipa Maas in The Crying of Lot 49.
Thomas Pynchon
7

135048-)
D. T. Max chronicled the editing controversy surrounding this man's early works, which were heavily rewritten by his editor, Gordon Lish. Near the end of one story by this man, Wayne asks Caroline, "Well, what do you think? Is there a chance for us or not?" after an unsuccessful dinner at Aldo's restaurant. In another story by this author, a waitress who serves an extremely obese man later imagines herself to be too fat to feel her husband when he tries to sleep with her against her will. Those stories, "Signals" and "Fat", can be found in this man's collection Will You Please Be Quiet Please? This man also wrote a story in which Terri argues with her husband over whether Ed's suicide and abusive behaviour can be examples of the title concept. For 10 points, name this author of "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love".
Raymond Carver
7

135051-)
This man wrote about Mildred Osborne's love for the title cowboy in his novel The Love of Landry, and described the title entities as, "The fame that for a moment gleams,/Then flies forever," in his poem "Dreams". Maya Angelou's I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings takes its title from his poem "Sympathy", and another work by this poet is narrated by an entity haunted by the "curse of a guiltless man" who was lynched on its branches. This author of "The Haunted Oak" wrote, "We sing, but oh the clay is vile/Beneath our feet" in a work which asks, "Why should the world be overwise,/In counting all our tears and sighs?" The title object of that poem "grins and lies" and "hides our cheeks and shades our eyes". For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote "We Wear the Mask".
Paul Laurence Dunbar
7

135058-)
One character in this story observes, "Everybody's youth is a dream, a form of chemical madness," as another character notes, "How pleasant then to be insane!" That character recounts a story where her little sister once pushed their father downstairs but he just walked it off because he never punishes his children. Another character in this story pretends that the South won the American Civil War to trick his slaves into continued servitude, and the central family in this work has a dungeon in which they lock up pilots who fly too close to the title entity. Kismine warns the protagonist that he will be killed, but they are able to escape when an airplane attack leads Percy and his parents to blow up the title entity. For 10 points, name this story about an impossibly large gem, by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
"The Diamond As Big As the Ritz"
7

135060-)
This poet described the title phenomenon as "the poem of the air/Slowly, in silent syllables recorded," in his poem, "Snow-flakes", and the speaker of another poem notes that, "Dust thou art, to dust returnest/Was not spoken of the soul". This poet of "A Psalm of Life" wrote a work which repeats the lines, "A boy's will is the wind's will,/And the thoughts of youth are long, long thoughts," and that poem is titled, "My Lost Youth". In another work, set in "the forest primeval", one character is helped by Father Felician and becomes a Sister of Mercy, where she comes across a dying man who whispers her name, and in another poem, one person "climb[s] the tower of the Old North Church" because the title character had instructed, "One, if by land, and two, if by sea." For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote about the midnight ride of Paul Revere, as well as "The Song of Hiawatha" and "Evangeline".
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
7

135064-)
The title character of this poem is at one point described as "walking around looking like Al Jolson", and this poem states, "two hollow spots were left/like soup spoons" when two characters have their eyes pecked out. The central figures in this poem are compared to "two dolls in a museum case/...their darling smiles pasted on for eternity". The speaker states, "The bird is important, my dears, so heed him," in reference to a dove that helps the title character pick lentils out of ashes and tells another character to "look at the blood pouring forth" from one character's foot, when that character cuts off her toe to try to fit into a shoe. Opening with stories about going "from diapers to Dior", for 10 points, name this Anne Sexton poem based on a Brother's Grimm fairytale.
"Cinderella"
7

135067-)
The coda to this poem mentions "the controversy touching the younger and the older Tolstoy, Villon, St. Anthony, Kung, Rimbaud, Buddah and Abraham Lincoln," and states, "In the huge gap between the flash and the thunderstroke spring has come in". The speaker recalls waiting through rain for four days to see the Jungfrau, and states, "The deaths I suffered began in the heads around me". In another section, the speaker claims, "All women are not Helen ...but have Helen in their hearts" and describes the addressee as "a girl so pale and ready to faint that I pitied and wanted to protect you". The speaker states, "Having your love I was rich... Thinking to have lost it I am tortured and cannot rest," and is cheered to learn that the title flower also grows in hell. Written to the poet's wife Florence on his deathbed, for 10 points, name this long poem by William Carlos Williams.
"Asphodel, That Greeny Flower"
7

135070-)
In one work, this poet described "a body shaken and unsound;/A brow divided by a wound;/A throat encircled by a care." In another poem, the speaker instructs, "Put it into your left-hand pocket/And never look inside," in reference to the title "Parting Gift". This poet of "Lament for Glasgerion" wrote, "There is something in this richness that I hate," in a poem, in which the speaker states, "We shall live well--we shall live very well," and begins, "When the world turns completely upside down/You say we'll emigrate to the Eastern Shore" to live among trees of the title fruit. For 10 points, name this American poet whose collection Nets to Catch the Wind includes her poem "Wild Peaches".
Elinor Wylie
7

135073-)
In one of these works by this poet, the title character is told, "So enter now, and see for what slight thing/You are betrayed," and that work is a gender-flipped retelling of "Bluebeard". Another one of these works ends, "Whether or not we find what we are seeking/Is idle, biologically speaking." Another of these works notes that "the rain/Is full of ghosts tonight," and compares the speaker to a tree who "knows its boughs more silent than before", while another asks, "Let all who prate of Beauty hold their peace" in favour of the title figure. The speaker of another one of these works refuses to trade the title entity, even though it "cannot fill the thickened lung with breath,/Nor clean the blood, nor set the fractured bone". For 10 points, name these works which include "What lips my lips have kissed", "Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare", and "Love is not all", as well as one that begins, "I will put Chaos into fourteen lines," written by the author of Renascence.
sonnets of Edna St. Vincent Millay
7

135074-)
In one story by this man, a group of aliens arrive on a post-apocalyptic Earth to rebuild society by manufacturing objects for humans, but when the aliens start dying, all the things they have made start crumbling into dust. Another story by this author of "Pay for the Printer" ends with the protagonist's life being spared because a race of alien mice might have promised to halt their invasion of Earth only so long as he is alive. In another story, one character breaks into a construction plant to find a time scoop he was hired to work on, but which he has no memory of. That character receives a ticket stub, a length of wire, half a poker chip, and various other trinkets in place of the title entity, and eventually blackmails his way into joining Rethrick Construction. A previously mentioned protagonist finds a box of dried worms in his apartment, leading him to wonder whether he really went to Mars or only had a memory of the trip implanted in him. For 10 points, name this author of "Paycheck" and "We Can Remember It For You Wholesale" which was adapted into the movie Total Recall.
Philip Kindred Dick
7

135080-)
In one story, a character who has just done this tries to share a large basket of fruit with Missis Butter and Missis Wiggam, and that story titled, "Missis Flinders", was later adapted into the final chapter of Tess Slesinger's novel, The Unpossessed. Another story about this action is told via a one-sided conversation at the end of which Mona has a breakdown, and that story by Dorothy Parker is titled "Lady with a Lamp". In a story by Langston Hughes, this action takes place when Mrs. Art Studevant takes Jessie on a shopping trip to Kansas City, resulting in Jessie's death soon after. Dr. Wilbur Larch secretly performs this action in John Irving's The Cider House Rules, and in another story, one character discussing this action is told, "Will you please please please please please please please stop talking?". For 10 points, name this action central to Ernest Hemingway's "Hills Like White Elephants".
abortion
7

135082-)
One character in this story tells another that her heart is "an autumn garage" and states about another character, "If he were twenty miles in the woods, with both legs broken and a goddam arrow sticking out of his back, he'd crawl back to his cave," when one character expresses concern over that character's lack of a home phone. One character describes a dream about being made to dive for a can of coffee at the bottom of a swimming pool and both central characters make repeated references to the "Jesus Prayer". The title character recounts being asked to shine his shoes for an appearance on the radio show, "It's A Wise Child", and shares his realization that the Fat Lady is everyone, including Christ himself, to reassure his sister who's had a nervous breakdown. For 10 points, name this J. D. Salinger story about the second-youngest Glass child, often paired with "Franny".
"Zooey"
7

135087-)
. One work by this poet states, "The feet, mechanical, go round a wooden way of ground," and ends with a moment remembered "as freezing persons recollect the snow/First chill, then stupor, then the letting go." This poet of "After great pain, a formal feeling comes" wrote about "spreading wide my narrow hands to gather Paradise" in a work which discusses a "fairer house than prose". The speaker of another work by this poet "could not see to see" and states that, during the title event, "The stillness in the room/Was like the stillness in the air/Between the heaves of storm". Another poem states, "Several of nature's people/I know, and they know me," and describes a figure who "occasionally rides" and whose "notice sudden is". For 10 points, name this poet of such works as "I heard a Fly buzz - when I died -" and "A narrow fellow in the grass".
Emily Dickinson
7

135089-)
This author wrote a short story in which a man makes a deal with the devil to obtain a watch that will allow him to stay forever in the happiest moment of his life, but, unable to choose such a moment, he doesn't use it until after he has boarded the title conveyance. This author of "That Hell-Bound Train" suggested that a certain serial killer murdered his victims in order to achieve immortality in his story "Yours Truly--Jack the Ripper". He is best known for a novel in which an investigator arrives in Fairvale to look for $40,000 stolen by Sam Loomis' girlfriend but is murdered by the same character who murdered her. That character is eventually revealed to suffer from a split personality which resulted in him dressing up as his mother. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Norman Bates in his novel Psycho.
Robert Bloch
7

135091-)
One of this poet's works mentions "the most accurately transmitted most/untranslatable language in the universe" and begins, "A woman in the shape of a monster/a monster in the shape of a woman/the skies are full of them". This poet who wrote about Caroline Herschel in her poem "Planetarium" wrote in another poem, "The door itself makes no promises. It is only a door." Another poem by this author of "Prospective Immigrants Please Note", describes the title creatures as "bright topaz denizens of a world of green" who will "go on prancing, proud and unafraid". The speaker of another poem states, "I am blacking out and yet/my mask is powerful/it pumps my blood with power" as she performs the title action alone and "not like Cousteau with his/assiduous team". For 10 points, name this poet of "Aunt Jennifer's Tigers" and "Diving into the Wreck".
Adrienne Rich
7

135092-)
This author wrote a story in which the architect Quintus Teal designs a house in the shape of a net for a 4-dimensional figure, but it collapses into an actual tesseract after an earthquake strikes. This author of "And He Built A Crooked House" created a character who is assisted by President Slayton Ford in escaping from Earth after his community comes under attack from "short-lifers". That member of the Howard Families is Lazarus Long, who appears in this author's novels Methuselah's Children and Time Enough for Love. In another novel by this author, one character defines God as "one who groks" leading to the conclusion, "Thou art God." In that novel, Nurse Gillian helps the protagonist escape from Bethesda Hospital where he is admitted when he returns to Earth after being raised among the Martians. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Valentine Michael Smith in Stranger in a Strange Land.
Robert Anson Heinlein
7

135093-)
One poem by this man describes "Ten frozen parsnips hanging in the weather" and the speaker of that poem hears "A cry of Absence, Absence, in the heart". The speaker of another poem states, "I was dapper when I dangled in my pepper-and-salt" and describes the title character as "Bride and Princess, who'll go down a leafy archway" to a "castle in the gloom". This poet of "Winter Remembered" and "Emily Hardcastle, Spinster" described a person who "harried unto the pond/The lazy geese" and whose "wars were bruited in our high window". That poem states, "There was such speed in her little body/And such lightness in her footfall" that "her brown study/Astonishes us all." For 10 points, name this poet of "Bells for John Whiteside's Daughter".
John Crowe Ransom
7

135095-)
This poem ends with a mention of "the imagined pine, the imagined jay" and it describes a moment "final in the way/The thinking of art is final when/The thinking of god is smoky dew." The speaker wonders, "Do I sit, deformed, a naked egg,/Catching at Good-bye, harvest moon,/Without seeing the harvest or the moon?" Another part begins with a description of a "vivid, florid, turgid sky", and the speaker states, "I cannot bring a world quite round/Although I patch it as I can," as the title figure notes, "Things as they are/Are changed upon [the title entity]." For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poem about a player of a colourful instrument.
: "The Man With the Blue Guitar"
7

135096-)
This character thinks of Mozart when he realizes his interest in another character has become "brotherly", and that character goes away to New York to try to stop this character from falling in love with her. In one scene, this character adopts the alias Sam Weller and is revealed to have been hiding in a closet all along while one group was deciding whether to allow him to join the Pickwick Club. He saves a character who falls through thin ice after another character had purposely failed to warn her, and in his first appearance, offers his carriage to a character who has sprained her ankle while dancing in high heels. He is discouraged from pursuing his musical talent because his mother was an Italian musician whom his grandfather disliked, and he reveals that his tutor, Mr. Brooke, was the one who stole Meg's missing glove. Eventually marrying Amy March, for 10 points, name this wealthy young neighbour of the central family in Little Women.
Theodore "Teddy" "Laurie" Lawrence [accept any part]
7

135099-)
This story quotes from Byron's "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage" to describe how one character could not "learn that tempted Fate will leave the loftiest star". The main character excitedly approaches a burning building before realizing it is his own home and finds his mother killed in the ruins. That character is earlier startled by the sight of a rabbit and attempts to climb onto the back of creatures he initially mistakes for bears. Those crawling figures are actually soldiers returning from a battle which the deaf-mute protagonist slept through. For 10 points, name this short story about a bloody battle of the American Civil War, by Ambrose Bierce.
"Chickamauga"
7

135103-)
At one point, the speaker of this work parenthetically asks, "Now am I free to be poetical?" The speaker notes that "Earth's the right place for love", after stating that he would like to temporarily leave it when he feels that "life is too much like a pathless wood/Where your face burns and tickles with the cobwebs/Broken across it." The speaker uses the image of "girls on hands and knees that throw their hair/Before them" to describe the title things, and states, "Such heaps of broken glass to sweep away/You'd think the inner dome of heaven had fallen." He imagines a figure "too far from town to learn baseball" "kicking his way down through the air to the ground" and riding the title things "until he took the stiffness out of them", but notes that "swinging doesn't bend them down to stay". For 10 points, name this poem in which the speaker observes the title trees after an ice-storm, a poem by Robert Frost.
"Birches"
7

135117-)
One poem in this collection describes a figure "performing entrechats and sleight-of-foot tricks... all without mistaking any thing for what it may not be". The speaker of another poem in this collection wants "a way to be devised/to destroy all nationalisms/without killing anybody" and repeats the phrase "a new rebirth of wonder" at the end of each stanza. This collection containing "Constantly Risking Absurdity" and "I Am Waiting" also includes a poem that states, "Outside the leaves were falling as they died" and ends, "Too soon! Too soon!". The speaker of that poem "first fell in love with unreality" at the title place, and the most well-know poem from this collection describes people who "writhe upon the page in a veritable rage of adversity". For 10 points, name this collection which includes "The Pennycandystore Beyond the El" and "In Goya's Greatest Scenes We Seem to See", written by Lawrence Ferlinghetti.
A Coney Island of the Mind
7

135119-)
One character in this story calls on the Father of the Father of Nadd, but that wise man can only chew his beard when confronted by the title objects. A group of black magicians in this story is dismissed when they reveal that their spell to remove the title objects will take "ten short years". The Grand Duke Wilfred's plan to throw the title character off a tower is stopped at the last minute, and other attempts to get rid of the title objects, which grow increasingly more elaborate, involve Yeoman the Bowman and an executioner who cannot chop off the title character's head. For 10 points, the last of the title objects is only successfully removed after the king offers a bag of gold for it in what Dr. Seuss story about a boy with many hats?
The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins
7

135122-)
The "fall from physical grace" of one character in this play "should not suggest debauchery" but rather "a great weariness." That character suggests a companion will have to wear a prosthesis like Freud's if he continues to smoke, before proclaiming ($) "Time Magazine isn't for blockheads." Frames in one location mentioned in this play are empty, because their owner has no pictures to put there, but he does own pornographic playing cards. One character in this play repeats (*) "that's the way the cookie crumbles" while talking to another about why he only has two daughters, each of whom owns a parakeet. As that character dies he asks "Could I have planned all this?" before realizing "I think I did." For ten points, identify this play which sees Peter accidentally stab Jerry while they sit on a Central Park bench, a work by Edward Albee.
The Zoo Story
7

135123-)
Chaff lost his hand during one of these events, and Maysilee Donner was killed by birds in another. An earthquake broke a dam during one of these events, causing a tsunami which only Annie Cresta survived. Caesar Flickerman interviewed the participants in some of these events. Johanna Mason allied with ($) Finnick Odair in the last of these events, which was engineered by Plutarch Heavensbee and ended when Beetee harnessed lightning to destroy the location where it occurred. Delly Cartwright assists with the recovery of one participant of these events, and (*) Seneca Crane is executed after one whose two victors attempted to commit suicide by eating nightlock. For ten points, name these events in which tributes such as Peeta Mellark and Katniss Everdeen fight to the death, the namesake of a series by Suzanne Collins.
hunger games
7

135131-)
This novel opens at a Rotary Club dinner where speeches are given by General Edgeways and Mrs. Adelaide Tarr Gimmitch. The protagonist of this novel realizes he doesn't want to go to prison after an interaction with his dog Foolish, as well as fearing his former handyman ($) Shad Ledue's fondness for his daughter Sissy. This novel sees Emannuel Coon defect and support Walter Trowbridge's revolution against leaders like General Haik and (*) Lee Sarason, the former right-hand man of the President of the new Corpo government. For ten points, name this novel about newspaper editor Doremus Jessup's opposition to the fascist regime of Buzz Windrip, written by Sinclair Lewis.
It Can't Happen Here
7

135136-)
This work mentions the possibility of women "blowing joyous airs" and "treading an epithalamic measure" for a ceremony presided over by the "semi-barbaric" king. The narrator of this short story mentions how a ($) decision was "indicated in an instant" after "days and nights of anguished deliberation" about the various ways the central female could lose her (*) lover. The events of this story form the backdrop of "The Discourager of Hesitancy," in which people wonder what lurked behind the chosen door on the right. For ten points, identify this Frank Stockton story, the protagonist of which must choose between a beautiful maiden and a savage beast.
"The Lady, or the Tiger?"
7

135141-)
One poem attributed to this author opens on a "spring day" when "the air / Smelled like a locker room;" a "day for a lay" on which the author experiences the title ($) "Platonic Blow." Another of this author's poems mentions "the lie of Authority / whose buildings grope the sky" that "no one exists alone." This poet described "some untidy spot" where "the torturer's horse / Scratches its innocent behind on a tree" and "the (*) dogs go on with their doggy life" in a poem that begins "About suffering they were never wrong, the Old Masters." For ten points, identify this author of a poem about Brueghel's Landscape with the Fall of Icarus, "Musee des Beaux Arts," and "September 1, 1939."
W. H. Auden
7

135144-)
In this novel, Nathan Appleman prefers experimental psychology to the methodology of Freud. A large group of people is impressed when this novel's protagonist finds an intentional mistake in another character's ($) gematriya. One character in this novel tells the story of his brilliant brother dying in Auschwitz to explain why he barely speaks to his son. This novel's protagonist meets Billy Merritt and former boxer Tony Savo in the hospital after an (*) eye injury. That injury came while he pitched to a boy who chooses to attend Columbia and reject his rabbi father's Hasidism. For ten points, identify this novel in which Danny Saunders befriends Reuven Malter, the most famous work of Chaim Potok.
The Chosen
7

135148-)
One poem by this author describes how "A spirit sped / Through spaces of night" calling "God! God!" before "a swift hand / a sword from the sky / smote him, / And he was dead." The second poem in his most famous collection mentions "three little birds in a row" with "quaint countenances" who laugh at a passerby.  The first poem in that collection mentions the "rush upon the wind" of the ($) "ride of sin." The speaker of another of his poems asks "Is it good, friend?" of a "creature, naked, bestial / who, squatting upon the ground / Held his heart in his hands / And ate of it." The title figures of one of his poems (*) come from the sea, with a "clash and clash of hoof and heel" and "clang and clang of spear and shield." For ten points, identify this poet of The Black Riders and Other Lines, who wrote about Henry Fleming in The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane
7

135156-)
One character who appears in a vision in this play claims ecstatics, not physics, make the engine of creation run, before saying "The stiffening of your penis is of no consequence." In this play, dreams of a trip to Antarctica come while the ($) Mormon Harper is addicted to Valium, and her husband Joe has an affair with Louis Ironson. This very lengthy play has two parts: Millennium Approaches and Perestroika. One character in this play insists that he has liver cancer, and finds out he has been disbarred shortly before his death, though he still hears the singing of (*) Ethel Rosenberg. That character, like Prior Walter, is dying of AIDS, and is the anti-Communist lawyer Roy Cohn. For ten points, identify this "Gay Fantasia on National Themes" by Tony Kushner.
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes
7

135157-)
In one story from this collection, Mary Ann acquires a leopard pelt and wears a necklace of tongues. In the short story "Love," one character recounts how he wanted to tie a girl to a bed so he could just touch her knee. In another story in it, ($) Curtis Lemon insists on having his tooth pulled after fainting before visiting "The Dentist." One story in this collection sees Norman Bowker unable to save Kiowa from death in a sewage field on the banks of the (*) Song Tra Bong. The title story of this collection mentions letters from Martha and sees the death of Ted Lavender. For ten points, identify this set of stories about a squad of soldiers in Vietnam commanded by Jimmy Cross, written by Tim O'Brien.
The Things They Carried
7

135162-)
One character in this play says she wishes she were a man, as people are always introducing her to beautiful women. A home in this play would have cost about fifteen thousand dollars when it was built, in the lawn of which is the ($) stump of an apple tree blown over by the wind. George returns from visiting his father to prevent his sister Ann from marrying Chris, because Chris's father "destroyed [her] family" by stating he had the (*) flu on a certain day, though it is later revealed he hadn't been sick in fifteen years. For ten points, identify this play centering on Larry Keller's disappearance and Steve Deever's imprisonment for selling faulty airplane cylinders, a work of Arthur Miller.
All My Sons 
7

135171-)
The dress of the first girl this character had sex with is still stuck in a tree outside his former house. This man asks if he will get a crown of thorns while on a cross-shaped table, and he convinces Spivey and the prostitute Candy to take him and his friends on a ($) fishing trip. This man persuades his superiors to allow him to watch the World Series at a time when television isn't supposed to be on. This character is unable to lift a control panel, unlike his roommate, a Native American that (*) pretends to be deaf-mute who smothers him at the end of the novel in which he appears. His most violent action is prompted by the suicide of the stuttering Billy Bibbit, and this character is lobotomized after trying to strangle Nurse Ratched. For ten points, identify this protagonist of Ken Kesey's One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.
Randle McMurphy
7

135174-)
The speaker of this poem notes that "If nothing once, you nothing lose" because "when you die you are the same," though he "grieves to see your future doom" at the hands of "Unpitying ($) frosts, and Autumn's power." The subject of this poem is "By Nature's self in white arrayed" near "soft waters murmuring by" a place where "no busy hand" will "provoke a tear," nor  (*)"roving foot shall crush thee here." The speaker of this poem claims that "the space between" birth and death "is but an hour / The frail duration" of the title object.  This poem describes a "Fair flow, that dost so comely grow." For ten points, identify this poem by the "Poet of the American Revolution," Philip Freneau.
"The Wild Honey-Suckle"
7

135176-)
In one of this author's plays, a woman rises from the dead to utter a prophecy that "masterless men will take a master," which turns out to be the Conqueror, an empty suit of armor, prompting the Radio Announcer to note "people invent their oppressors." In another of his plays, ($) Zuss and Nickles act as God and Satan as the title character rejects the comfort of History, Science, and Religion. One poem by this author of The (*) Fall of the City mentions something "silent as the sleeve-worn stone / Of casement ledges," and claims the title stuff should be "motionless in time / As the moon climbs." Another of this author's poems mentions "the always coming on / the always rising of the night" and is a response to "To His Coy Mistress." For ten points, identify this author of J.B., "Ars Poetica," and "You, Andrew Marvell."
Archibald MacLeish
7

135178-)
Judith Weir was inspired by this author to compose a concerto for 10 instruments entitled Musicians Wrestle Everywhere, and Leon Kirchner's The Twilight Stood is based on this author's "There Came a Wind Like a Bugle". The first of Simon Holt's Two Movements for String Quartet, based on poems of this author, begins with a rapid viola solo that imitates the ($) flight of an insect and is titled "Blue -- uncertain stumbling Buzz". Aaron Copland set works such as "Heart, we will forget him!" and "I felt a funeral, in my brain" in his 12 Poems of this author, and the third movement of John Adams's Harmonium is based on this poet's (*) "Wild Nights." For ten points, name this reclusive "Belle of Amherst", whose "I heard a fly buzz when I died" and "Because I could not stop for death" have often been set to music.
Emily Dickinson
7

135179-)
This author of a well-received book on streptothricosis recalls that the hairdresser sometimes has trouble drying his wife's hair. About this character, it is said that "The ($) Old Man'll get us through, the Old Man ain't afraid of Hell!" This character yells "You miserable cur!" while punching a man in the chin, after earlier claiming he could have killed Gregory Fitzhurst from three hundred feet with his (*) left hand, though that doesn't change the fact his wife yells at him for forgetting the what's-its-name. After saying "To hell with the handkerchief," this man faces a firing squad, though he's actually just smoking outside the drugstore. For ten points, name this character, whose "Secret Life" was written about by James Thurber.
Walter Mitty (accept either)
7

135184-)
The narrators of this poem "tell you, tapping on [their] brows / The story as it should be," including no "kindly veil between / Her visions and those [they] have seen." This poem's subject remembers a "blurred sagacity / That ($) once had the power to sound" another character, and hopes that he "sees that he will not be lost / And waits and looks around him." Closing with the image of "a (*) stairway to the sea / Where down the blind are driven," this poem begins "She fears him, and will always ask / What fated her to choose him." For ten points, name this poem by Edwin Arlington Robinson.
"Eros Turannos"
7

135190-)
While looking at his former employer's body, one character created by this author says "God blimey, but he died in the height of style, anyhow!" One of this author's plays ends with a character complaining "Fog, fog, fog, all the bloody time" and opens in a saloon owned by Johnny the Priest. That play sees the daughter of Chris Christopherson fall in love with ($) Mat Burke, who is rescued by her father's barge. In another of his plays, Lem leads a rebellion against the title character, who interacts with Smithers and claims he can only be killed by a (*) silver bullet. In another of his plays, Don Parrit jumps off a fire escape after Hickey reveals that he killed his wife to the inhabitant's of Harry Hope's saloon. For ten points, identify this author of Anna Christie, The Emperor Jones, and The Iceman Cometh.
Eugene O'Neill
7

135195-)
This story was allegedly a posthumously published work of a man who studied "genuine" families from a certain country "with the zeal of a bookworm." Children in this story are described as being as ragged and wild as if they belonged to nobody, and one character refuses to work on his farm, where nothing grows well. This story's protagonist listens to schoolmaster ($) Derrick read lengthy words in newspapers while in Nicholas Vedder's inn, which has the portrait of the country's current leader on the front. The protagonist of this story declares himself to be a loyal subject of (*) George III, only to find out that he has missed the Revolutionary War. The title character drinks a bit too much while watching Henry Hudson's ghostly crew play ninepins. For ten points, identify this story of a man who sleeps in the Catskills for twenty years, written by Washington Irving.
"Rip van Winkle"
7

135199-)
Two of these objects can be seen in the most famous artwork by Francis Cugat. After finishing a call to Philadelphia, the narrator of a certain novel sees that a man with a distinctive variety of these objects has ($) crashed a car. Despite being "dimmed a little by many paintless days under sun and rain," another group of these objects brood over a "solemn dumping ground." Some of these objects are seen on a (*) billboard in the Valley of Ashes, and a man nicknamed after them is one of only three to attend a funeral. For ten points, identify these body parts seen on a billboard of Doctor T.J. Eckleburg, two of which appear on the front cover of The Great Gatsby.
eyes
7

135204-)
This character first appears due to Shute's absence at a funeral, and he later spills wine on the ground at a wedding. When he is dumped, this man asks his former fiancee ($) Elizabeth not to leave him "in this miserable obscurity forever." After a man from Westbury visits this character on his deathbed, he shouts that he sees the title object with everyone around him, asking "Why do you tremble at me alone?" After a (*) funeral, people "have a fancy" that this man and the deceased maiden are walking hand in hand. This resident of Milford was possibly based on the real story of Joseph Moody, who had accidentally killed a friend. For ten points, identify this protagonist of a Nathaniel Hawthorne story, a minister who refuses to remove his black veil.
Reverend Hooper
7

135206-)
Swede Masin ultimately played this sport professionally, and inspired the character of Swede Levov in Philip Roth's American Pastoral. While he and John Wheelright are executing a technique designed for this game to save a number of Vietnamese children, ($) Owen Meany is wounded by an exploding grenade. One man dies of a heart attack while playing this game during his exile in Florida after sleeping with Pru, the wife of his son Nelson. Marty Tothero coached that player of this sport, who sells (*) MagiPeeler and has an affair with Ruth Leonard. For ten points, identify this sport once played by John Updike's character "Rabbit" Angstrom.
basketball
7

135213-)
One of this author's works describes one who would willingly "sleep immodestly, a most / Incarnadine and carnal ghost" after removing "false accoutrements of sense" like his loathed "fleshy clothes." The speaker of one of this author's poems parenthetically mentions that he ($) "measures time by how a body sways" in a poem which describes how he "nibbled meekly" from the title figure's "proffered hand." A villanelle by this author asks "We think by feeling. What is there to know?" after saying "I (*) feel my fate in what I cannot fear / I learn by going where I have to go." The title character of another poem by this author of "Epidermal Macabre" "beat time on my head / With a palm caked hard by dirt" and has enough whiskey on his breath "to make a small boy dizzy." That poem  For ten points, identify this poet of "I Knew a Woman," "The Waking," and "My Papa's Waltz."
Theodore Roethke
7

135219-)
In one scene in this novel, Marie Poont recounts how she hit Aleck with a baseball bat. The protagonist of this novel realizes that another character thinks he is simple, and compares himself to a pet goose which has been spared the ax. The monkey Rocco dies of tuberculosis in this novel, much to the chagrin of his owner ($) Lucas Asphalter. The protagonist of this novel finds his grandfather's old gun hidden inside a bunch of rubles while visiting Tante Taube's house. This novel's title character lived in Ludeyville after leaving his first wife (*) Daisy, and his second wife has an affair with a peg-legged red-headed man after moving to Chicago. For ten points, identify this work titled after the former friend of Valentine Gersbach and husband of Madeline, the letter-writing protagonist of this Saul Bellow novel.
Herzog
7

135223-)
This author's one act plays includes ones about shoe salesman Charlie Colton and about Flora's seduction after her husband Jake burns down Silva Vicarro's mill. In addition to 27 Wagons Full of Cotton and The Last of My Solid Gold Watches, this author wrote a play whose title entity is tied to a ($) pole by a bunch of Mexicans. That play's protagonist is accused of raping Charlotte Goodall while at Maxine Faulk's hotel, and is the Reverend (*) T. Lawrence Shannon. A production of another of his plays was halted due to the indecency of a condom falling out of a man's pocket; that play sees Alvaro get the title decoration on his chest like Serafina's late husband. For ten points, identify this author if The Night of the Iguana and The Rose Tattoo, who also penned A Streetcar Named Desire.
Tennessee Williams
7

135228-)
One man in this novel gets drunk and misses a train station meeting with a woman he had previously taken to a dance. The antagonist of this novel forces the date of Gowan Stevens to have sex with Red while she is in Miss Reba's brothel, after having earlier shot ($) Tommy. That woman lies at a trial, causing the lynching of bootlegger Lee Goodwin, despite the best efforts of lawyer Horace Benbow. This book's central female character is raped by Popeye with a corncob and is also the subject of the author's later (*) Requiem for a Nun. For ten points, identify this William Faulkner novel about the tribulations of Temple Drake.
Sanctuary
7

135234-)
The Tleilaxu can produce an artificial variety of this substance in their axolotl tanks. This is the chief substance controlled by CHOAM, and the Kwisatz Haderach eventually possesses large amounts of it shortly after drinking the Water of Life. After losing land rich in this substance, one man bites a poison gas-containing fake tooth given to him by Doctor ($) Yueh in an attempt to kill Vladimir Harkonnen. To enhance their powers, Reverend Mothers of the Bene Gesserit consume this Little Maker-produced substance which is found in the same location as the native Fremen who worship the (*) Muad'dib. While gathering this substance on the planet Arrakis, one must be very wary of sandworms, which can be ridden by Paul Atreides. For ten points, identify this drug central to Frank Herbert's Dune.
spice (or melange)
7

135239-)
The speaker of this poem asks "What shall we say who have the knowledge / Carried to the heart?" after claiming "Night is the beginning and the end / And in between the ends" is "distraction." This poem's speaker claims that "You know the rage" of ($) "muted Zeno and Parmenides" and "you know" "the twilight certainty of an animal," like the "hound bitch / Toothless and dying, in a musty cellar / Hears the wind only." This poem mentions how the (*) "leaves flying, plunge, and expire" and begins "Row after row with strict impunity / The headstones yield their names to the element." For ten points, identify this Allen Tate poem that memorializes Southerners who perished during the Civil War.
"Ode to the Confederate Dead"
7

135240-)
In Act III of this play, a man working for Ercole dressed in an ape suit jumps Pasquale at a party, leading to Gennaro declaring himself Duke. Another character in this play, the true Duke of Faggio, leads an army against Squamuglia to avenge the murder of his father by Angelo. After reading a letter, Niccolo is only able to utter the initial T of a certain organization before being killed, though he was not an actual ($) Thurn und Taxis messenger. For ten points, identify this revenge play written by the fictional Richard Wharfinger, a performance of which is seen by (*) Oedipa Maas in The Crying of Lot 49.
The Courier's Tragedy
7

135243-)
One character in this play posits that wars are caused by men not knowing who has the larger penis, and that "what we call a civilized society" is simply a world "run by men with pricks the size of pins." The protagonist of this play commits suicide while his lover smokes and watches. One character in this play refuses to ($) remove her clothes while lying about a pregnancy, and this play's protagonist has multiple affairs after marrying Hilga. This play opens in a jail cell, where the protagonist remembers the performance of a duet in a certain opera by (*) Liling Song. That protagonist, Rene Gallimard, is based on Bernard Boursicot, who had an affair with a male Chinese opera singer that he thought was female. For ten points, identify this David Henry Hwang play whose title borrows from a Puccini opera.
M. Butterfly
7

135244-)
The antagonist of this story is "not what you would call a chivalric old gentleman." One character has a "Michael Angelo's Moses beard" on "the head of a satyr along with the body of an imp" and is called an "old flibbertigibbet" by another character. That woman in this story hears her friend ($) counting down while painting a monocled Idaho cowboy, not long after a conference with a man who recommended she talk about the new winter styles in coat sleeves, to up that friend's (*) chance to one-in-five. At the end of this story, Old Behrman dies of pneumonia after it is revealed he painted the title object outside Sue's window. For ten points, name this short story in which Johnsy refuses to die until the title object falls, written by O. Henry.
"The Last Leaf"
7

135249-)
One poem by this author claims that "It is true the longest drought will end in rain / The longest peace in China will end in strife" though "that calm seems perfectly safe to-night." That poem begins by noting "You'll wait a long, long time for anything much / To happen in heaven." Another of this author's poems implores "Say something to us we can learn!" "Talk Fahrenheit, talk Centigrade" because "to be ($) wholly taciturn / In your reserve is not allowed," though "We grant your loftiness the right / To some obscurity of cloud." That poem says that, "at times the mob is swayed / To carry praise or blame to far," we can do the title action "To stay our minds on and be staid."  For ten points, name this author of (*) "On Looking Up by Chance at the Constellations" and "Choose Something Like a Star."
Robert Frost
7

135250-)
In this novel's epilogue, it is revealed that the head of the Numataka Corporation is actually one character's father, having left him shortly after the atomic bombings of Japan. That character holds up three fingers shortly before dying, which also turns out to be the difference in isotope numbers of uranium used in the bombs, and his name is anagram of ($) N DAKOTA. This novel sees a machine's cooling system damaged after Phil Chartrukian is thrown atop it, and Hulohot is sent to recover a ring, leading to his death at the hands of David Becker. Susan Fletcher works for this novel's antagonist, Trevor Strathmore, who is in charge of an (*) NSA supercomputer. For ten points, identify this novel titled after a supposedly unbreakable code, written by Dan Brown.
Digital Fortress
7

135251-)
A "Tolstoyan monologue" and "Baltasar feast" were cut from this short story while its author was driven by "brevity mania." The title character of this story, at fifty-eight years old, is ready to "enter the stream of life's pleasures," as, "until now he had not really lived, but simply existed," making tons of money off cheap ($) Chinese labor. The daughter of this story's protagonist meets the crown prince of some Asiatic state, and a hotel employee suggests removing the partitions from a long box of soda-water to remove the title character of this short story from the nasty Room 43. That protagonist (*) dies at dinnertime after years of sailing the world aboard the Atlantis. For ten points, identify this short story about a West Coast businessman who dies on Capri, written by Ivan Bunin.
"The Gentleman From San Francisco" (or Gospodin iz San Frantsisco) 
7

135252-)
Some characters in this novel enjoy discoursing in "Fuck Patois." ["PAH-twah"] This novel's title character is advised by her mother to say "and I don't hold with that" when asked to do something. One character in this novel loses his job offer from a Wall Street firm when an article is published by a boy betrayed by Professor Jerome Quat, who loathes the almost entirely black ($) basketball program. The lone white member of that team is inspired by this novel's title character to study philosophy after a paper written for him by Adam Gellin is accused of plagiarism. Two members of the fraternity Saint Ray see the (*) California governor with a fellow student and gain fame by beating up his bodyguard. The protagonist of this novel is an innocent girl from North Carolina, who attends Dupont University with Jojo Johanssen and Hoyt Thorpe. For ten points, identify this novel by Tom Wolfe.
I am Charlotte Simmons
7

135254-)
The protagonist of one story with this location in its title is told "If you eat too much truth at once, you may die of truth." Another story with this word in its title sees the protagonist inquire about the sick Mr. Campbell and George Hart, before telling a friend to give his brother-in-law's address to Mr. Schaeffer. One story with this place name in the title begins "The ($) north and the west and the south are good hunting ground, but it is forbidden to go east." That story ends with the protagonist claiming "We must build again," after he sees a dead "god" while hunting for (*) metal in a ruined city. In another short story with this location in its title, Charlie Wales wants to visit his daughter Honoria. For ten points, identify this location, "by the waters of" which are set a Stephen Vincent Benet short story, and which is "revisited" in a work of F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Babylon
7

135259-)
The central event of this play occurred "near midnight, when the lights of Broadway blazed an electric dawn over the festive crowds below." In one possible ending to this play, the central female character thanks some others for preventing her suicide. John Whitfield's daughter was allegedly married by a character in this play just to facilitate getting a loan. One character in this play is shocked when gangster Larry Regan tells her that a certain man is actually dead, as she had thought he ($) faked his suicide by throwing another man's body off the top of a large building. This play was based on the death of the Swedish match magnate Ivar Kreuger, and it sees members of the audience selected to play the role of the jury. For ten points, identify this play about Karen Andre's possible murder of her employer Bjorn Faulkner on the title date, written by (*) Ayn Rand.
The Night of January 16th
7

135263-)
The title character of one story in this collection says he would not like to be a doctor, because they're always talking about "cells and things." That character disputes Nicholson's notion that teaching children ($) meditation would create a generation of ignoramuses, before dying when his little sister accidentally pushes him into an empty pool. In another story in this collection, a girl is reminded that she was mean to a dog after complaining about Sharon Lipschutz sitting on a piano bench with the protagonist. That story opens with (*) Muriel phoning her mother as Sybil Carpenter talks to her husband Seymour Glass on the beach. For ten points, identify this collection that includes "Teddy" and "A Perfect Day for Bananafish," written by JD Salinger.
Nine Stories
7

135267-)
One character in this book has a cage full of canaries even though she hates them, because she once agreed to take care of a canary for a friend, leading her other friends to assume that she liked canaries. Another character accidentally addresses a letter to Ellen Sedgwick instead of Ellery Sedgwick. The narrator of this book describes driving around and picking up "military god-sons" during the First World War. The names of nationalities and languages are never capitalized in this book, perhaps because of the time that the main characters spent in Paris. The narrator of this book talks about the "wives of geniuses" she has sat with, and describes her interactions with Matisse, Picasso, and Carl Van Vechten, among others, as well as the composition of works like Three Lives and The Making of Americans. For 10 points, name this book by Gertrude Stein which purports to be an autobiography of her long-time lover.
The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas
7

135271-)
One of this poet's works describes how the word "blackberry" loses its meaning so that "a word is elegy to what it signifies." That poem, "Meditation at Lagunitas," appears in his collection Praise. He appeared in the largely panned film Wildflowers, reading selections from his own poetry. An essay by this poet ends with an image of helium balloons attached to tents "occupying the air," and describes how his wife was knocked down by a deputy on the Berkeley campus. That essay, about the Occupy movement, is called "Poet-Bashing Police." His non-fiction includes the book Twentieth Century Pleasures. Known for his translations of Czeslaw Milosz and Japanese haiku, he included a number of politically-charged poems in his Pulitzer-winning Time and Materials. For 10 points, name this former Poet Laureate of the United States from California.
Robert Hass
7

135273-)
One of this author's novels contains characters like Laura Treadwell and Malcolm Dudley, and its title refers to Henry French's desire to eliminate racism in the city of Clarendon. This author's early works were praised by William Dean Howells, who nonetheless criticized one of his later works as being "bitter, bitter." The title character of one of his stories, Liza Jane, is the subject of a speech given by Mr. Ryder to the Blue Veins Society. The first published story by this author of The Colonel's Dream and "The Wife of His Youth" was entitled "The Goophered Grapevine." He wrote a novel in which Sandy Campbell nearly gets lynched after being framed by Tom Delamere, who also murders Ms. Ochiltree. Those events, as well as the racism of Olivia and her husband Major Carteret, incite race riots based on the ones which took place in Wilmington, North Carolina. For 10 points, name this author of The Marrow of Tradition.
Charles Waddell Chesnutt
7

135278-)
In one of this author's last novels, Maria commits suicide because her face is destroyed when a gang attacks her and her boyfriend Bobby, who befriends a Holocaust survivor named Moishe. He called one of his own novels "the most disturbing book ever written," and could not read it for years after he wrote it. That novel explores the psyche of an enraged man who is in jail for a crime he claims not to have committed. This author of The Willow Tree and The Room wrote a novel ending with a coda called "Landsend" and including sections titled "The Queen Is Dead" and "Another Day, Another Dollar," which includes a controversial scene in which a prostitute named Tralala is gang-raped. He also wrote a novel about the drug addicts Harry, Marion, Tyrone, and Sara, which was made into a movie by Darren Aronofsky. For 10 points, name this author of Requiem for a Dream and Last Exit to Brooklyn.
Hubert Selby, Jr.
7

135283-)
One character in this play is asked by a woman where seagulls sleep at night. One scene in this play ends with a character yelling "You slut!" at his wife before a pause which is punctuated by a cry of "Ahoy there!" from his brother. One character in this play says that he is called by "the beauty of the far off and unknown" and "the mystery and spell of the East." That character crawls into a ditch so he can die watching the sun rise, shortly after his brother returns from Buenos Aires after losing most of his fortune speculating in wheat. Robert is a bookish romantic who marries Ruth, a woman who takes care of her wheelchair-bound mother, rather than join Uncle Dick on the Sunda, but he turns out to be unsuited to the farming life. For 10 points, name this play about the Mayo family, a Pulitzer-winning 1918 play by Eugene O'Neill.
Beyond the Horizon
7

135292-)
The collection named for this poem contains a poem whose speaker sees the shadow of Vachel Lindsay shooting himself in the head, although in real life Lindsay committed suicide by drinking lye. That collection also contains a poem whose speaker finds a lion in his living room, which refuses to eat him but says "I will be back again." The collection named for this poem ends with three poems based on the poet's experiences drinking ayahuasca, and it contains a poem written "in Amsterdam in the Cosmos" entitled "Poem Rocket." At one point, the speaker of this poem addresses "Death which is the mother of the universe!" This poem's subject talks about the "3 big sticks" that were left in her back, and the speaker talks about her "eyes of abortion" and "eyes of stroke." For 10 points, name this poem about the death of the poet's mother Naomi by Allen Ginsberg, named after a Jewish prayer for the dead.
"Kaddish"
7

135295-)
One character in this novel keeps a German shell in his pocket as a reminder not to make any rash allegiances. One chapter of this novel compares Hitler to Parzival killing the red knight for his armor, and Hitler is referred to as "the sleepwalker" throughout the book. The opening section, "Steel in Motion," compares a telephone to an octopus, and the remaining sections are a series of "Pincer Movements" spanning the period from 1914 to 1975, including detailed accounts of the Siege of Leningrad and the Battle of Stalingrad. This novel embellishes the love triangle between Roman Karmen, Elena Konstantinovskaya, and Dmitri Shostakovich, and other historical figures in this book include Anna Akhmatova and Kurt Gerstein. For 10 points, name this novel by William T. Vollmann.
Europe Central
7

135297-)
In one short story, this author wrote about Argaven, who travels to the planet Ollul and returns after sixty years having only aged twelve years. Another of her stories deals with Laia, a philosopher whose ideas inspire a revolution which leads to the establishment of an anarchist society with no concept of property. That story, "The Day Before the Revolution," is a prelude to a novel about Shevek, who attempts to reconcile the societies of Anarres and Urras. She critiqued utilitarianism in the story "The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas," and wrote collections like The Compass Rose and The Wind's Twelve Quarters. This daughter of Alfred Kroeber included City of Illusions and The Left Hand of Darkness in her Hainish Cycle, along with The Dispossessed. For 10 points, name this science fiction author who also wrote a cycle including the novel A Wizard of Earthsea.
Ursula K. Le Guin
7

135299-)
In the first story of this collection, the landlord Kookoo cannot resist the temptation to look inside a mysterious trunk in the room rented by the title character. In another story in this collection, Kristian Koppig falls in love with the title character, a beautiful mixed-race girl who is falsely believed to be the daughter of Madame John. Those stories are "'Sieur George" and "'Tite Poulette." It also contains a story in which Injin Charlie refuses to sell the title estate to the Colonel and one in which Little White convinces the townspeople not to shivaree the title character, whose mansion is suspected of being haunted by the ghost of his half-brother Jacques. Those stories are "Belles Demoiselles Plantation" and "Jean-ah Poquelin." For 10 points, name this collection of short stories set in Louisiana by George Washington Cable.
Old Creole Days
7

135302-)
The section headings in this short story form a sentence ending with the phrase "a unique ontology of violence and disaster" and mentioning Tallis's assassination fantasies. This story was originally published as a pamphlet, and was later collected in a book, where it was followed by a story about the Kennedy assassination inspired by Alfred Jarry's "The Crucifixion Considered as an Uphill Bicycle Race."  This story notes that people see faces as either circumcised or uncircumcised, and that its subject has a face which is perceived as a "penile erection." Other sections of this story deal with a "conceptual auto-disaster," describing studies in which people were asked to imagine this story's subject dying in a car crash. For 10 points, name this short story from The Atrocity Exhibition by J. G. Ballard, written as a scientific paper about the sexual appeal of a former Republican president.
"Why I Want to Fuck Ronald Reagan"
7

135307-)
This critic has contrasted "Marlovian cartoons" with the characters of Shakespeare, claiming that Faulconbridge the Bastard is Shakespeare's first great character, and that his originality lies in his talent for foregrounding and his characters' penchant for self-overhearing. He argued that the Pentateuch is partially based on a document which was written by a woman as a literary, rather than a religious, work in The Book of J. The influence of Jewish mysticism on the criticism of this self-identified gnostic is apparent in his Kabbalah and Criticism.  More famously, he championed purely aesthetic criticism over the so-called "school of resentment" in one work, and he adopted Lucretius' idea of the clinamen in his examination of how writers swerve from their predecessors in The Anxiety of Influence. For 10 points, name this American literary critic who wrote The Western Canon.
Harold Bloom
7

135311-)
A checkers-playing robot named Checkers Charley loses to the protagonist of this novel because of a loose connection. The protagonist views a propagandistic play in which a young engineer points out that John Averageman is richer than Caesar could ever have dreamed of being. In another reference to Caesar, this novel's first sentence is "Ilium, New York, is divided into three parts." The Shah of Bratpuhr tours America to learn about its culture, but cannot understand how the residents of Homestead are not slaves. The protagonist of this novel is up for a job at the Pittsburgh plant, but James Lasher and Ed Finnerty rope him into joining the Ghost Shirt Society, which rebels against post-Second Industrial Revolution America. For 10 points, name this Kurt Vonnegut novel about Paul Proteus, in which the automation of society is represented by the title instrument.
Player Piano
7

135314-)
This work refers to Henry James' late style as "a Byzantine fabric of shuddering grandeur." It quotes Lady Caroline Lamb's Glenarvon in comparing Lord Byron to Elvis Presley. This work says that "Infant Joy" is "Blake's most neglected major poem," and claims that "The Crystal Cabinet" represents the entrapment of the penis in the vagina. This work champions the little-known novel Fragoletta by Henri de Latouche, noting its influence on Balzac's Sarrasine and Gautier's Mademoiselle de Maupin. This work contrasts the Venus of Willendorf with the Bust of Nefertiti in a discussion of the Apollonian and the Dionysian, and compares Emily Dickinson to the Marquis de Sade, who the author favors over Rousseau. It includes extensive discussion of the "western eye" and androgynes in Western culture. For 10 points, name this work of literary criticism by Camille Paglia.
Sexual Personae
7

135324-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems recalls a conversation in which she is asked "Will you never love me?" amongst the "hunted hurrying people" in a subway station. The introductory poem to one of her volumes ends "And when I think of you, I am at rest." That collection also contains the poems "Night Song at Amalfi" and "Summer Night, Riverside," and an interlude entitled "Songs Out of Sorrow," and is called Love Songs. The speaker of one of her poems says, "When I am dead and over me bright April shakes out her rain-drenched hair, tho' you should lean above me broken-hearted, I shall not care." Another of her poems claims that "not one would mind, neither bird nor tree, if mankind perished utterly." That poem imagines "swallows circling with their shimmering sound" and appears in a Ray Bradbury story of the same name. For 10 points, name this poet of "There Will Come Soft Rains."
Sara Teasdale
7

135327-)
A minor character in this novel has a name which is a pun on the phrase nihil obstat. That character works for a company which builds a desert in the middle of Ohio. In this novel, a character orders nine steaks at a restaurant as part of his plan to become so fat that he takes up the entire universe. At the end of this novel, an animal dubbed Ugolino the Significant appears on a television show hosted by Reverend Sykes. That animal also goes by the name of Vlad the Impaler. Stonecipheco is working on developing a pineal-gland-based additive for their baby food products, and another company in this novel is the publishing house Frequent and Vigorous, where the main character works as a switchboard operator. For 10 points, name this novel in which Lenore Beadsman searches for her missing great-grandmother, the first novel by David Foster Wallace.
The Broom of the System
7

135331-)
In one sequel to this novel, a former professor who is now a janitor discusses capitalism and socialism with the protagonist. That sequel, written by Richard Michaelis, features a revolution led by the protagonist's love interest. Another sequel to this novel was written by Solomon Schindler, who also translated it into German. A sequel to this novel by C. H. Stone purports to be written by Berrian, who is the greatest novelist of the era in which this novel takes place. William Morris wrote News from Nowhere as a response to this novel. The only sequel to this novel written by its own author contains the parable of the water-tank and is called Equality. In the wake of its publication in 1887, over 160 Nationalist Clubs were formed to try to implement its ideals. For 10 points, name this novel in which Julian West wakes up in a socialist utopia, by Edward Bellamy.
Looking Backward: 2000-1887
7

135338-)
In the second chapter of this novel, "The Gold Cure," a character drinks coffee with gold flakes in it and thinks about how much it costs. One character in this novel collects songs which make use of pauses and graphs their duration and effectiveness. A chapter of this novel which parodies the footnote-heavy style of David Foster Wallace contains an article written by Jules about his interview with Kitty Jackson, including a description of his attempt to rape her in Central Park. In this novel, Dolly works as a PR agent for a murderous dictator known as the General. Its title comes from a line spoken by Bosco about the cruelty of time. This novel's first chapter describes the kleptomania of Sasha, the assistant to the record company executive Bennie Salazar. Its structural innovations include a chapter written as a PowerPoint presentation. For 10 points, name this Pulitzer-winning novel by Jennifer Egan.
A Visit from the Goon Squad
7

135342-)
In The Poetics of Mind, R. W. Gibbs says that this poem is an embellishment of the conceptual metaphor of love as a nutrient, quoting a version of this poem whose last line is "from manzanilla come." The second stanza of this poem describes the sky as "molten" and mentions "reeling through endless summer days." The final stanza of this poem describes "seraphs swing[ing] their snowy hats" and saints running to windows to see the speaker "leaning against the Sun." It also describes how the speaker will not be dissuaded "when landlords turn the drunken bee out of the foxglove's door" or "when butterflies renounce their drams." The speaker of this poem describes herself as an "inebriate of air" and "debauchee of dew," and claims that "not all the vats upon the Rhine yield such an alcohol." For 10 points, name this Emily Dickinson poem about a spiritual intoxication.
"I taste a liquor never brewed" [accept 214]
7

135346-)
This character faints after asking a girl out on a date and being rejected. He makes a speech about wanting to be aligned with "the axial lines of life." He gets kicked in the head by a horse named Bizcocho in Mexico, where he also names an eagle Caligula because he mishears the Spanish phrase el Ã¡guila. He gets caught in a revolving door by a store detective after he starts stealing books, and he gets arrested on the suspicion of being part of a gang of car thieves after falling in with Joe Gorman. Mrs. Renling tries to adopt this character into her family, without success. He works for and idolizes the Commissioner's son, a cripple named Einhorn. His love interests include Sophie Geratis and Thea Fenchel, but not Mimi Villars. For 10 points, name this "American, Chicago born" whose adventures are described in a Saul Bellow novel.
Augie March [accept either name]
7

135353-)
This play ends with the chilling stage direction "Darkness takes them all." Failed relationships in this play are attributed to the fact that we are all "separate people" by some of the major characters.  The description of this play's setting notes that "people appear and disappear instantaneously Â… but it is not necessary that they walk off the stage." This is because the setting, which contains a single chair underneath the tower of a concentration camp, is inside the mind of the main character, who often addresses the Listener. In this play, Lou commits suicide after Mickey testifies against him. The protagonist constantly argues with his first wife, Louise, and is conflicted about marrying his new love Holga, especially given the failure of his marriage to Maggie. For 10 points, name this play based on the playwright's marriage to Marilyn Monroe, in which Quentin stands in for Arthur Miller.
After the Fall
7

135356-)
The protagonist of this novel goes to a party which is also attended by someone who he refers to as the "queer-looking duck." At the end of one chapter, the protagonist of this novel repeatedly exclaims "Riffraff!" in anger. One character remarks that gossip is harmless until someone tries to deny it after the protagonist tries to clear his mother's name by talking to Mrs. Johnson. Automobiles are derogatorily referred to as "sewing machines" in this novel, and they are manufactured by the father of a woman who is "almost engaged" to the protagonist, Lucy. In this novel, Isabel's relationship with that car manufacturer, Eugene Morgan, is ruined by her son, the spoiled George Minafer, whose aristocratic status is eclipsed by the rise of new-money families. For 10 points, name this novel about the decline of the title family by Booth Tarkington.
The Magnificent Ambersons
7

135360-)
This author wrote that "to live is to be uncertain" and "certainty comes at the end" in the poem "You Are There." Her non-fiction works include a biography of Henry Miller called The Devil at Large and a book about witches illustrated by Joseph A. Smith. The protagonist of her most popular novel is also the protagonist of two follow-up novels, Parachutes &amp; Kisses and How to Save Your Own Life. Her memoir, subtitled "Writing for My Life," describes her determination not to join Plath, Woolf, and other female writers who chased death, and is called Seducing the Demon. Her most popular novel is about Isadora Wing's affair with a psychoanalyst in Vienna, and introduced the term "zipless fuck." For 10 points, name this author of Fear of Flying.
Erica Jong
7

135371-)
The title of one of this author's novels plays on the title of a Peter Viertel novel on a similar subject; that novel fictionalizes his trip to Ireland to collaborate with John Huston on a Moby-Dick screenplay. He wrote a hard-boiled mystery novel about an unnamed writer who investigates a series of murders in Venice, California along with the detective Elmo Crumley. This author of Green Shadows, White Whale and Death Is a Lonely Business wrote about William Halloway and Jim Nightshade, who get involved with a "Pandemonium Shadow Show" run by Mr. Dark, who is covered in tattoos, much like the title character of one of this author's short story collections. He also wrote a nostalgic novel narrating Douglas Spaulding's summer. For 10 points, name this author of Something Wicked This Way Comes, The Illustrated Man and Dandelion Wine.
Ray Bradbury
7

135374-)
This character inspired a 2001 book about writers who give up writing by Enrique Vila-Matas, and he is also the subject of an essay about his "formula" by Gilles Deleuze, which compares him to the main character of The Man Without Qualities. The narrator of the work in which he appears praises his "great stillness" and "unalterableness of demeanor under all circumstances," and compares him to a man named Samuel Adams who was murdered by John C. Colt. This character ultimately dies of starvation after being imprisoned at the Tombs, causing the narrator to exclaim "Ah, humanity!" His co-workers include two people of opposite temperaments nicknamed Turkey and Nippers, and his refusal to leave his office is just one example of the many things he "would prefer not to" do. For 10 points, name this scrivener from a Melville short story.
Bartleby, the Scrivener
7

135377-)
A long poem by this poet opens with Lee falling of a sea-cliff and being nursed back to health by his sister. One of his poems depicts people gathering shellfish at ebb-tide, and when they leave the speaker wonders why a single bird is more dear to him than many people. That poem expresses an idea which he called "the rejection of human solipsism" in the preface to one of his collections, and it is also expressed in a poem in which he says "I'd rather, except the penalties, kill a man than" one of the title creatures. His narrative poems include one dealing with incest in the Cauldwell family as well as an adaptation of the Oresteia called "The Tower Beyond Tragedy." This author of The Double Axe and "Hurt Hawks" is also known for works like The Women at Point Sur and "Tamar." For 10 points, name this "inhumanist" poet of "Roan Stallion" from California.
Robinson Jeffers
7

135384-)
This author wrote about Mustache Sal, a woman who has sex with pretty much everyone, in a novel which also includes a character with the delightful name Field Marshal Theda Doompussy Blackwell. That novel is a western about Drag Gibson, Chief Showcase, and the Loop Garoo Kid. He co-founded the Before Columbus Movement, and wrote a novel about the murder of Ed Yellings. This author of Yellow Back Radio Broke-Down and The Last Days of Louisiana Red created a philosophy known as Neo-HooDooism, demonstrated in novels like Flight to Canada, as well as a novel in which much of the plot is driven by the search for an ancient Egyptian book, which is possessed at various points by Abdul Sufi Hamid and Hinckle Von Vampton, and which is sought by both the Wallflower Order and the Jes Grew movement. For 10 points, name this author of Mumbo Jumbo.
Ishmael Reed
7

135388-)
This novel describes a children's game called "I Declare War," in which the participants represent countries and a bouncing ball represents missiles. The protagonist of this novel has a nightmare in which the picture of George Washington on a stamp is replaced by a picture of Hitler. The protagonist's downstairs neighbor commits suicide by hanging himself in a closet, leaving his son, Seldon Wishnow, without a father. The narrator's aunt Evelyn dances with Joachim von Ribbentrop at the White House in this novel, whose other historical characters include Walter Winchell, who is assassinated after announcing that he is running for president. The narrator's cousin Alvin loses a leg fighting for the Canadian army in World War II, which the United States doesn't enter until 1942. For 10 points, name this novel in which Charles Lindbergh becomes President of the United States, by Philip Roth.
The Plot Against America
7

135391-)
This poem asks, "Was he to bray this in profoundest brass / Arointing his dreams with fugal requiems?" One character in this poem "lettered herself demurely as became a pearly poetess," and that character has three sisters. The speaker of this poem asks whether the main character could "stem verboseness in the sea." The main character of this poem is described as a "Socrates of snails, musician of pears, principium and lex." Two sections of this poem are introduced by the word nota, one instance of which is followed by the statement that "man is the intelligence of his soil." This poem includes sections like "Approaching Carolina" and "Concerning the Thunderstorms of Yucatan." The different sounds made by the title letter of this poem are exemplified in the line "Exchequering from piebald fiscs unkeyed." For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poem about a voyage undertaken by Crispin.
"The Comedian as the Letter C"
7

135395-)
This author wrote a story in which Nancy looks at the "white moon Â… covered with scars" during a night of insomnia while her husband sleeps. One of his stories ends with the sentence "I held that half of him," referring to the steelhead fish which the narrator catches with the help of a neighborhood boy and then cuts in half. He also wrote a story in which Jack and Fran visit a couple who have an incredibly ugly baby and a pet peacock. In another of his stories, the narrator draws the title structure while a blind man named Robert holds his hand. Mel says "It seems to me we're just beginners at love" in a short story by this man structured after The Symposium. That story is from a collection edited by Gordon Lish, the manuscript version of which is called Beginners. For 10 points, name this writer of short stories such as "What We Talk About When We Talk About Love."
Raymond Carver
7

135397-)
The title character of this novel is fascinated by a mysterious woman who he sees in the window of a house, and his words of wisdom include "Put all your eggs in one basket, and WATCH THAT BASKET" and "Few things are harder to put up with than the annoyance of a good example." It opens with a "whisper to the reader" in which the author assures the reader that the scenes in court are accurate, because they were edited by a barrister. The title character of this novel gets his nickname after he says "I wish I owned half that dog, because I would kill my half." Minor characters in this novel include Rowena and Pembroke Howard, and the theft of an ornate Indian knife leads to another character's downfall. The use of fingerprints in court is presaged in this novel's conclusion, in which the title character reveals that Roxana switched the infants Chambers and Tom, and acquits the Capello twins of the murder of Judge Driscoll. For 10 points, name this novel by Mark Twain.
Pudd'nhead Wilson
7

135404-)
The title character of this poem stops singing when "a vague unrest and a nameless longing" fills her breast. One character in this poem dreams of the "low of cattle and song of birds, and health and quiet and loving birds." The other major character in this poem dreams of being dressed up "in silks so fine," saying that she would "feed the hungry and clothe the poor." The title character of this poem gives a cup of water to the other major character in this poem, who responds "a sweeter draught from a fairer hand was never quaffed" before riding away "like one who for delay seeks a vain excuse." This poem is about a judge and a woman who are attracted to each other but pass by without saying anything, concluding that "of all sad words of tongue or pen, the saddest are these: 'It might have been!'" For 10 points, name this poem by John Greenleaf Whittier.
"Maud Muller"
7

135406-)
In one novel set in this city, an Eastern European writer named Brik investigates the shooting of the title Jewish immigrant by this city's police chief. That novel is Aleksandar Hemon's The Lazarus Project. One essay declares that loving this city is "like loving a woman with a broken nose," because "you may well find lovelier lovelies, but never a lovely so real." A novel named after the first line of DeLillo's Americana is about an advertising agency in this city; that novel is Then We Came to the End by Joshua Ferris. This subject of a Nelson Algren essay about a "city on the make" is the setting of "Barbie-Q," one of the vignettes which make up a novel in which Esperanza Cordero lives in the title building in this city, The House on Mango Street. For 10 points, name this setting of A Street in Bronzeville, A Raisin in the Sun, and The Jungle, a city described as the "Hog Butcher for the World" in a poem by Carl Sandburg.
Chicago
7

135408-)
Twice during this novel, the narrator repeats the phrase "I am" three times in a row. The protagonist of this novel considers the significance of the fact that a word in Finnegans Wake is exactly 100 letters long, and reads about the suicide attempt of George Pollucci. The protagonist drinks the water from a finger bowl at the house of a famous novelist, and she tricks Mr. Manzi into letting her not take chemistry. A math professor named Irwin deflowers the protagonist of this novel, causing her to bleed profusely. Other characters in this work include the editor Jay Cee, the U.N. interpreter Constantin and the protagonist's ex-boyfriend Buddy Willard. Published under the pseudonym Victoria Lucas, it opens during "the summer they electrocuted the Rosenbergs." For 10 points, name this novel about Esther Greenwood by Sylvia Plath.
The Bell Jar
7

135416-)
The influence of Whitman on the poet of this collection can be seen in the mention of the "smoking souvenir, bleeding eidolon" in one poem. The speaker of another poem in this collection asks himself, "Is the silence strong enough to carry back the music to its source and back to you again as though to her?" The speaker of another poem says "O, I have known metallic paradises" and muses that "the mind has shown itself at times too much the baked and labeled dough." Containing "Legend" and "My Grandmother's Love Letters," it also describes "unfettered leewardings" and "the wrapt inflections of our love" in one of a sequence of six erotic poems called "Voyages." For 10 points, name this work including the poems "Chaplinesque" and  "For the Marriage of Faustus and Helen," the first poetry collection by Hart Crane.
White Buildings
7

135418-)
At the end of this novel, the narrator says "Blah" after kneeling and giving thanks to a shack where he had recently stayed. One character in this novel translates Han Shan's poem "Cold Mountain." The narrator of this novel has a vision of a bushy-eyebrowed Dipankara, which evokes the meaningless word "colyalcolor." Minor characters in this novel include the carpenter Sean Monahan and Rheinhold Cacoethes. The narrator of this novel has the realization that you can't fall off a mountain while climbing Matterhorn Peak in California. Alvah Goldbook reads the poem "Wail" in this novel, a fictionalization of Ginsberg's reading of "Howl" at the Six Gallery. This novel is narrated by Ray Smith, who is fascinated by the philosophy of Japhy Ryder. For 10 points, name this novel by Jack Kerouac about how he was influenced by Gary Snyder's Buddhism.
The Dharma Bums
7

135426-)
One member of this movement wrote a six-part poem featuring a talking horse named Claude LÃ©vi-Strauss. That poem, which is divided into books such as The Cycle and Bean News, is Gunslinger by Ed Dorn. Several poets associated with this movement did not identify themselves with it, despite being published in its namesake "review" and being included in Donald Allen's anthology The New American Poetry. Those poets include Robert Duncan and Denise Levertov. An alternate name for this movement derives from the title of a manifesto calling for "open verse" based on the rhythms of breathing. That manifesto, Projective Verse, was written by a poet who wrote poems like "The Kingfishers" and "In Cold Hell, in Thicket" as well as The Maximus Poems, Charles Olson. For 10 points, name this school of poetry named after a short-lived liberal arts college in North Carolina
Black Mountain poets [accept projectivist poets before Projective Verse]
7

135428-)
The owner of this play's main location calls Tchaikovsky a dope, and a woman tries to insult him by calling him a dentist. Another character in this play dials the wrong number and accidentally declares his love to Lorene instead of the nurse who he is actually in love with. The main character of this play tries to guess the name of a woman whose initials, M.L., are embroidered on her scarf. Other characters include Tom, who is sent out to buy toys and a revolver, among other things, and who is in love with a woman who claims to have been a burlesque dancer named Kitty Duval. This play takes place in a dive bar frequented by an old man who looks like Kit Carson, a longshoreman named McCarthy, and the main character, Joe, who tries to help others using his money. For 10 points, name this play set in Nick's Pacific Street Saloon by William Saroyan.
The Time of Your Life
7

135431-)
The title of a short story by this author refers to the inanimate objects which one character learns to love as the first step in his "science of love." A play by this author, which was a critical and popular failure, is about a woman who has an affair with an architect while her husband is away at a sanitarium. She never finished her autobiography Illumination and Night Glare. In one of her novels, Leonora has an affair with Major Langdon and is married to a homosexual man who is attracted to Private Williams, who is in turn attracted to Leonora. This author of "A Tree. A Rock. A Cloud" wrote about the maid Berenice Sadie Brown in one of her novels, which is about the tomboyish Frankie Addams and her desire to accompany her brother on his honeymoon. Another tomboyish character created by this author is Mick Kelly, who, like Jake Blount and Biff Brannon, is friends with the deaf man John Singer. For 10 points, name this author of The Member of the Wedding and The Heart Is a Lonely Hunter.
Carson McCullers
7

135433-)
One character in this novel lies on the ground and remembers the first time he slept with a woman, and puts his hand on the ground and feels the blood of his father, who was gored by a bull in that spot. Another character says that everybody says words differently, but she met a woman from Massachusetts who said them "differentest of all." The protagonist of this novel is told to act "bull-simple" when the police talk to him.  A major character in this novel is killed after protesting "You don't know what you're doing!" and the protagonist kills his attacker, forcing his family to move to a cotton farm. The central family of this novel is represented by a turtle who is flipped over by a truck in one chapter. It ends with an allusion to the story of Pero and Cimon, when a starving old man is breastfed by Rose of Sharon. For 10 points, name this novel about the Joads' migration from Oklahoma to California.
The Grapes of Wrath
7

135435-)
In one poem, this author wrote "My soul discerns no beauty in" the sight of the swallow's flight "because my dearest love is gone away." This author wrote a short story consisting entirely of the thoughts of a woman waiting for a man to call her, as well as a story in which a woman repeatedly insists that she does not care that Walter Williams is black. One poem by this author lists the downsides of a number of suicide methods, including "Drugs cause cramp" and "Gas smells awful," concluding "You might as well live." One of this author's poems consists of three stanzas extolling the virtues of her lover, each stanza ending with a line like "And I wish I'd never met him" or "And I wish somebody'd shoot him." Her poem "News Item" runs, in its entirety, "Men seldom make passes at girls who wear glasses." For 10 points, name this member of the Algonquin Round Table noted for her wit.
Dorothy Parker
7

135439-)
This character notes that "wolves cull themselves," but that man is even "more predacious yet." In a conversation with Brown and Irving, this character declares war to be "the truest form of divination" and "the ultimate game" before concluding that "war is god." At one point, he buys a pair of puppies and almost immediately throws them off a bridge. He also explains that "whatever in creation exists without my knowledge exists without my consent" after he is asked by Toadvine why he collects and sketches biological specimens. He shoots the former priest Tobin, and it is possible that he also shoots the protagonist in Fort Griffin at the end of the novel. This character is extremely tall, pale and completely hairless, and his acts include violating and killing many children as part of Glanton's gang of criminals. For 10 points, name this supremely violent character from Blood Meridian. 
Judge Holden [accept the Judge]
7

135445-)
This man wrote "Most of the world today is governed by Caesars" in his essay "Robert Graves and the Twelve Caesars." In one of his novels, humanity is destroyed when aliens take over a computer used by Rosemary Klein Kantor to write the romance novel Rogue Duke, which is inhabited by characters of the title TV series after they die. This author of Duluth also wrote about the five Perfect Masters, who are the only humans to survive the apocalypse engineered by a man who calls himself Kalki. This author of seven historical novels making up the series Narratives of Empire wrote a novel which ends with Jim Willard raping Bob Ford, whom he has spent his life pursuing. This author of The City and the Pillar also wrote about a sexually reassigned character who rapes Rusty Godowsky with a strap-on dildo. For 10 points, name this author of Myra Breckinridge, who has kissed more boys than Lisa Simpson ever will.
Gore Vidal
7

135446-)
After having sex with one character, this novel's protagonist "began to discover what possession was." This novel's prologue describes a traveler who witnesses a woman dancing to harmonica music with people laughing around her, but doesn't realize that they are laughing to deal with their pain. At a pivotal point in this novel, an under-construction tunnel collapses with many townspeople inside it. The title character of this novel is suspected of pushing a boy named Teapot, and causing Mr. Finley to die by choking on a chicken bone. The protagonist's mother dies when her dress catches on fire, and another character, Plum, is burned alive with kerosene by the protagonist's grandmother. One character in this novel invents a holiday called National Suicide Day, on which he walks around with a noose. The title character of this novel, who lives in the Bottom, accidentally drowns Chicken Little in a river while her best friend Nel Wright watches. For 10 points, name this Toni Morrison novel.
Sula
7

135455-)
This work quotes Marx's exhortation "Workers of the world, unite" but makes sure to point out that it is being used apolitically. Shortly thereafter is a list of persons and places, which lists Louis-Ferdinand CÃ©line, Ring Lardner, and others as "unpaid agitators" and the creators of this work as "spy" and "counter-spy." It includes an intermission called "Conversation in the Lobby" and its second book contains three sections called "On the Porch," as well as a five-part section outlining "Money," "Shelter," "Clothing," "Education," and "Work." Much of it consists of  musings on the impossibility of the author's journalistic task, although it is ostensibly a record of the Woods, the Ricketts, and the Gudgers, three families of tenant farmers. For 10 points, name this chronicle of Alabama sharecroppers with photographs by Walker Evans and text by James Agee.
Let Us Now Praise Famous Men
7

135458-)
One character in this story remarks that it doesn't matter how fat you are as long as you have a good disposition. After one character indirectly chastises her daughter for being ungrateful, the protagonist of this story shows her gratitude by shouting "Oh thank you, Jesus, Jesus, thank you!" The protagonist is called the "sweetest white lady I know" by one of her workers, but fails to be comforted, after another character calls her a warthog from Hell. A Wellesley student named Mary Grace throws a book called Human Development at the protagonist of this story, who constantly imagines Jesus giving her the choice to be born as white trash or a black person. At the end of this story, the protagonist sees a vision of souls entering heaven on a bridge. For 10 points, name this Flannery O'Connor short story named for the epiphany experienced by Mrs. Turpin.
"Revelation"
7

135460-)
This work's narrator describes completing the crossword clue "Sometimes you feel like ___" with "a motherless child" even though the correct answer is "a nut." As a student, the narrator of this work thought that the line from "Rose Aylmer" about "a night of memories and sighs" contained a life lesson. The narrator also describes experiencing the "vortex effect" and ponders "the question of self-pity." This work frequently quotes a line spoken by Gawain in The Song of Roland: "I tell you that I shall not live two days."  The narrator refuses to throw away her late husband's shoes because she thinks he will need them when he returns. The narrator of this work repeatedly says "You sit down to dinner and life as you know it ends," referring to her husband John Gregory Dunne's sudden death from cardiac arrest, which happens while her daughter Quintana is in an induced coma. For 10 points, name this memoir of mourning by Joan Didion.
The Year of Magical Thinking
7

135467-)
One of this author's characters is described by Hugh Wentworth as a "blond beauty out of the fairy-tale" at a Negro Welfare League dance. Another of her characters turns down a marriage proposal from a Danish artist but ends up marrying Reverend Green. That character quits teaching at Naxos in part because she is discouraged from expressing her individuality by wearing colorful clothing. In addition to writing a novel about Helga Crane, she wrote a novel whose narrator is disturbed by the bigotry of John Bellew, who declares that he would never marry a black woman, even though he has unknowingly done just that. That novel ends by noting that the jury returned a verdict of death by misadventure, leaving the reader to decide whether or not Irene Redfield pushed Clare Kendry. For 10 points, name this Harlem Renaissance novelist of Quicksand and Passing.
Nella Larsen
7

135471-)
16. She wrote a poem in which the place name "Glens Falls" is split between two lines, with only the final "s" in the second line. Another poem from the same collection describes the corpse of a child which is "all white, like a doll that hadn't been painted yet." She also wrote a poem which contains the exclamation "Be careful with that match!" and says that "some comic books provide the only note of color" in the title location. This author of "First Death in Nova Scotia" wrote a poem whose speaker reads National Geographic while waiting for Aunt Consuelo to finish her dentist appointment. The speaker of another of her poems catches a "tremendous fish" but ultimately lets him go. This author of "In the Waiting Room" and "The Fish" is perhaps best known for a poem which instructs the reader to "lose something every day" and "practice losing farther, losing faster." For 10 points, name this poet of "Filling Station" and "One Art."
Elizabeth Bishop
7

135474-)
In this novel, giant fleas known as chong pir are encountered by the crew of the Saksaul as they travel underneath the sand. Dahlia's mother leaves her husband and runs off with the magician Zombini in this novel, which also sees one group opposed by the Trespassers while visiting a time travel conference at Candlebrow University. One character in this novel, who may be a legendary dynamiter named the Kieselguhr Kid, is assassinated by Deuce and Sloat. The idea of bilocation recurs in this novel, often in the form of a mineral known as Iceland spar. Dramatizing events such as Tesla's experiments, labor disputes in Colorado, and the Tunguska Event, this novel includes characters like Yashmeen Halfcourt, Lew Basnight, and Scarsdale Vibe. For 10 points, name this novel which features the skyship Inconvenience and its crew, the Chums of Chance, Thomas Pynchon's longest novel.
Against the Day
7

135476-)
The protagonist of this man's major work says "Most white people I know are quite proud of having made Negroes into Bigger Thomases" during a discussion of Native Son and Lillian Smith's Strange Fruit with Tom Leighton. One of his characters is killed by the rabble-rouser Tomsson Black. This author of the autobiographical works The Quality of Hurt and My Life of Absurdity also wrote a novel in which a large sum of money which was intended for Deke O'Hara is stolen and hidden in a bale of cotton. That novel centers on two characters who also appear in the novels Plan B and The Real Cool Killers. He is most famous for a novel in which Madge Perkins accuses Bob Jones of rape, although his most enduring characters may be the Harlem detectives, Coffin Ed Johnson and Gravedigger Jones. For 10 points, name this author of If He Hollers Let Him Go.
Chester Himes
7

135483-)
One of this playwright's works is a series of four linked plays, including "Greeks," "Open House," and "Snails," each of which is introduced by photographs projected behind the stage. She once wrote a short play every day for a year, resulting in 365 Days/365 Plays. One of her plays includes "The Looking Song" and is about a woman with five sons named Baby, Beauty, Bully, Trouble, and Jabber; that play and a play published a year later are both based on The Scarlet Letter. This author of Imperceptible Mutabilities in the Third Kingdom and In the Blood wrote a play about a man who looks like Abraham Lincoln and allows people to pay him to act as John Wilkes Booth and reenact his assassination, which is reminiscent of the names of the two brothers, Lincoln and Booth, in her most famous play. For 10 points, name this playwright of The America Play and Topdog/Underdog.
Suzan-Lori Parks
7

135485-)
Probably the strangest book by this author contains diagrams like "The Decayed Orbit of the Lay Freudian" and lots of multiple-choice quizzes, and is a parody of self-help books which includes a semiotic analysis of the self. This author answers "Bad" when asked "What kind of Catholic are you?" in an interview with himself called "Questions They Never Asked Me," which is collected in a volume called Conversations with this author. In one of his novels, a descendant of Sir Thomas More invents a device called the ontological lapsometer. He wrote about the nervous tendencies of Will Barrett in a novel whose sequel is called The Second Coming. This author of Love in the Ruins and The Last Gentleman is best known for a novel about the existentialist search of a New Orleans stockbroker named Binx Bolling. For 10 points, name this Southern author of The Moviegoer.
Walker Percy
7

135487-)
Several characters in this novel joke about cutting a waiter open with a musical saw. The protagonist of this novel receives a telegram from Holmes with the news of his father's death shortly after he finds out that another character was beaten to death in a speakeasy. In this novel, Baby rescues the protagonist from an Italian jail after he punches a member of the Carabinieri. This novel features a ridiculous duel fought by Tommy and McKisco, which takes place in France, where the main characters are entertaining various people, including Abe North. A black man named Jules Peterson is murdered in this novel, nearly endangering the career of the star of Daddy's Girl, Rosemary Hoyt. The protagonist is a psychoanalyst who is married to a schizophrenic named Nicole Warren, who was one of his patients. For 10 points, name this novel about Dick Diver by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Tender Is the Night
7

135493-)
At her graduation, one character in this play wins an encyclopedia called The Digest of Knowledge, and that character is infatuated with a boy who got an earring for crossing the equator. The protagonist of this play insistently asks "How high is this high school?" while berating a teacher named Miss Yorke. A minor character in this play is a rheumatic old woman who is thought to be a witch. A stage direction in this play specifies that a condom should fall from a pocket, which caused the director of one production to be arrested.  De Leo berates this play's protagonist for obsessively holding onto her husband's ashes. The main character of this play tells Assunta that she realized that she was pregnant when she felt a burning pain on her chest. For 10 points, name this play in which Alvaro Mangiacavallo has the same mark on his chest as Serafina's late husband, a work of Tennessee Williams.
The Rose Tattoo
7

135503-)
One character in this story says "ain't no Christians here tonight Â… just one hundred percent Americans" when another character pleads for his throat to be cut so he doesn't have to suffer a prolonged death. After the central event of this story, the wind blows for three days straight, burning down a house. The location of the  central event of this story is overlooked by a statue of a Confederate general leaning on his sword. In this story, a plane crash knocks down some electrical wires, killing a woman, which briefly distracts the attention of a crowd. The narrator of this story is called a "gutless wonder" because he is too sick to go out after witnessing the central event, which is led by Jed Wilson. The narrator of this story is a boy from Cincinnati whose Uncle Ed brings him to the title event. For 10 points, name this work whose narrator witnesses a lynching, a short story by Ralph Ellison.
"A Party Down at the Square"
7

135510-)
The protagonist of this novel says "A joke that has to be diagrammed is like trying to excuse an egg" after she makes a failed joke about the metaphor of the blindfold and the firing squad. The three sections of this novel are subtitled "A Name for the City," "Beginning Was the Word," and "Not Even Yet Quite Relinquish." One character in this novel is a nanny named Nancy Mannigoe, who has been sentenced to death for killing the six-month-old daughter of the protagonist. That protagonist is married to Gowan Stevens. This novel is written as a play, interrupted by prose sections about the history of Yoknapatawpha County. This novel, which contains the famous line "The past is never dead. It's not even past," is the sequel to a novel in which Popeye rapes this novel's protagonist with a corncob. For 10 points, name this William Faulkner novel about Temple Drake, a sequel to Sanctuary.
Requiem for a Nun
7

135511-)
This man's wife wrote a novel about three Brown alumni living in New York named Danielle Minkoff, Marina Thwaite and Julius Clarke. This husband of the author of The Emperor's Children, Claire Messud, wrote an autobiographical novel called The Book Against God. He called one of his critical works a sustained argument with Barthes and Viktor Shlovsky, even though he also called those two people his "two favorite twentieth-century critics of the novel." That work connects Make Way for Ducklings and What Maisie Knew on the basis that they both allow us to inhabit juvenile confusion through the use of the free indirect style, which he discusses at length. This admirer of Saul Bellow, Chekhov and Flaubert is often criticized for his old-fashioned tastes. In an essay called "Human, All Too Inhuman" on Zadie Smith's White Teeth, he criticized the "pursuit of vitality at all costs" in the "big, ambitious" novels of Pynchon, Wallace, and others, which he calls hysterical realism. For 10 points, name this literary critic who wrote How Fiction Works.
James Wood
7

135513-)
Though mostly narrated in the third person, this novel briefly slips into the second person, saying "You wait in minutes of hopes and days of hopelessness." The protagonist of this novel says, "If I have any philosophy, it is that life could be better than it is," although he is obsessed with Spinoza and one of his few possessions is a copy of Selections from Spinoza. The protagonist's father is killed when a man decides to kill the first three Jews that he sees. In Kiev, the title character of this novel helps a drunk man who subsequently offers him a job at a brickyard, which he accepts even though the man is a member of the Black Hundreds. Based on the trial of Menahem Mendel Beilis, it takes place in Tsarist Russia, where Yakov Bok is accused of ritually murdering a boy whose body is found in a cave. For 10 points, name this Bernard Malamud novel about the arrest of a Jewish handyman.
The Fixer
7

135516-)
19. This short story is the subject of Amy Strong's paper "Screaming Through Silence." A section cut from the published version of this story, which sees the protagonist think about death while alone in a forest, was later published as "Three Shots." Near the end of this story, the water is described as being "warm in the sharp chill of the morning." When the protagonist of this story asks if dying is hard, the answer he gets is "No, I think it's pretty easyÂ… it all depends." This story ends with the protagonist feeling "quite sure that he would never die," even though he has just witnessed a man slit his own throat while his wife is screaming because she is undergoing an operation without anaesthetic. For 10 points, name this Hemingway story in which Nick Adams' father performs an emergency caesarean section in the title location.
"Indian Camp"
7

135518-)
This writer collected four sketches of Southern life in Mingo, and Other Sketches in Black and White. He called Uncle Tom's Cabin a "wonderful defense of slavery." This author wrote about a freed slave who is forbidden by Calderwood from seeing his wife Lucinda in the short story "Free Joe and the Rest of the World." He was accused by Alice Walker of stealing part of her heritage in an essay whose title indicates that his most iconic creation is "no friend of [hers]." He worked as a journalist for the Atlanta Constitution, where he popularized the Anansi-like story of a doll made out of tar which entraps one character when he punches and kicks it out of anger. That story is one of the African-American folktales collected by this writer, many of which feature Br'er Rabbit. For 10 points, name this author most famous for writing the Uncle Remus stories.
Joel Chandler Harris
7

135521-)
When the main female character in this play says that she used to be an air stewardess, another woman wishes that she could fly too and her husband responds: "What for? Who do you know up there? Eagles?". The protagonist of this play self-educated himself by reading the whole Encyclopedia Britannica that belongs to a Jewish neighbor, who gloomily quotes Schopenhauer throughout the first act. This play's protagonist kisses the main female character after they whistle a duet while sitting on a park (*) bench. Two characters in this play are upset that the protagonist drives a Deusenberg car, which crashes, killing two characters, at the end of this play. The gangster Eddie Fuseli buys a stake in this play's protagonist, who falls in love with Lorna Moon, the girlfriend of his manager, Tom Moody. For 10 points, name this play about the violinist turned boxer Joe Bonaparte, by Clifford Odets.
Golden Boy
9

135525-)
In one story by this author, an elderly mugging victim runs into a blight-stricken park, where the bare tree branches give him a perfect view of the bombers overhead. One of this author's characters takes over an operation from Dr. Renshaw when coreopsis sets in. In a children's book by this author, Andrea and Andreus rebel against Black and Littlejack after they arrive on an island aboard the Aeiu and impose a lipogrammatic regime by shortening words and banning objects containing a hated (*) letter. Another story by him ends with a man getting his wife committed in his place by telling the asylum workers she lied about him reporting a unicorn in the garden. After being mocked on a shopping trip for saying "puppy biscuit," one of his characters waits for his wife at the hairdresser by imagining he is a soldier. For 10 points, name this comic author of Fables for Our Time, The Wonderful O and "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty."
James Grover Thurber
9

135530-)
In one essay, this author claimed that the South is unique within America for defending a culture built on European principles. This author wrote a poem in which a girl refuses to be "instructed in how deep / Was the forgetful kingdom of death" after her pet hen is fatally stung by a bee. In a poem by him, a woman asks: "But what grey man among the vines is this / Whose words are dry and faint as in a dream?" to a man who repeatedly says "I am a gentleman in a dustcoat trying". His essay (*) "Reconstructed But Unregenerate" is the first in a volume co-written with fellow Vanderbilt students and faculty such as Allen Tate and Robert Penn Warren, I'll Take My Stand. This author of "Janet Waking" and "Piazza Piece" wrote a poem in which lazy geese cry "Alas" at a girl whose "brown study / Astonishes us all". For 10 points, name this first editor of the Kenyon Review, the poet of "Bells for John Whiteside's Daughter".
John Crowe Ransom
9

135535-)
In her review of this author's most recent novel, Francine Prose questions whether that novel really embodies the good rather than the bad qualities of the word "Dickensian". This author wrote a novel in which one character sings "The Farmer in the Dell" to taunt other characters about a man they killed in the woods while attempting to perform a bacchanalia. This author created a protagonist whose father dates a cocaine-snorting casino worker but dies in a car crash outside of Las Vegas while trying to flee his gambling debts. She wrote a novel in which a group of (*) Julian Morrow's hand-picked Classics students at Hampden College kill their classmate, Bunny Corcoran. In the aftermath of a terrorist bombing at the Metropolitan Museum, Theo Decker steals the title painting by Carel Fabritius, in her most recent novel. For 10 points, name this author of The Secret History and the winner of the 2014 Pulitzer Prize, The Goldfinch.
Donna Tartt
9

135536-)
Failure at this activity causes such shame for a half-Scottish, half-Greek character that he goes to jail for trying to kill a "golden boy" in Melbourne. A professor proves he wasn't bluffing about "being silly" by agreeing to do this with a student during a drunken "Platonic dialogue" at the Starboard Side gay bar. A free verse poem by Countee Cullen describes this action as "ever a ceaseless vigil keeping / Over the treasures beneath." This central activity of a 2013 Christos Tsiolkas novel excites a (*) gatecrashing character enough to smack the rear of a bronze Aphrodite statue in a story that ends with him crying over the autumnal constellation Andromeda. In A Single Man, Kenny and George bond at night over this title activity of a story in which the "country-crossing" ex-lover of Shirley Adams returns to a sold house. For 10 points, name this activity that carries Neddy Merrill through the lawn-linking "Lucinda River" in a John Cheever story.
swimming [accept any related answers about various ways of traversing water]
9

135540-)
This poem's pronouns are "as tight and regional as a Grandma Moses painting," according to Derek Walcott, who deemed it less "appropriate" than "a Navajo hymn." Helen Vendler claimed that this poem is about "a transfer of loyalty" in her attack on James Fenton's "modern imperialist" analysis. This poem describes a place "still unstoried, artless, unenhanced / Such as she was, such as she would become." On one occasion, this poem's author planned to recite (*) another poem presaging "the glory of a next Augustan age," but he couldn't read the text because of the glaring sunlight on the snow, so he recited this poem instead. This poem claims that until we "forthwith found salvation in surrender," "Something we were withholding made us weak," "Possessing what we still were unpossessed by." For 10 points, name this poem that asserts, "The land was ours before we were the land's," read at JFK's inauguration by Robert Frost.
"The Gift Outright"
9

135548-)
In this novel, a dream about a scary wind-up penguin terrifies a character who appears in another's dreams laid out on a coolingboard and like a "[pilgrim] in a fable" entering a cave where a sightless creature crouches over a lake. This novel ends with the image of "maps and mazes" on the backs of brook trout in mountain streams. Two characters in this novel offer a prayer to "the people" after buttering biscuits they find in a bunker full of peaches and pears. In this novel, glimpsing a (*) dog and a little boy haunts a character who believes that nothing bad will happen to him because he is "carrying the fire." While standing next to a corpse, that character refuses to give up a pistol with two bullets to a hooded man who claims to be one of the "good guys" rather than a cannibal. For 10 points, name this chronicle of a father's journey with his son across a post-apocalyptic waste, a work by Cormac McCarthy.
The Road
9

135551-)
This author created a character who remains silent when asked by his father to choose between aesthetic blindness and moral blindness. That character created by this author is haunted by dreams of his "mythic ancestor" who killed and burned serfs in his drunken rages. This author created a character who impresses another man's father by knowing that the number for "prozdor" or "vestibule" is 503 and not 513. The title character of one of his novels returns to Europe after the (*) Ladover community rejects his Brooklyn Crucifixion. The protagonist befriends the boy whose line drive in a softball game injured his eye, and whose father speaks to him only when discussing religion in this author's most famous novel, which describes the relationship between Reuven Malter and the Hasidic Danny Saunders. For 10 points, name this American-Jewish author of My Name is Asher Lev and The Chosen.
Chaim Potok
9

135553-)
A poem written in response to this event asks "What are they dragging up and out on their long leashes of sound / That dissolve in the mid-air silence?". A poem about this event asks: "ThiefÂ—how did you crawl into" the thing that the speaker "wanted so badly and for so long". Recollections of the lead-up to this event form the prologue of Al Alvarez's The Savage God. Before this event, its author described a woman who performed an equivalent action as "perfected" and wearing "the smile of accomplishment". After a predecessor to this action, people had to "pick the (*) worms off [...] like sticky pearls". Before this action, its executant taped a note to a baby carriage that said to call Dr. Horder. A poem prefiguring this laments: "This is Number Three / What a trash / To annihilate each decade", and concludes "I eat men like air". For 10 points, name this action that preceded the posthumous publication of the collection Ariel.
Sylvia Plath's suicide [accept obvious equivalents for suicide, even just "death"]
9

135558-)
One character with this first name blocks an attempt to "make a scene" over "filthy" breakfast food by threatening to leave a fellow subject of three on the verge profiles, whom she often implores to "go into the shade." Memories of an object like a "penny" or "lemon" from her time in Ohio inspire a character with this name to write a poem about an ephemeral flower, leading her peers to exclude her from playing tag in a grey jungle. A frail girl who is locked in a closet during the only break in seven years of rain on (*) Venus shares this name with a "Memsahib" who repeatedly sobs, "Stop it" in response to the reassurances of a perpetually red-faced man she earlier kisses in camp. The protagonist of Ray Bradbury's "All Summer in a Day" shares this name with a woman who resents her husband's "lion business," presaging her accidental shot during a motor-car buffalo hunt with Robert Wilson. For 10 points, name the wife and killer of Francis Macomber.
Margot [accept Margaret]
9

135562-)
When one character in this play admits that he's a Milwaukee fan, another character says: "Milwaukee! That's like being hit on the head with a crowbar once a day". One character in this play notices glasses marks on another character's nose and points out that an unseen female character also had glasses marks on her nose. One character in this play times how long it takes another character to simulate walking across a bedroom and a hallway while feigning a limp. After one character in this play sticks a (*) switchblade into a table to point out how unusual its handle is, another character sticks an identical switchblade into the table. In this play, an impatient baseball fan, a racist, and a man whose son rebelled against him are all convinced to change their votes. For 10 points, Juror #8 convinces the other eleven jurors to acquit a boy on trial for murder in what play by Reginald Rose?
Twelve Angry Men
9

135568-)
After this character is shown a folio copy of one of the original Rosicrucian texts, he talks about buying a novelty book called An Eastern Fakir's Eternal Wisdom for a quarter, which inspired his belief that his genius is the result of reincarnation. After declining to visit Egypt with another man, he and that man form a two-person secret society called The Pyramid. In that novel, the destruction by racist firemen of an object named for this man leads another man to hold the (*) Morgan library hostage. In one novel, this man is honored by the worship of the letter T by citizens of the World State, and Mustapha Mond is referred to by an honorary title that includes this man's name. In E.L. Doctorow's Ragtime, Coalhouse Walker seeks revenge for the destruction of an object produced by the company of this man, who names the calendar in Brave New World. For 10 points, name this namesake of an American car company.
Henry Ford
9

135574-)
In this play, a husband tells his wife "if you can contrive any way of being a whore without making me a cuckold, do it", to which she replies: "you would allow me the sin but rob me of the pleasure". One character in this play sings a song in which every stanza mentions "trifles", while another character uses the phrase "as the saying is" in nearly all of his lines. When one character in this play entrusts another with a cashbox containing two hundred pounds, the latter begins to suspect the former of being a (*) highwayman. In this play, a priest who claims to be from Brussels is tricked into admitting that he's really Irish. The innkeeper's daughter Cherry warns one protagonist of this play about Gibbet's plan to rob the house of Lady Bountiful. Mrs. Sullen flirts with one of this play's protagonists, while the other marries Mrs. Sullen's sister-in-law Dorinda. For 10 points, name this Restoration comedy about the fortune-hunting schemes of Archer and Aimwell, by George Farquhar.
The Beaux' Stratagem
9

135577-)
his poet declared "We must uncenter our minds from ourselves" in a poem that asks "Now the spoiler has come; does it care?" and then replies "Not faintly". One poem by this author says to the reader: "You are not Catullus, you know, / To lampoon these crude sketches of Caesar". In a poem by him, a woman must ford a flooding river on horseback to provide Christmas presents for her daughter Christine, because her husband has forgotten to buy them. He notes that "the flower fades to make fruit, the fruit rots to make earth" in a poem that describes America "heavily thickening to (*) empire / And protest". One poem by this author of "Carmel Point" and "Be Angry at the Sun" describes an animal whose "broken pillar of the wing jags from the clotted shoulder". For 10 points, "Shine, Perishing Republic" is by what Californian environmentalist poet of works like "Roan Stallion" and "Hurt Hawks"?
Robinson Jeffers
9

135579-)
The title character of one story by this author spots her husband fooling around with another woman near a beehive, but is protected from the gendarmes by the other villagers after she repeatedly stabs her rival to death through the neck. This author created a character who laughs with her lover about the fact that army sapping parties have a life expectancy of nine minutes, shortly before she is harassed by a vaudevillian to whom she'd given bad a review. One story by her ends with a dream in which a man cries: "Murderer! [...] Cannibal!" as a woman eats the (*) blossoms off of a tree. This author of "Maria Concepcion" wrote a novella in which Adam Barclay dies from the influenza epidemic that infects Miranda, and a story in which Laura muses about euthanizing Eugenio while the Mexican revolutionary Braggioni serenades her. For 10 points, name this Southern writer of "Flowering Judas" and Pale Horse, Pale Rider.
Katherine Anne Porter
9

135581-)
In this novel, the protagonist's co-workers eat Friday lunches in the bakery bathroom, where they learn that a Puerto Rican from the Mission fled New York after his rich boss's daughter fell in love with him during Spanish lessons. After an unfamiliar woman wishes "Merry Christmas" to this novel's protagonist, he thinks through the Christmas story, echoing his earlier vision of Christ coming up to Tucson to play poker with a redhead and a Swede before they board a nightmare train to their deaths. The protagonist of this novel remembers visiting (*) Stumpy Tesla's Shale City brothel with his best friend Bill Harper while he is being masturbated by his day nurse, with whom he can only communicate by "tapping" his head against a pillow. For 10 points, name this horrific journey into the trapped mind of the limbless, faceless World War I artillery victim Joe Bonham, an antiwar polemic by Dalton Trumbo.
Johnny Got His Gun
9

135585-)
When one character in this play meets a man named Elijah, he replies: "Why, I had no idea you were still around. I've read some of your stuff." One scene in this play ends with one character asking: "Why [...] have you moved so far away from me?", to which another replies: "All motion is relative. Perhaps it is you who have moved awayÂ—by standing still." One character in this play gets himself named "temporary honorary Colonel" after he objects to that title being bestowed only on his opponent. One character in this play collapses and dies when (*) radio men turn off his microphone as he tries to give a speech to a disinterested crowd. His rival places a copy of the Bible and one other book together in his briefcase at this play's close. The cynical journalist E.F. Hornbeck is based on H.L. Mencken, and Henry Drummond is based on Clarence Darrow in, for 10 points, what play by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee that fictionalizes the Scopes Monkey Trial?
Inherit the Wind
9

135588-)
This poet wrote that "High up there are no thorns to prod" in a poem that declares that "they who plod / Their rugged way, unhelped, to God / are heroes". This poet paid homage to a man whose "kindness followed his horizon's rim" and who was "no miser in the good he held". This poet of "Not They Who Soar" recalled a time when "The plant of freedom upward sprung, / And spread its leaves so fresh and young" in a poem that tells its addressees: "Thy name is writ on (*) Glory's scroll / In characters of fire". He described scars that "pulse again with a keener sting" in a poem that also describes a sound that "is not a carol of joy or glee", but a prayer sung from the "heart's deep core". For 10 points each, name this Harlem Renaissance poet of Lyrics of Lowly Life, whose poem "Sympathy" contains the line "I know why the caged bird sings".
Paul Laurence Dunbar
9

135592-)
After the protagonist of this novel follows his father into a carnival tent where a naked obese woman writhes in a coffin, he is smacked by his mother and he puts stones in his shoes and walks for a mile as penance. After seeing a message about the "friendliest bed in town" scrawled on the wall of a bathroom stall, the protagonist of this novel gets involved with a prostitute who insists that his hat makes him look like a preacher. The protagonist of this novel encounters an evangelist who falsely claims to have (*) blinded himself with lye, and has an affair with the evangelist's nymphomaniac daughter, Sabbath Lily. One character in this novel kills the man who plays "Gonga the Gorilla" to take his suit, and steals a mummified dwarf that he believes will become the "new jesus". Enoch Emery tags along with Hazel Motes, who founds the Church Without Christ in, for 10 points, what first novel by Flannery O'Connor?
Wise Blood
9

135600-)
One character in this play remarks that he heard that the oranges abroad are painted to disguise their natural green color, after learning about a dinner guest's trips to Africa and Yugoslavia in a sardine boat. This play's protagonist refuses to be dissuaded from seeking legal action against a "punk" who "ain't right" by a lawyer who no longer keeps a pistol in his office because Americans have learned to "settle for half." In this play, the protagonist attacks a jazz-singing blond under the pretext of giving a (*) boxing lesson. Beatrice grows increasingly resentful of her lack of intimacy with this play's protagonist, whose creepy relationship with his stenographer niece Catherine is perturbed by her decision to marry the undocumented immigrant Rodolpho, whom they are sheltering with his brother Marco. For 10 points, name this play about the Brooklyn longshoreman Eddie Carbone, a work by Arthur Miller.
A View from the Bridge
9

135604-)
 Part of this poem is set "when the stars glisten'd / All night long, on the prong of a moss-scallop'd stake". One character in this poem exclaims: "O how joys, dreads, convolutions, human shapes, and all shapes, spring as from graves around me!". Another character in this poem asks: "Low-hanging moon! What is that dusky spot in your brown yellow?" after earlier crying: "Shine! shine! shine! / Pour down your warmth, great Sun!". Near the end of this poem, the speaker declares: "A thousand (*) warbling echoes have started to life within me, / Never to die". One character is called "the solitary guest from Alabama" in this poem, which is set on Paumanok's shore. In this first poem in the "Sea-Drift" section of a certain collection, the speaker hears the ocean lisp "the low and delicious word death". For 10 points, name this recollection of the childhood memory of hearing a mockingbird cry out for its lost mate, a poem by Walt Whitman.
"Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking"
9

135607-)
One story by this author juxtaposes an old woman plucking the heart out of a dove, with a boy strangling a dove to death as his sister tries to stop him. In another story by this author, Carruther wrongly accuses Martin of being the one who farts in the elevator every morning. One story by this author of "The Gingerbread House" illustrates a series of scenarios in which the protagonist does or does not have sex in a bathtub with her boyfriend Jack or employer Mr. Tucker, while taking care of Jimmy, Bitsy, and the baby; that story is "The (*) Babysitter". In the most famous novel by this author of Pricksongs and Descants, the protagonist has a sexual encounter with Ethel Rosenberg in Sing Sing shortly before she is executed in Times Square, after which Uncle Sam sodomizes that protagonist, Richard Nixon. For 10 points, name this American postmodernist author of The Public Burning.
Robert (Lowell) Coover
9

135609-)
In a story by this author, a woman decides to quit a "core group" of co-workers after seeing a Vietnam vet's ear in a box on a date with the narrator at a "spade place" called the Off-Broadway. In another story by him, a black family waits around a hamburger wrapper-strewn table during their stabbed son's operation. One of this author's characters jokes about a strawberry pie's soporific quality during his first time smoking pot. The vitamin saleswoman Donna has a brief affair with her boss Patti's husband in a story by this author, who also wrote a story in which Howard and Ann are harassed by (*) phone calls from a bakery about their hospitalized son Scotty, who is hit by a car on his birthday. The wife of one of his narrators writes a poem about having her face touched by the blind Robert, who is inspired by a TV show on the Middle Ages to hold the narrator's hand as he draws a building. For 10 points, name this alcoholic author of "A Small, Good Thing" and "Cathedral."
Raymond Clevie Carver
9

135615-)
One of this author's essay collections begins with reflections on a critic's complaint that he habitually uses the pronoun "we" to refer to different groups of people. An effort to explain why 150 students applied for his course on the title author merges into an analysis of Clifford Geertz's hermeneutics in his final, unfinished essay, "Why We Read Jane Austen". He argued against the claim that the title Wordsworth poem is "a dirge sung over departing powers" in his essay "The Immortality Ode". With Harold (*) Bloom, he co-edited the Romantic and Victorian volumes of The Oxford Anthology of English Literature. His most famous collection of essays argues that literature combats the title leftist reduction of art to social ideology, by revealing the "variousness and possibility" of human activity. For 10 points, name this Columbia University-based cultural critic, who wrote Beyond Culture and The Liberal Imagination.
Lionel (Mordecai) Trilling
9

135618-)
NOTE: This answer has two components: a character and an action.This character seeking this action imagines another character's eyes saying: "Suppose I tell him to turn. He will do what I say.", to which she responds by imagining stabbing that character. While hoping for this action, this character repeatedly thinks the phrase: "You could do so much for me if you just would" about a man who had to be pulled up a hill on a plowline. This character seeks this action because of a game whose result depended on whether her sack was or was not full of cotton. (*) Moseley refuses the ten dollars this character's boyfriend gave her to pay for this action. While this character is attempting this action, she is conned with the phrase "hair of the dog" into having sex with a young pharmacist named Peabody. Meant to relieve a condition resulting from a dalliance with Lafe, for 10 points, name this operation that a certain member of the Bundren family seeks, in order to end her pregnancy.
Dewey Dell's abortion [accept any equivalent for "abortion" that involves terminating pregnancy, before the last line]
9

135621-)
In a poem titled for a color and this substance, the speaker concludes, "The only only thing is to believe in everything" after deciding to join the "masked ball." The speaker lists "the glass side of a building lit up at night" in this substance as a "[marriage]... worth celebrating" in "Freely Espousing" by James Schuyler, who called this substance "greasy sense-eclipsing" while describing someone who can't see in "The Crystal Lithium." "The Great Depression had entered our souls like" this substance in a pantoum by Donald Justice. Elizabeth Bishop's (*) "Moose" evokes "the white hens' feathers, / in gray glazed cabbages" of this "shifty, salty, thin" substance, which another poem claims, "sits looking / over harbor and city / on silent haunches / and then moves on" after coming in "on little cat feet." For 10 points, name this title substance of a Sandburg poem, which "rubs its back upon the window-panes" in "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock."
rontal fog [accept word forms like foggy; prompt on "precipitation"] (The leadin is from "The Foggy, Foggy Blue" by Delmore Schwartz)
9

135625-)
A man who saves the false teeth his sister wore for this kind of place's national beauty pageant accuses his brother-in-law of being a "park ranger" for its "endangered species." A visitor to one of these places is told to go home "on the cousin [he] rode in on" before revealing he learned of its high TB rate from his major at UW-Madison. While defecating, a bigamist dying of lung disease recites his acceptance speech for honorary mayor of one of these places, whence his daughter moves to Boston to publish cookbooks with her cultural fetishist husband Ross. The adopted tourist (*) Benjamin debates identity with the panhandling violinist Ronnie in a play titled Trying to Find [this type of place], where the "topguide" Fred and his gangster brother Johnny put on fake accents to give holiday tours. For 10 points, name this kind of neighborhood exemplified by the San Francisco setting of Frank Chin's The Year of the Dragon.
Chinatown [accept Little Canton; accept Little Fuzhou or Doyers Street; prompt on San Francisco or California or other less specific answers that plausibly refer to San Francisco's Chinatown; prompt on "Manhattan" or "NYC" or the "Big Apple" or "New York" or other less specific answers that refer to a New York Chinatown]
9

135628-)
This author wrote: "There is nothing worse for our trade than to be in style" in a poem that declares: "Senora, it is true the Greeks are dead". This author described Teeny "about to cough / In waltz-time" in a poem that describes: "Vasserot / The armless ambidextrian [...] lighting / A match between his great and second toe". He wrote: "To feel creep up the curving east / The earthy chill of dusk" in a poem that begins: "And here face down beneath the sun / And here upon earth's noonward height". This poet of (*) "Invocation to the Social Muse" and "The End of the World" described an object that is "Dumb / as old medallions to the thumb" in a work that declares: "A poem should not mean / But be". He wrote a play in which Nickles and Zuss make a bet as to how the title banker will react if they ruin his life, in a retelling of the biblical tale of Job. For 10 points, name this American poet of "You, Andrew Marvell", "Ars Poetica", and the verse drama J.B.
Archibald MacLeish
9

135629-)
In one play, a housewife reminisces about doing this action at "The Wop's" before he and his garden are burned down by The Mystic Crew. One man complains that this action is spoiled by a woman who sounds like she's "[warning] somebody that the house was on fire", by imploring him to put on his Shantung silk suit from Rome. After a hotel proprietress encourages an elderly poet to do this, she grapples with a man over a cart as onlookers shout in German. A woman tells her husband that she was "plainly mistaken" that men lose their (*) looks from this action, which that husband quit sports announcing to pursue, until he hears a "click" in his head. In order to "make the lie true" by conceiving a child, a cabinet full of things for this action is emptied by Maggie the Cat. For 10 points, name this favorite pastime of Reverend Shannon, Brick Pollitt and other Tennessee Williams characters drowning their sorrows.
drinking alcohol [accept alcoholism or imbibing spirits/liquor/red wine/beer/rum-cocos or any other clear-knowledge equivalents]
9

135633-)
An author with this last name wrote a poem that ends: "bury me not in a land of slaves". In a novel by an author with this surname, a woman sings a hymn beginning with the words "Dropping souls no longer grieve / Heaven is propitious" to a man who then realizes that she is his niece. That author created the racist Dr. Gresham, whose marriage proposal is rejected by the title half-black nurse during the Civil War. In a novel by an author who publishes under this first name, a sheriff declares that a man who tried to stab a girl dressed in a (*) ham costume died from falling on his knife. This is the last name of the author of Iola Leroy. An author who uses this first name wrote the recent novel Go Set a Watchman and created a black man whose arm was mangled in a cotton gin and who is accused of raping Mayella Ewell. For 10 points, give the first name used by the creator of Scout and Atticus Finch.
Harper
9

135638-)
This family's mantelpiece is decorated with a green metal serpent amid photos that only show one member naked, shaming him when he dusts them on Saturdays. Two children of this family help their friend choose a gold butterfly for his girlfriend on a Fourth of July Hudson River boat trip. One member of this family is called a "pretty man" by a servant working for the same house, who comes late to church with her mother following his invitation. Another member of this family imagines suffering "perils" in the darkness before seeing a (*) city "way up in the middle of the air." After his mistress demands money to raise their child in Chicago, one member of this family steals it from his barren first wife Deborah. The murdered Roy is the eldest son of this family's patriarch Gabriel, who is the deacon for a church of "saints" where its illegitimate member John is "saved" in a vision on "the threshing-floor." For 10 points, name this Harlem house divided from Go Tell It On the Mountain.
Grimes family
9

135646-)
The speaker of this poem recalls: "The statue / of Colleoni's horse / with the thickset little man / on top" that "comes persistently" to his mind. One book of this poem opens by declaring that: "All appears / as if seen / wavering through water" when "Approaching death". The speaker of this poem says that there is something urgent he has to say, "But it must wait / While I drink in / the joy of your approach / perhaps for the last time". This poem declares: "It is difficult / to get the news from poems / yet men die miserably every day / for lack / of what is found there". This poem is written in the (*) triadic-line form that the poet employed throughout the collection Journey to Love, in which it was included. This poemÂ—which was written as an attempt to win back the poet's wife, FlossieÂ—describes something that is "like a buttercup / upon its branching stem", except for its color. For 10 points, name this long poem about a certain flower by William Carlos Williams.
"Asphodel, That Greeny Flower"
9

135648-)
One of this author's essays begins by citing Charles Dickens' claim that William Godwin wrote Caleb Williams backwards. This author divided the mind into Pure Intellect, Moral Sense, and Taste, and argued that literature should appeal only to the last of these, in an essay that declares that the mistaken belief that "Poetry is Truth" leads to "the heresy of the Didactic". He argued that works that have to be read in more than one sitting lack "unity of impression" in an essay that claims that the death of a beautiful (*) woman "is unquestionably the most poetical topic in the world". This man succeeded Thomas W. White as editor of The Southern Literary Messenger. This author's posthumous reputation suffered when his enemy Rufus Wilmot Griswold became his literary executor. For 10 points, name this author of "The Poetic Principle", whose essay "The Philosophy of Composition" explains why his most famous poem uses the word "Nevermore".
Edgar Allan Poe
9

135652-)
A character with this profession recalls the eighteen-hour flight that began with her work partner declaring his passionate love for her, as she later watches that work partner slip into a fatal diabetic coma. That character with this profession has an affair with an industrialist, but marries the industrialist's translator after the industrialist is killed while shielding a young woman from the bullets of government troops. In that novel, this is the profession of the only female hostage not released by the (*) terrorists who take over the vice presidential mansion of an unnamed South American country. One character gains money to study for this profession from the life insurance of a train conductor named Ray who dies in a wreck. That character becomes enamored of the ruins of cliff-dwellers while in Panther Canyon, Arizona with Fred Ottenburg. For 10 points, name this profession of Roxanne Coss in Ann Patchett's Bel Canto and Thea Kronborg in Willa Cather's The Song of the Lark.
opera singer [prompt on "musician"]
9

135655-)
In one work set in this decade, one character recalls asking his father why he isn't like Toussaint L'Ouverture, to which the father responds by kicking him in the mouth. In that play set in this decade, one character repeatedly says: "Wake up and give me the money" to which another replies: "Come here. Here go the money.". In a novel set during this decade, the protagonist is subject to a hazing ritual called "The Treatment" as punishment for refusing to box for G company, because he accidentally blinded a previous sparring partner. (*) Milt Warden has an affair with the wife of Captain "Dynamite" Holmes in that novel set in this decade. Vera plans to go to Chicago with musician Floyd Barton before he is killed in a play set in this decade from the Pittsburgh Cycle. For 10 points, name this decade that is the setting for August Wilson's Seven Guitars and for From Here to Eternity, which fictionalizes the attack on Pearl Harbor.
1940's
9

135656-)
One poet with this first name discusses the notion that a "clown-faced woodpecker probing the dead sculpted trunk" is "some tragic falling off from a first world of undivided light", and noted that a typo for "Action painting" would be "paining", in a poem in which the last word is not completed in the phrase "The object of this poem is not to annihila--". This is the first name of an author who described the title object as "A scalded toothless harp, uncrushed, unstrung." in a poem that begins: "The tongue of the (*) waves tolled in the earth's bell. / Blue rippled and soaked in the fire of blue." A man with this first name wrote the poems "Meditation at Lagunitas" and "Time and Materials". This the first name of the author of "The Want Bone", who wrote a text-adventure interactive fiction called Mindwheel and used near and slant rhymes in terza rima in his 1994 verse translation of Dante's Inferno. For 10 points, name this first name of the Californian poets Hass and Pinsky.
Robert
9

135659-)
One character in this play suggests that jokes about yogurt on the sitcom Little Margie are proof that yogurt is not health food. One character in this play claims that another character spilled his Fresca as a diversion to cheat during their poker game, and that he stole a pig iron from another character. One character in this play gets beaten up after he mistakenly claims that a character who had his jaw broken by a gang of Mexicans was taken to Masonic Hospital, instead of Columbus Hospital. Two characters in this play argue about whether an unseen character will have the (*) combination for his safe written down somewhere in his house. That character, Bobby, was supposed to help this play's protagonists with a job, before they opted for Fletcher instead. For 10 points, name this play by David Mamet in which Don and Teach abort their attempted robbery of a man who bought the titular nickel.
American Buffalo
9

135664-)
This character explains a dream in which she dives for a can of Medaglia d'Oro coffee at the bottom of a swimming pool, shortly before she tells a story about covering a blackboard with quotations from Epictetus. She is touched when she finds out her brothers secretly watched her play Pegeen in Playboy of the Western World. She accuses her boyfriend of talking like a "section man" when he describes his essay on Flaubert while they have lunch. Reading the Russian book The Way of the (*) Pilgrim causes this character to have an existential breakdown about reciting the Jesus prayer. That breakdown causes her to faint while on a date with Lane Coutell, worrying her mother: retired vaudevillian Bessie. She is cured by a phone call in which one of her siblings impersonates their eldest living brother, Buddy. For 10 points, name this youngest sibling in the J.D. Salinger's Glass family, whose title story is paired with that of Zooey.
Frances "Franny" Glass [accept "Frances Glass"; prompt on "Glass"]
9

135671-)
Along with The Wonderful Adventures of Nils, this novel was cited as formative in the Nobel lecture of Kenzaburo Oe, who analyzed one character's desire for escape through the quote, "All I wanted was to go somewheres." "Fear and alarm" are what Toni Morrison remembers most about her first encounter with this novel, according to her introduction. An explanatory note prefacing this novel affirms that its characters are not "trying to talk (*) alike and not succeeding." This novel provides the title of 1948 essay on homosocial bonding in American literature by Leslie Fiedler. Ernest Hemingway said that all modern American literature comes from this novel, whose protagonist decides he'll "go to hell" while tearing up a letter to Miss Watson. For 10 points, name this dialect-rich novel whose protagonist runs away to avoid being civilized by Aunt Sally, a work by Mark Twain.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
9

135673-)
One story by this author ends with the protagonist imagining advertising executives trying to figure out the perfect place to put a sign for Spry brand shortening. While on a lecture tour in Eastern Europe, the protagonist of one of this author's stories is smitten with the title character, who claims that her poems are hard to write but not to read. This author of "The Bulgarian Poetess" wrote a story that ends with a son kissing his father on the lips and asking why the father and mother are separating, to which the father realizes he has no answer. In a series of stories including (*) "Your Lover Just Called," this author of "Toward Evening" chronicled the deterioration of the marriage of Joan and Richard Maple. The narrator of one of his stories impulsively quits his job after his boss chews out three pretty girls for wearing only bathing suits while shopping for herring snacks at the title store. For 10 points, name this creator of Henry Bech and author of "A&amp;P".
John (Hoyer) Updike
9

135677-)
In a play by this author, a clairvoyant cleaning woman warns the protagonists to "Beware of Hootie Pie". One of his characters declares that horoscopes are false because Jesus was a Capricorn, and Capricorns are attracted to Virgos and Scorpios, but Jesus wasn't attracted to anybody. That character created by him holds Aloysius at gunpoint, while deliberately ignoring that he's raising his hand to ask to go to the bathroom. A woman who dresses up as Maggie Smith acting as the Wicked Queen from Snow White is one of the title siblings named by their parents after (*) Chekhov characters in his most recent play, Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike. In a play by him, Thomas is rewarded with cookies for answering catechisms posed by the title nun, who teaches dogma to the audience. For 10 points, name this American playwright, whose satires on the Catholic church include Sister Mary Ignatius Explains it All for You.
Christopher (Ferdinand) Durang
9

135680-)
One poem by this author ends by asking the wind to "Cut the heat-- / plough through it, / turning it on either side / of your path." This author declared: "Thoth, Hermes, the stylus / the palette, the pen, the quill endure / though our books are a floor / of smouldering ash under our feet" in a poem that interweaves descriptions of the temple of Karnak and the London Blitz. The lines "Hurl your green over us, / Cover us with your pools of fur" conclude one poem by this author, who depicted her sessions with (*) Sigmund Freud in "The Master". She asked: "Did her eyes slant in the old way? / was she Greek or Egyptian?" about the title figure of a poem containing sections titled "Eidolon". Her Trilogy includes the poems "The Flowering of the Rod" and "The Walls Do Not Fall". For 10 points, name this poet of Sea Garden and Helen in Egypt who was, along with her husband Richard Aldington, one of the leading figures in Imagism.
Hilda Doolittle [accept initials, or just "Doolittle"]
9

135682-)
This author wrote a poem whose speaker excoriates: "You found with all your boasted wisdom / How hard at the last it is / To keep the soul from splitting into cellular atoms". He wrote a poem in which an abandoned game of checkers precedes a dialogue between Yogarindra, Loki, and Beelzebub. The speaker of one poem by him concludes: "Degenerate sons and daughters / Life is too strong for you-- / It takes life to love Life". One poem by him begins: "Henry got me with (*) child, / Knowing that I could not bring forth life / Without losing my own". The lines "Bloom forever, O Republic, / From the dust of my bosom!" is spoken by a mistress of Abraham Lincoln in a poem by him. He described a man who "babbles of the fish-fry of long ago / Of the horse-races long ago at Clary's Grove" in the opening of one collection, which declares "All, all are sleeping on the hill". For 10 points, name this American author of the Spoon River Anthology.
Edgar Lee Masters
9

135694-)
This place is the "cultured hell that tests my youth" "feeds... bread of bitterness" to the speaker of one poem and houses "libraries of tears" for another, who recalls a childhood meeting where "Everybody must have / been a spy." The speaker of another poem named for this place identifies with a man "finding the same old stupid plan / Of dog eat dog, of mighty crush the weak." One poem asks this title place, "When will you send your eggs to India?" while another asks, "Say, who are you that mumbles in the dark?" After he has "given all" to this title location of a "million (*) Trotskyites," one poem's speaker decides he's "putting [his] queer shoulder to the wheel' after telling it, "Go fuck yourself with your atom bomb." To show he is a part of this country, a "darker brother" vows to "be at the table / When company comes." For 10 points, name this title country of an Allen Ginsberg poem, which too is sung by the speaker of a poem by Langston Hughes.
America [accept the United States of America or the USA or any other equivalents]
9

135698-)
In a novel by an author with this last name, one character tries to look up "pinking shears" in a dictionary and finds that dried flowers have been pressed into a dictionary, at the entries for the letter of their name. An author with this last name created a character who drops off her children with their grandmother and then drives a Ford car off a cliff and into the lake in which her father died in a train derailment. In that novel by an author with this last name, the narrator's sister Lucille and the narrator (*) Ruthie are abandoned by their mother in the town of Fingerbone and raised by their aunt, an eccentric drifter named Sylvie. The author of the novel Housekeeping shares this last name with the author of poem that includes the refrain "Out of a grave I come to tell you this" and which opens by telling its addressee to "Go to the western gate". For 10 points, give this last name of the poet of "Luke Havergal".
Robinson
9

135701-)
This author described sitting next to a man on a plane who asks him to mouth the words "I want to die" so he can practice lip-reading. This author examined Thomas Harriot's account of his contact with American Indians in an essay that states that subversiveness is "contained by the power it would appear to threaten". The line "I begin with a desire to speak with the dead" opens an essay in which he argues that plays try to produce a kind of collective experience called "social energy". He defined identity as "a characteristic mode of (*) address to the world" and discussed how its formation changed in the Renaissance through a process of "self-fashioning". He claimed that we should use imagination to fill in the gaps in our knowledge of Shakespeare's biography in a speculative work on "How Shakespeare became Shakespeare". For 10 points, name this American literary critic who wrote Will in the World and founded New Historicism.
Stephen (Jay) Greenblatt
9

135703-)
When several characters in this play are worried that one character might slit his wrists when left alone in a bathroom, another character assures them: "That's the kid's bathroom. The worst he could do is brush his teeth to death." A newswriter in this play is asked where he gets his ideas from and he responds: "The news". When one character in this play tells another character to stop waving a spoon while they argue, the other explodes and yells: "Spoon? You dumb ignoramus. It's a ladle". The first act of this play ends with one character unknowingly calling another by his (*) wife's name as he lays on a pillow and wishes him goodnight. This play opens with a poker game including Vinnie, Murray and Speed, and includes a disastrous double-date with two English upstairs neighbors, the Pigeon Sisters. For 10 points, slob Oscar Madison and neat- freak Felix Ungar clash after becoming roommates in what play, the most famous by Neil Simon?
The Odd Couple
9

135711-)
In this novel, the most recent presidential election saw Hubert Hoag lose ina landslide to Winston Noble. One character in this novel complains that all artis abstract, although in the past paintings had shown people. The protagonist'sreminiscing about playing in the sand with his cousin in interrupted by a commercialfor (+) Denham's Dentafrice. One character, who introduces herself as seventeen andcrazy, is afraid of children her own age because sixteen of her friends died in a year from shootings and car wrecks. The neighbor of (*) Clarisse McClellan goes on to meet with Faber, who flees to St. Louis after Captain Beatty discovers him. For ten points, name this novel in which a Mechanical Hound pursues the fireman Guy Montag, written by Ray Bradbury.
Fahrenheit 451                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
7

135714-)
This author wrote a novel in which a rehab facility in Peril Strait serves as afront for raising red heifers. In that novel, Mendel Shpilman was considered to bethe Tzaddik Ha-Dor, and the shooting of Emanuel Lasker at the Hotel Zamenhofis investigated before the (+) Federal District of Sitka reverts to Alaska. In anothernovel by this author, a character beats up Carl Ebling after breaking into the office of the Aryan American League. Earlier, that character had escaped from (*) Prague with the help of magician Bernard Kornblum. This author of The Yiddish Policemen's Union wrote of Sammy and Joe creating The Escapist for Empire Comics. For ten points, name this author of The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier &amp; Clay.
Michael Chabon                                                                                                                                                                                                             
7

135718-)
One man in this book openly defies the instructions of a letter signed by "D.R.ANTHONY AND 1,000 OTHERS". Another man in this book justifies a decisionusing the anecdote of a Confederate Captain who overruled his orders to enterSavannah harbor following the advice of his lookout. In the preface, this book's authorcredits his (+) "research associate, Theodore C. Sorensen". Each of this book's fourparts opens with an introduction titled "The Time and The Place". One chapter talks of George Norris touring Nebraska to explain his (*) filibuster of the Armed Ships Bill, and another discusses Edmund Ross's "not guilty" vote in the Johnson impeachment. Other chapters follow Robert Taft, Thomas Hart Benton, and Daniel Webster. For ten points, name this collection of eight biographical sketches of Senators written by John F. Kennedy.
Profiles in Courage
7

135719-)
This playwright wrote of Sammy Goldenbaum committing suicide in OklahomaCity after attending a party with Reenie in a work ending with Rubin Flood returningto his wife Cora. In another work of this writer, (+) Turk poses with a javelin forMarie, who is engaged to Bruce from Cincinnati, and an alcoholic chiropractor falls off the wagon. This author of (*) The Dark at the Top of the Stairs and creator of Doc Delaney wrote a play in which Rosemary begs Howard to marry her and a fraternity brother of Alan Seymour works odd jobs for Helen Potts. Later, Madge skips the title event to have sex with Hal, who is run out of town and hops a train to Tulsa. For ten points, name this playwright of Come Back, Little Sheba and Picnic.
William Inge
7

135720-)
In one poem, this author wrote of the "stale" "fret and tumult" of ordinarylife, concluding that "men never can be still/ But in their graves". In another work,he decided that if he lived to old age to "Let them smile, as I do now/ At the oldforsaken bough/ Where I now cling". This poet of (+) Daily Trials by a SensitiveMan and The Last Leaf wrote of hearing a "clearer note...Then ever Triton blew from wreathed horn" urging him to (*) "Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast". He advocated that it was better to "give her to the god of storms", letting "her shattered bulk" and "every threadbare sail" sink in one work and lamented a "Wrecked...ship of pearls" that taught him to "Build thee more stately mansions". For ten points, name this Fireside poet of Old Ironsides and The Chambered Nautilus.
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr.
7

135725-)
In one story by this writer, a tombstone-shaped sign saying "Effects of MacGorkle's whiskey, - kills at forty rods" is left next to a passed-out drunk. In that work, the school teacher Miss Mary receives azaleas and favors after rescuing that man, Sandy, and adopts his son, Tommy. In another story by this writer, a man nicknamed (+) "The Innocent" lost forty dollars to a gambler, who gave it all back and warned him never to gamble again. Another character in that story starved herself to give her rations to (*) Piney, while the protagonist announced his suicide with a deuce of clubs pinned by knife to a tree. This author of The Idyl of Red Gulch wrote of Mother Shipton and John Oakhurst dying when their camp was snowed in after being exiled from the title town. For the points, name this author of The Outcasts of Poker Flat.
Bret Harte
7

135730-)
This poet wrote of pictures of the British royal family and a stuffed loon watchingover the funeral of cousin Arthur. In another work, this writer begged a friend fromNew York City to "please come flying". This author of First Death in Nova Scotiaand (+) Invitation to Miss Marianne Moore wrote of a grandmother hiding hertears while a girl draws with crayons in a kitchen in Sestina. In one work, a baby rabbit and owls scatter after an (*) "illegal fire balloon" hits a cliff, and that poem ends with the image of a "weak mailed fist clenched ignorant against the sky". This poet decided "some realms I owned, two rivers, a continent/ I miss them, but it wasn't a disaster" in a villanelle that repeats "The art of losing isn't hard to master". For ten points, name this poet of The Armadillo and One Art.
Elizabeth Bishop
7

135731-)
One character in this play brags of shorting his sister $2.50 when paying back $10in dimes. In this play, Willy repeatedly sings a song with a "rap, rap, rap". Anothercharacter claims to have been almost hit by a car while crossing an (+) empty streeton the day after his sixtieth birthday. That man lost his bid at alderman when his wife died. A member of The Movement is on trial for a bombing after being turned in by her son, Don. The prostitutes (*) Margie and Pearl are managed by the bartender, who will not admit he is a pimp and is named Rocky. The policeman Moran and Lieb arrest a character who shot his wife in her sleep and who encourages his friends to let go of their pipe dreams named Hickey. For ten points, name this play set at Harry Hope's bar written by Eugene O'Neill.
The Iceman Cometh
7

135733-)
This character is treated to a meal at a Greek restaurant on his way to see 2001:A Space Odyssey. This character briefly works as a linotypist at the Vat newspaper.This man buys a condo in Valhalla Village in Florida, and while he is on a date with(+) Peggy Fosnacht, his house burns down, killing Jill and causing Skeeter to go missing. This man suspects that Annabelle Byer is his daughter by the prostitute Ruth. The cocaine habit of this man's son, (*) Nelson, costs him his business, Springer Motors. His daughter Rebecca drowns in the bathtub while his wife Janice is drunk in the first book in which he appears. This native of the Brewer, Pennsylvania area is a former high school basketball star. For ten points, name this subject of a tetralogy in which he "is Rich" and is "at Rest" written by John Updike.
Harry "Rabbit" Angstrom (accept either underlined portion, prompt on last name)
7

135739-)
This writer documented a Monterey County Board of Supervisors meetingin which the citizens wanted to shut down Joan Baez's Institute for the Study ofNon-Violence, and repeatedly posed the question "In what way does the Holy Landresemble the Sacramento Valley?" in (+) Notes From a Native Daughter. Shecovered the investigation of Lucille Miller for murdering her husband in a burning car in San Bernardino in Some Dreamers of the Golden Dream and learned that "it is distinctly possible to stay too long at the Fair" before moving to (*) Los Angeles from New York. This New Journalist was denied interviews with the Diggers and the San Francisco Police Department in a piece she wrote while following acid-selling Deadeye and the runaways Jeff and Debbie in the Haight-Ashbury district. For ten points, name this essayist of Goodbye to All That and Slouching Towards Bethlehem.
Joan Didion
7

135740-)
The protagonist of this work is told "You've got an awfully kissable mouth" by aboy at a country club dance and later apologizes to her aunt that she will not be ableto attend Draycott Deyo's dance. The protagonist of this story is staying with her(+) cousin for a month, but is invited to stay an additional two weeks to learn how to dress and talk to boys. That cousin becomes jealous when the protagonist becomes of object of affection of (*) Warren McIntyre, and after a game of bridge, goads the protagonist into driving to the Sevier Hotel to perform the title action. The protagonist cuts off her sleeping cousin Marjorie's braids before heading home to Eau Claire a day early. For ten points, name this short story about a provocative haircut written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Bernice Bobs Her Hair
7

135741-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist's mother becomes despondentafter her brother Yaakov dies in a car accident in Detroit. That protagonist, who ismentored by the sculptor Jacob Kahn, paints a scene with his mother torn betweenhis art and his father's travels called (+) Brooklyn Crucifixion. Those parents moveto Vienna to start Ladover yeshivas. In another novel by this author, the protagonist shares a hospital room with the blind Billy and the one-eyed boxer Mr. Savo after being hit in the eye with a (*) baseball; that ball had been hit by Danny Saunders, who decides not to follow in his father's footsteps as a Hasidic rabbi. The protagonist, who decides to become a Modern Orthodox rabbi, is Reuven Malter. For ten points, name this author of My Name is Asher Lev and The Chosen.
Chaim Potok
7

135743-)
One character in this work bonds with his son by eating gold flakes intendedto cure impotence. One chapter in this work is a self-account of its writer's sexualassault of teen star Kitty Jackson during an interview in Central Park. One charactereats Hunan string beans and Jaegermeister and leaves a freshly-caught fish when he iskicked out of the offices of (+) Sow's Ear Records. In one chapter, Uncle Ted goes toNaples to find his niece Sasha, and another chapter consists of a seventy-six page (*)slideshow called "Great Rock and Roll Pauses". One character used to play bass for the Flaming Dildos and is named Bennie Salazar. For ten points, name this collection of stories by Jennifer Egan.
A Visit From The Goon Squad                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
7

135746-)
n one story in this collection, it is noted that "does and fawns are two thingsthe world ain't never lacked" and Uncle Ike stays behind on a hunting trip to givemoney to a girl who had an affair with Roth. Another story of this collection seesa woman convinced her son was sold in (+) Egypt when he is actually set to beexecuted in Joliet. In addition to that story about Mary Worsham Beauchamp and (*) Delta Autumn, this collection contains a story in which Sam Fathers starves a dog for two weeks to tame him. That dog, Lion, dies during a hunting trip in which Boon, who can't hit with five shots at point blank range, stabs and kills the title character, Old Ben. For ten points, name this short story collection featuring The Bear, written by William Faulkner, whose title story is named for a spiritual.
Go Down, Moses                                                                                                                                                                                                            
7

135750-)
This poet wrote a poem that opened "It was not dying: everybody died" calledLosses. In another poem, he declared that the title figure "look[s] back at the leopardlike the leopard" but that "the world goes by my cage and never sees me". Thisauthor wrote a novel about the creative writing instructor (+) Mrs. Batterson andthe twelve-tone composer Gottfried Rosenbaum teaching at a women's college. This author of The Woman at the Washington Zoo wrote satirically of Benton in (*) Pictures from an Institution. In his most famous poem, he wrote of his "wet fur" freezing after falling from his "mother's sleep" to "black flak and the nightmare fighters" and stated that "when I died they washed me out. . . with a hose". For ten points, name this American poet of The Death of a Ball Turret Gunner.
Randall Jarrell
7

135752-)
In one work in this collection, three girls conspire to use geraniums, cloths, and"heavenly labials", to "check", "abash", and "undo" the title figure. Another, whichquestions the story of the ugly duckling, is Sonatina to Hans Christian. In additionto The Plot Against The Giant, this collection contains a work in which (+) elderswatch Susanna bathe in her garden and another which states that "The houses are haunted/ By white night-gowns". Another poem in this collection, centering on a funeral, declares (*) "Let be be finale of seem" and bids to "Call the roller of big cigars" to "whip" "concupiscent curds". For ten points, name this poetry collection containing Peter Quince at the Clavier, The Disillusionment of Ten O'Clock, and The Emperor of Ice Cream written by Wallace Stevens.
Harmonium
7

135753-)
In one scene in this novel, a dozen buzzards carry the body of Gideon Tomfrom a dredge belonging to the Model Land Company. One character in this novel isgiven the nickname Margaret Mead, but after saving Emily Barton from drowning, iscalled Hell's Angel. After finding (+) The Spiritist's Telegraph, one character elopeswith her boyfriend Louis Thanksgiving. Kiwi discovers his father working at a casino and rescues his stranded sister Osceola. This novel opens with the death of (*) Hilola Bigtree, who had been known for her Swimming with the Seths routine, and is narrated by her daughter Ava, who trains to be an alligator wrestler. For ten points, name this Karen Russell novel about a bankrupt Florida tourist park.
Swamplandia!
7

135757-)
One character in this work repeatedly says "Ftt". Another character wraps a dog'stail in red kleenex to prevent it from being shot by hunters. Early in this book, thenarrator protects his boat from Hurricane Donna. The narrator travels to (+) NewOrleans to hear the Cheerleaders jeer outside a newly-desegregated school, and earlier fails to cross the border to Canada due to missing rabies vaccination documentation. That character celebrates Thanksgiving in Texas while his companion is being treated for prostatitis. Earlier, he is mocked by (*) Minnesotans for getting lost on his way to Sauk Centre, the birthplace of his friend Sinclair Lewis, while driving a truck called Rocinante. For ten points, name this book subtitled In Search of America about a journey with a dog written by John Steinbeck.
Travels with Charley                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
7

135760-)
The protagonist of this work kills a sheep with a rock after a failed sacrifice duringa night of drinking in college with Steve Garvey and Jud Hume. That protagonist ofthis work dates a woman who repeats that her mother died of breast cancer as heundressed her in the elevator. The disillusioned protagonist promises to look for (+)an advertising job to his pregnant fiancee, Betty. Earlier, he had gone on a "field trip" to meet an admirer for a tryst, and later is asked the point of it all by that woman's crippled husband. The title character, who was part of a love triangle with (*) Peter and Fay Doyle, reads letters by Desperate and Sick-of-it-all and works for the editor Shrike at the New York Post-Dispatch. For ten points, name this novella about an advice columnist written by Nathanael West.
Miss Lonelyhearts
7

135761-)
One story in this collection is about a man leaving his home and ends with himand his partner pulling on opposite arms of their baby. Another story sees Dummy killhis wife and himself after a flood destroys his bass pond. In addition to (+) PopularMechanics and The Third Thing That Killed My Father Off, this collection contains a story about Burt stealing his ex-wife's ashtray on the day after Christmas called A Serious Talk. The final story concerns L. D. being kicked out by his wife Maxine and not being able to say its titular One More Thing. This collection's story (*) The Bath was adapted into its author's later work A Small, Good Thing. The title story of this collection sees Mel and Terri debate whether her abusive ex-husband had really loved her. For ten points, name this short story collection by Raymond Carver.
What We Talk About When We Talk About Love
7

135764-)
One character in this play is asked to lock up her Diana trophy from anintercollegiate archery contest, and is later caught in a lie about a gifted cashmererobe she bought in Memphis. That character in this play calls her nieces and nephews(+) "no-neck monsters" and says that their names sound like four dogs and a parrot; those children included Trixie, Dixie, and Polly. This play's second act features a long dialogue about "mendacity". One man reveals to his father that the diagnosis from the Ochsner clinic was cancer, not a (*) spastic colon, after the father withheld a crutch for an ankle injury from jumping hurdles at night. That man feels the "click" from drinking after his wife lies about being pregnant to please Big Daddy. For ten points, name this play about the tense marriage of Maggie and the alcoholic Brick Pollitt written by Tennessee Williams.
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
7

135771-)
The narrator of this novel briefly works for Nanantatee, who pays for everythingwith pearls, and he visits the Pension Orfila because his girlfriend Mona had beenobsessed with Strindberg. The narrator of this novel is forced to leave the apartmentof the (+) artist Kruger so that he would not die in front of a potential patron. Thenarrator is invited to move to Crimea with his lover, although declines for fear that he could not find work as a proofreader. The narrator claims that (*) "Paris is a whore" and declares in his opening monologue that "I am fucking you, Tania, so that you'll stay fucked". A Russian princess named Macha moves in with the narrator and Fillmore, the latter of whom abandons Ginette and returns to America. For ten points, name this autobiographical novel about expatriates written by Henry Miller.
Tropic of Cancer                                                                                                                                                                                                           
7

135775-)
One character in this play says that Indians "like to talk to salesmen". Anothercharacter in this play becomes an accomplice in a crime "because [he] listened", whilehis partner forms an (+) alibi by going to the Como Inn. Characters in this play usethe "Kenilworth" trick to avoid talking to James Lingk. One character in this play cannot afford a one-hundred dollar bribe, so he takes something off the (*) B list, as his two bosses would not give him anything better. A crime in this play is investigated by Baylen, although Williamson solves it when Levene caught him in a lie. The salesmen Dave Moss and Ricky Roma work for Mitch and Murray in, for ten points, which play about Chicago real estate agents by David Mamet?
Glengarry Glen Ross
7

135776-)
The protagonist of this novel comes up with an elaborate comeback to herboyfriend's assertion that a poem is a "piece of dust", and later tells him she has adate with Peter the Hermit and Walter the Penniless. The protagonist of this novelpetitions her (+) college dean to audit Mr. Manzi's chemistry class. The protagonistturns down a job as a waitress at a sanatorium in order to go to New York City, and later breaks her leg skiing while at the sanatorium visiting (*) Buddy Willard. She is sponsored at a hospital by the wealthy novelist, who had given her a scholarship before she interned at Ladies's Day Magazine, named Philomena Guinea. While in the hospital, she receives shock therapy under Doctor Nolan. For ten points, name this novel about the suicidal Esther Greenwood written by Sylvia Plath.
The Bel l Jar
7

135777-)
One man in this work is sacrificing his house for the construction of a fire lane,but he dies when it collapses early. Another figure in this work, while being treatedfor a weeks-old broken leg, is found to have spot hemorrhages. The Jesuit priest (+)Father Kleinsorge finds pumpkins roasted on the vine and a group of twenty soldiers with their eyes melted out. A Molotov flower basket or fine magnesium powder are theorized as the medium of an (*) attack, whose refugees gather in Asano Park to be cared for by Mr. Tanimoto. This work is divided into sections including The Details Are Being Investigated and The Noiseless Flash and begins "at exactly fifteen minutes past eight in the morning on August 6, 1945". For ten points, name this work of journalism by John Hersey profiling six survivors of the first atom bomb attack.
Hiroshima                                                                                                                                                                                      
7

135778-)
The title character of one of this man's poems is described as "Too poor to shinein courts, too proud to beg" as he "Sits musing o'er his scars, and wooden leg" and hewas left only "famine and a name". Another poem by this author declares that "Bymidnight moons" (+) "The hunter still the deer pursues", as images called "fancies ofa ruder race" depict "Activity, that knows no rest". That poem questions the notion of death as "soul's eternal sleep". Another work assures the title figure (*) "No roving foot shall crush you here" before admitting "I grieve to see your future doom". This poet of The American Soldier and The Indian Burying Ground wrote that "From morning suns and evening dews" "The space between is but an hour/The frail duration of a flower". For ten points, name this poet of The Wild Honey Suckle.
Philip Freneau
7

135781-)
In one story by this author, the voice of the Sweeney's nurse is identified asshe read about the Yonghy-Bonghy-Bo. Another work by this author ends with theburning of the manor at Clear Haven, where one character had found his wife afterhis name was tarnished by a bandleader's wife. That character's brother worked as a(+) Taper on Island 93, and his father had lost his ship, the Topaze, while crossing the Nagansakit. Those characters, from a novel based in St Botolphs, were (*) Moses, Coverly, and Leander. Another protagonist of this author traveled across the county from pool to pool before finding his house empty and was named Neddy Merrill. For ten points, name this author who wrote stories The Enormous Radio and The Swimmer for The New Yorker and wrote the novel The Wapshot Chronicle.
John Cheever
7

135785-)
This author wrote a short story in which the plain title character is pursuedby the handsome John Marble, causing her mother to anticipate the failure of theirmarriage. In addition to telling about the widow Mrs. Ewing in (+) Lolita, this writertold of a character who gave his wife a black eye and left her for two days when she joked about it while drinking. The protagonist of that story toasts drinks with her husband saying "Here's mud in your eye!". She spends nights at (*) Jimmy's with her boyfriends when that husband, Herbie, leaves her for Detroit. That title character travels to New Jersey to obtain two vials of veronal, but her attempt at suicide with them is unsuccessful. For ten points, name this author who created Hazel Morse in Big Blonde, a founding member of the Algonquin Round Table.
Dorothy Parker
7

135786-)
This man referenced Carl Sandburg in a poem saying "chicago? the hogbutcher!meatpacker! whatever! who cares? it's also like cleveland! like cincinnati!" Anotherpoem by this man begins "aretha/ crystal jukebox queen of hymn &amp; him" anddeclares "now's not the time to act silly, so wear your big boots &amp; jump on thegarbage clowns". This man wrote of the title entity (+) "Blowing like a circle aroundmy skull/ From the Grand Coulee Dam to the Capital" in a work that repeats "It's a wonder that you still know how to breathe". This poet of the collection (*) Tarantula included Idiot Wind in his Blood on the Tracks. For ten points, identify this poet of who is also known for writing and playing songs such as Subterranean Homesick Blues and Mr. Tambourine Man, the 2016 Nobel Laureate in Literature.
Bob Dylan (or Robert Allan Zimmerman)
7

135791-)
One character in this work is said to "look at [others] as one of the old lions ortigers may have looked at the Christian martyrs". On her deathbed, one characterasks her mother to tell the protagonist she was never engaged. A (+) boat ride ateleven o'clock is cancelled when one participant's younger brother Randolph falls asleep; the destination of that ride was the (*) Chateau de Chillon. A young lady refuses a ride in Mrs. Walker's carriage after walking around the Pincian Hill with two gentlemen. After being spotted with Mr. Giovanelli at the Colosseum by Winterbourne, the title character develops Roman fever. For ten points, name this novella about the title American socialite written by Henry James.
Daisy Miller                                                                                                                                                                                                               
7

135794-)
In this decade, Winterhalter Elementary school in Detroit was firebombed aspart of the Winchell riots. The Iceland Understanding and the Hawaii Understandingwere signed in this decade to prevent war. Metropolitan Life unveiled a programto relocate employees to Danville, Kentucky named after the (+) Homestead Act.The Office of American Absorption sent young boys to inland farms through its Just Folks initiative, which was championed by Rabbi Bengelsdorf. This decade opened with a surprise candidate (*) flying into the Republican National Convention in Philadelphia and winning on an isolationist platform. For ten points, name this decade during which, in Philip Roth's The Plot Against America, Charles Lindbergh was elected president to keep the United States out of World War II.
1940s
7

135796-)
One character in this play claims to have wrestled with Death for three days andnights and uses an excuse of renting furniture from the Devil to avoid lending his sonten dollars. The protagonist of this play repeatedly sings about a dog Blue who "treeda possum in a hollow log". This play ends with one character failing to (+) blow hishorn three times. The protagonist's mistress Alberta dies giving birth to Raynell. The protagonist is promoted to (*) driver from his position as garbage man, and he prohibits his son Cory from playing football. For ten points, identify this play in which the former baseball player Troy Maxson builds the title object, written by August Wilson.
Fences
7

135800-)
This author wrote a novel in which the title character is a diminutive exchangestudent who stopped a school shooting by killing Trevor Stonefield. He also wrote ofmodel Shannon McFarland secretly feeding female hormones to Brandy Alexanderafter getting her jawbone shot off. This author of (+) Pygmy and Invisible Monsterswrote a story in which a boy loses most of his large intestine in a masturbation accident entitled (*) Guts. He wrote about a character who lives in a house on Paper Street with Marla Singer, who fraudulently frequents support groups, and renders animal fat to produce soap. For ten points, name this author who wrote of the narrator's adventures with Tyler Durden in Fight Club.
Chuck Palahniuk                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
7

135801-)
This writer learned to understand Cezanne when he was hungry, and he learnedthe term "inaccroachable" from a woman who explained that he could buy clothesor paintings. After winning a pair of horse bets, this man took his wife to eat atMichaud's, where James Joyce ate. This man's wife lost a case with all his original(+) stories at the Gare de Lyon station. This man went on a driving trip with the hypochondriac F. Scott (*) Fitzgerald, taught Ezra Pound to box, and visited Gertrude Stein at her apartment in the Rue de Fleurus. In his autobiography, he was called Tatie by his wife Hadley and told of his cat F. Puss babysitting his infant son Bumby. For ten points, name this American author whose memoir A Moveable Feast describes his time in Paris, when he wrote Big Two-Hearted River and The Sun Also Rises.
Ernest Hemingway
7

135803-)
The narrator of this work feels that her maid is lying when she claimed to find"yellow smooches" on the laundry. The protagonist of this story wakes up in themiddle of the night and argues with her husband about whether her appetite hasimproved. After a week of (+) fog and rain, the narrator claims that her house smellsso bad that she considers burning it down. The narrator tries to see a woman (*)creeping outside through all windows at once. Having been discouraged from writing, the narrator does it in secret and hides from the maid, Jennie. The narrator's husband threatens to send her to Weir Mitchell for treatment, and as a physician, he does not believe that she is sick. For ten points, name this short story about a woman who becomes obsessed with the titular decoration written by Charlotte Perkins Gilman.
The Yellow Wallpaper                                                                                                                                                                                                             
7

135805-)
Anne Sexton compared this object to ants "if their little legs were only/ stitchedon and their heads pasted". Charles Bukowski discussed this object's prevalenceduring the depression era in a poem called We Ain't Got No Money, Honey, But WeGot [this object]. (+) Joyce Kilmer praised the title Trees for "intimately liv[ing] with"this object. The poem somewhere I have never travelled,gladly beyond mentioned this entity's small features, and this word concludes (*) E. E. Cummings's other poem anyone lived in a pretty how town, proceeding "sun moon stars". William Carlos Williams's Red Wheel Barrow was glazed with this substance. For ten points, name this substance which drops on the apple trees in Emily Dickinson's Summer Shower.
rain
7

135808-)
One character in this story does not want a job as a clerk or bartender butclaims that he is "not particular". The narrator of this story moves his office closer toCity Hall citing the unwholesomeness of the air. (+) One character suggests that thenarrator walk around the block two or three times after refusing to open the office door. Rumors that that character had worked in a (*) Dead Letter Office in Washington are reported after he dies at the Tombs. That character is given six days notice and a twenty dollar severance package after declining to examine testimony with Turkey, Nippers, and Ginger Nut. For ten points, name this short story whose title character is a law office copyist who "would prefer not to" written by Herman Melville.
Bartleby, The Scrivener: A Story of Wall Street                                                                                                                                                    
7

135813-)
In this play, one character's husband does not allow her to show her Wagnerautograph to a dinner guest. Another character makes up a tradition of toastingthe last drink. A woman in this play is slapped for warning her (+) niece about anarranged marriage; that woman yearns for her childhood plantation home, Lionnet, and is told about "people who eat the earth" by the servant Addie. While (*) Alexandra fetches her sick father from Baltimore, Leo steals a safe deposit box to "borrow" 88 thousand dollars worth of Union Pacific bonds for Mr. Marshall in Chicago. Horace dies of a heart attack while his wife withholds medicine to secure her business interests. For ten points, name this play in which Regina outwits her brothers Oscar and Ben into ownership of their cotton mill written by Lillian Hellman.
The Little Foxes
7

135815-)
In one poem, this figure was said to have worked "Against the foulest crime inhistory known in any land or age". Another poem asks for peace so that this man"may sleep on his hill again". In one poem about this subject of This Dust WasOnce The Man, (+) the narrator offers a sprig of flower at a waiting depot "Withthe tolling tolling bells' perpetual clang". This man is seen "Near the old court-house pacing up and down" in poem about him walking at (*) midnight by Vachal Lindsay. Another poem that exclaims "O how should I warble myself for the dead one there I loved?" and "O powerful western fallen star" mourns this leader's death amid the scent of lilacs and appears in Leaves of Grass. For ten points, name this president who was "fallen cold and dead" in Walt Whitman's O Captain! My Captain!
Abraham Lincoln
7

135816-)
A doctor in this work became a Freudian to atone for his work at Buchenwald, and makes a call at 3 am with an invitation to join a drug experiment called The Bridge. One character in this novella starts (+) Inamorati Anonymous after a failed self-immolation. Two characters see a violent play about the kingdom of Faggio described as a "road runner cartoon in blank verse" called The Courier's Tragedy, after which the protagonist learns about (*) Thurn and Taxis from Genghis Cohen. In a bathroom, that protagonist saw the symbol of a muted trumpet and the abbreviation W.A.S.T.E. belonging to the Trystero organization. This work ends with an auction of stamps belonging to the recently-deceased Pierce Inverarity. For ten points, identify this novella about Oedipa Maas written by Thomas Pynchon.
The Crying of Lot 49
7

135817-)
This novel tells its readers to mail the publisher for an omitted reunion scene,requests for which received instead a story about a legal roadblock caused by KermitShog. One boy in this novel lives with the swordmaker Yeste in Madrid after themurder of his (+) father. Another character in this novel built the Zoo of Death sothat he could kill one animal every day. This novel is presented as an abridgement of (*) S. Morgenstern's Classic Tale of True Love and High Adventure and was written by William Goldman. One man's life is restored by Miracle Max. One character is tied to a tree after a duel at the Cliffs of Insanity and another is poisoned with iocane powder. A Turkish wrestling champion named Fezzik interrupted the marriage of Prince Humperdinck with the help of the fencer Inigo Montoya. For ten points, name this novel about the romance of Westley and Princess Buttercup.
The Princess Bride
7

135821-)
In this work, the character Morty Philips gets sick after using all his luck on aswim. The narrator of this work describes his first date with a stocking-cap-wearingLinda, who dies of a brain tumor at age 9. One chapter tells of Mark Fossie's girlfriendMary Anne Bell joining the (+) Green Berets, and in a chapter titled On the RainyRiver, the narrator tells of Elroy Bergdahl, who took him on a fishing trip on border waters and paid him $200 for staying the week at his lodge. Norman Bowker blames his failure to earn a (*) silver star on the smell and Kiowa dies in a shit field. This work, which includes the chapter The Sweetheart of the Song Tra Bong, tells of Henry Dobbins, who humps his girlfriend's pantyhose. For ten points, name this short story collection about the men of Alpha Company during the Vietnam war by Tim O'Brien.
The Things They Carried
7

135834-)
Alice Hindman ran naked through the streets of this city after waiting years forthe return of her betrothed Ned Currie. A woman in this city learned about thesweetness of gnarled apples from her husband, Doctor (+) Reefy. Jesse Bentley wasstruck with a rock by his grandson David during a botched goat sacrifice in this city, where Wash Williams got violent with a chair after his mother-in-law pushed his estranged wife back on him. The teacher (*) Adolph Myers moved to this city after being accused of coming on to his students, causing him to always keep his hands in his pockets and change his name to Wing Biddlebaum, as told in the story Hands. George Willard worked for this city's Eagle newspaper. For ten points, name this city whose residents are sketched in a collection by Sherwood Anderson.
Winesburg, Ohio 
7

135836-)
One character in this play ties a handkerchief around his head to avoid gettingscalped and thinks that tomahawk refers to the title character. This play ends withthat character completing a sneeze he had been working on for all three acts. Anagent withholds a release on the mortgage of the (+) Ravensdale Estate to coercethe owner to give his daughter, Florence, in marriage. The title character lights his cigar with a will so that Ms. Mary Meredith can claim his inheritance of land. An improvisation of a letter being read included the line (*) "birds of a feather gather no moss". Another character is called a "You sockdologizing ol' man trap" by the title character, Asa Trenchard, who travels in from Vermont, and Lord Dundreary. For ten points, identify this Tom Taylor play that was performed at Ford's Theater when Abraham Lincoln was assassinated.
Our American Cousin
7

135838-)
This character is accused of having a quarrel with the algebraists of Paris.This character determines that his companion, after being run into by a fruiterer, isthinking of the actor Chantilly. This man hires a man to shoot a musket in the streetas a (+) distraction while he visits a hotel and takes out an advertisement lookingfor a sailor on a Maltese vessel. This man correctly identifies a missing object despite it having a black instead of red (*) seal and deduces that it was turned inside out, and also argues that superhuman strength would be necessary to decapitate a victim and shove her daughter up a chimney. For ten points, name this character who solves the mysteries of The Purloined Letter and of the murder of Madame L'Espanaye in The Murders at the Rue Morgue created by Edgar Allan Poe.
C. Auguste Dupin (accept either underlined part)
7

135839-)
An abducted girl in this play is identified by the red doll's parasol she hadbeen carrying. The protagonist of this play and his children recite a story aboutPatrick Sullivan, who wants to understand his luck. Jolly Adams tries to tell hermother of the arrival of (+) three characters. The protagonist's wife is frustratedduring Thanksgiving dinner that her family will not express gratitude to God. At the beginning of this play, two characters use masks to create shadows on a stage in a tent; those characters, (*) Mr. Zuss and Nickles, enter carrying balloons and popcorn. In the end, Sarah reconciles with her husband after the deaths of their five children and the departures of Eliphaz, Zophar, and Bildad. For ten points, name this play by Archibald Macleish that retells the story of Job.
J.B.
7

135842-)
Police in this novel consult the psychic Adele T to find the Treadwells, but sheleads them to two kilos of heroin instead. The protagonist of this novel discusseswith his son whether to trust his senses in deciding if it is raining. The protagonistlearns German from a part-time (+) meteorologist and discusses whether Elvis was amama's boy with his friend Murray. Winnie Richards investigates a mysterious pill, designed to treat fear from death, called (*) Dylar, and she worked with the protagonist at College-on-the-Hill, where he works as a professor of Hitler studies. The protagonist becomes frustrated while talking to a SIMUVAC worker at a boy scout camp. For ten points, name this novel in which Nyodene D spills from a train car, causing an "airborne toxic event", written by Don DeLillo.
White Noise
7

135844-)
In this novel, a boy is mad when his father lies about adding cocoa to his owncup. At one point in this novel, the protagonist notes that he is 200 miles from thecoast "as the crow flies" before remembering that there are no more crows. Theprotagonist's wife had left to (+) kill herself with obsidian, and he later shoots a manfrom a diesel truck, leaving just one bullet in his gun, to save his son. The protagonist abandons the (*) cart he has rigged with an old motorcycle mirror before finding a first aid kit on an abandoned boat when he reaches the coast. The protagonist is wounded when he is shot with a makeshift arrow but is unable to get revenge with his flare gun. For ten points, name this novel about an unnamed narrator and his son walking for survival written by Cormac McCarthy.
The Road
7

135846-)
This author's first book was a nonfiction novel about a Labor Day picnic on BassLake led by Sonny Barger. This man wrote a memoir of forming the Freak Powerparty and running for mayor of (+) Aspen, Colorado. In a piece written for Scanlan'sMonthly, he wrote about working with illustrator Ralph Steadman to cover a horse race, and in a later work, he wrote about covering the Mint 400 motorcycle race. In that work, this author of (*) Hell's Angels and The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved wrote of visiting the Circus-Circus Casino with his attorney while under the influence of mescaline and ether. For ten points, name this author of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.
Hunter S(tockton) Thompson                                                                                                                                                                                                             
7

135850-)
A friend of this work's protagonist named Shalini lost her short term memoryin a deck collapse. The protagonist of this work helps fake the death of Adam Rich.The protagonist's younger brother gets a full scholarship to Black Pine Center and isfrequently told that his hat smells like (+) urine. The protagonist appears on televisioninterviewing Judd the cartoonist, and earlier regrets a sticker he sees in a bathroom bar saying "Screw those idiots (*) Might Magazine". The protagonist's father dies suddenly from lung cancer, and a month later, after a protracted nosebleed, his mother dies of stomach cancer. The protagonist moves from Lake Forest, Illinois to Berkeley and takes guardianship of his orphaned younger brother Toph. For ten points, name this memoir by Dave Eggers.
A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius
7

135852-)
This man worked with Adam Real-Last-Name-Unknown. This writer described aformative experience watching a cook have sex with a bride at her wedding receptionat a restaurant in Provincetown. This writer described how working for an "Italianfraternal organization" inspired his novel (+) Bone in the Throat. He lost a job aftermishearing an interview question, answering "Next to nothing" to the question "What do you know about meat?" This man noted a turning point in his life when he ate raw (*) oysters with Monsieur Saint-Jour in France as a child, and he called a halved fish head the best meal of his life, which he ate while working in Tokyo for his restaurant Les Halles. For ten points, name this author of Kitchen Confidential, a chef whose later book inspired a television show, No Reservations.
Anthony Bourdain
7

135856-)
In this story, anthropology professor William Channing Webb had studied theEsquimaux in Greenland and was later questioned by John Raymond Legrasse, whohad led a raid on a voodoo meeting outside (+) New Orleans. The crew of a Norwegianship is rescued by the Australian Vigilant with only its captain Johansen surviving and opens a (*) portal on an uncharted island in the Indian ocean. The narrator of this story is the executor of the estate of his great-uncle George Gammell Angell, in which role he finds a bas-relief of a monster he described as a cross between a human, a dragon, and an octopus. The title character of this story is said to wait dreaming in his house at R'lyeh. For ten points, name this short story describing the cults of a water deity written by H.P. Lovecraft.
The Call of Cthulhu
7

135858-)
One character in this play wrote his will on a roll of toilet paper after beinglocked in a toilet overnight. Another character says that man could not kill himselfbecause he wears a seatbelt at a drive-in movie. One character comes home late fromwork, causing the other's (+) London broil to dry out right before their double datewith Gwendolyn and Cecily. One character is four weeks late with his alimony to Blanche, while the other is suicidal after (*) separating from his wife, Frances. The character Speed leaves when a Pure-A-Tron air cleaner disrupts a poker game, which in the first act had served "brown" and "green" sandwiches. At the end, the Pigeon sisters allow Felix to move in with them and out of sports writer Oscar Madison's apartment. For ten points, name this Neil Simon play about two unlikely roommates.
The Odd Couple
7

135864-)
One work in this collection uses the example of a fisherman sailing into the fogbefore summarizing "We cannot think of a time that is oceanless". Another poemin this collection uses an antiquated spelling of the word "dancing" in a discussionof marriage, and the narrator claims to have wasted twenty years of "l'entre deuxguerres". The final poem claims that the (+) "only hope" is "To be redeemed fromfire by fire". The third work in this collection compares a river to a "strong brown god" and notes "Time is no healer: the patient is no longer here". Its second poem concludes (*) "In my end is my beginning", while the first begins "Time present and time past/ are perhaps both present in time future". For ten points, name this collection consisting of East Coker, The Dry Salvages, Little Gidding, and Burnt Norton written by T.S. Eliot
Four Quartets
7

135865-)
One character in this novel thinks that "take a leak" means "steal a mirror" andwas abducted by the Pluto Gang. In this novel, the Sacred Miracle Cave was damagedby a flood of industrial runoff from Barrytron. One character comes up with the story(+) Gilgongo! while hitchhiking to the Midland City arts festival, and his novel Now It Can Be Told convinces the protagonist that he is the only creature in the universe with free will. The text of this novel is interspersed with drawings including female underpants and an asshole. This novel ends with the protagonist attacking (*) Wayne Hoobler and his secretary Francine Pefko and biting off the finger of Kilgore Trout. For ten points, name this novel about the car dealer Dwayne Hoover by Kurt Vonnegut whose name refers to martinis.
Breakfast of Champions: or Goodbye, Blue Monday!
7

135867-)
Dr. Dunster tells the title character of one of this author's short stories that herupsighted friend Peggy Bond has cataracts, and he agrees to visit her in Byfleet. Thatwoman sews a button for a passing trainman in order to earn a trip to the Centennialcelebration in Philadelphia. The protagonist of another of this author's short storiesreceives a (+) jackknife on the first day of an unsuccessful hunt with a man she metwhile retrieving the wandering cow Mistress Moolly for Mrs. Tilley. This author of (*)The Flight of Betsey Lane told of a girl named Sylvia waking up at dawn to climb a tree in order to earn ten dollars from a visiting ornithologist, but deciding not to tell that man the whereabouts of the bird he seeks for his collection. For ten points, name this author of A White Heron.
Sarah Orne Jewett
7

135870-)
In one story by this man, a character quotes Herbert Spencer's definition of lifeand concludes that "consciousness is the creature of rhythm". The protagonist ofanother story by this author remembers that all famous marksmen had gray eyes aftera (+) sentinel's shot missed him. One of his characters uses the example of the rootsof a eucalyptus tree looking for water to prove that plants think, and the narrator of that work is saved from a burning house by the metal worker Haley after the death of the title character. This man, who wrote of a (*) chess-playing robot in Moxon's Master, wrote of a protagonist being told of a large amount of driftwood against a wooden pier that would "burn like tow" by a Federal scout before dreaming of his escape. For ten points, name this man who wrote about the hanging of Peyton Fahrquhar in An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge.
Ambrose Bierce
7

135871-)
This poet posits "Perhaps the roses really want to grow" in a villanelle thatconcludes "Will Time say nothing but I told you so?/ If I could tell you I wouldlet you know". In another poem, this writer hears a man singing of his eternal loveinterrupted by (+) clocks that chime "O let not Time deceive you/ You cannotconquer Time." In a third work, he notes "That the dreadful martyrdom must run its course". This author of (*) As I Walked Out One Evening gives the commands "Prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone" and "Pack up the stars and dismantle the sun" in a work sometimes titled Stop All The Clocks, and describes Brueghel's Fall of Icarus in a work which opens "About suffering they were never wrong/ The Old Masters". For ten points, name this poet of Funeral Blues and Mus`ee des Beaux Arts.
Wystan Hugh Auden                                                                                                                                                                                              
7

135872-)
One character in this novel planted "circus trees" but moved away before he atetheir fruit. Another character in this novel noted that pre-Christian Swedes believedthat linden trees resolved magic. Another character briefly abducted his friend'swife Angelique after a (+) jumping contest, and he gave a handful of turquoise fromMexico City to Marie before kissing her during a blackout. The protagonist consults Crazy Ivar about pig rearing at the farm she works with her brothers, (*) Lou and Oscar. That protagonist is visited by an engraver moving from St. Louis to Alaska to speculate named Carl Linstrum. Marie and Emil are shot underneath a mulberry tree by Frank Shabata. For ten points, name this novel about Alexandra Bergson's Nebraska homestead written by Willa Cather.
O Pioneers!
7

135875-)
This character takes her first confession after following Laura Danker to church.After this character moves from New York to Farbrook, New Jersey, she is told notto wear socks by Nancy. While at the Steak Place, she learns that Nancy's postcardclaiming (+) "I GOT IT!!!" was a lie. This student of first-year teacher Miles Benedict,Jr. has her feet stepped on at a square dance by Philip Leroy. She makes fun of the representative of the (*) Private Lady Company and opts for Teenage Softies. This member of the Pre-Teen Sensations prays "Don't you think it's time for me to start growing?". For ten points, name this character who gets her period in a novel by Judy Blume and asks "Are you there God? It's me".
Margaret Simon
7

135878-)
One ode to this figure states that "I walked on the grass, on the firm dew thatwas" this figure. Another ode calls this figure a "lover of bodies beneath rough cloth",declares that "the sun sings in the navels/ of boys who play under bridges", anddecries (+) "urban faggots, tumescent flesh and unclean thoughts." In another poem,this figure is asked "Will we walk all night through solitary streets" and "Which way does your (*) beard point tonight". This subject of odes by Pablo Neruda and Federico Garcia Lorca asked "Who killed the pork chops? What price bananas?" while "eyeing the grocery boys". For ten points, name this poet who was "poking among the meats in the refrigerator" in Allen Ginsberg's A Supermarket in California.
Walt Whitman
7

135880-)
A passerby is amused to hear this character mutter "puppy biscuit" to himself.Dr. Pritchard-Mitford tells this character "I've read your book on streptohricosis"before treating millionaire banker Wellington McMillan. This character repeatedlyhears the sound (+) "pocketa-pocketa-pocketa". This character plans to wear a slingon his arm when taking his car to the garage, and mention of the Waterbury trial precedes this character revealing to a (*) courtroom that he is also a deadly shot with his left hand. This character is scolded by his wife when she finds him sitting in a hotel chair holding his new overshoes after her appointment at the hairdresser. For ten points, name this daydreamer introduced in a James Thurber story about his "Secret Life".
Walter Mitty
7

135881-)
In one work, this man became indignant over the sexual harassment of his friendby the Zipper King. In another work, he criticized an essay by Frank Conroy subtitledAll This and a Tan, Too. This thinker described a Mary-Tyler-Moore-themed episodeof St. Elsewhere as (+) "in-joke within in-joke" in positing that TV culture is one ofirony and ridicule. In Derivative Sport in Tornado Alley, he told of his being blown into a fence during a tennis match in Champaign, Illinois. This author of (*) E Unibus Pluram wrote of a week spent eating at the Five Star Caravelle Restaurant aboard the Nadir in a heavily-footnoted essay. For ten points, name this author who wrote for Harper's Magazine about a trip to the Illinois State Fair and described a Caribbean cruise in A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again.
David Foster Wallace
7

135882-)
In this poem, a cloud lines up between the moon and a woman while her husbandmakes a discovery. One character in this poem wants to teach finding water with a"hazel prong" to Harold Wilson, who went to college instead. During a debate, onecharacter mentions a (+) brother 13 miles down the road who is a bank director afterthe other defines "home" as "the place where, when you have to go there/ They have to take you in". The request "Be kind" is met with the response (*) "When was I ever anything but kind to him?" about a man who had left during the last haying. This poem is structured as a conversation on a porch between a married couple, Mary and Warren, that begins with "Silas is back". For ten points, name this poem about the return of an old day laborer by Robert Frost.
The Death of the Hired Man
7

135884-)
A maid in this play rescinds her two weeks notice after seeing a singinganniversary telegram. One character in this play wins the title Miss Atlantic City 1942and is referred to as Miss Somerset when she (+) breaks character. This play's firstact ends with the request "Pass up your chairs, everybody. Save the human race." Three Muses, Judge Moses, and Homer (*) appear as refugees. Henry had been named Cain and George both develops the alphabet and invents the wheel. The central family of this play has pet dinosaur and a mammoth and survives an ice age. For ten points, name this play about the Antrobus family written by Thornton Wilder.
The Skin of Our Teeth
7

135891-)
In this short story, Sayre mentions that the story of the Pink Geisha was abouthis brother. The central figure of this short story visits a consulate to ask when therobins nest in the United States. The protagonist breaks a (+) mirror when hermaid suggests she get some beauty sleep, and she has a purple-eyed child named Trouble whose father's name she pronounces as "Ben-ja-meen Frang-a-leen". The main character contemplates a life in a castle with a thousand servants when (*) Yamadori proposes, but decides to wait for her husband's return. The title character of this John Luther Long work is found after committing harakiri by her maid Suzuki before a visit by her husband's new American wife. For ten points, name this short story about Lieutenant Pinkerton and Cho-Cho-San that inspired a Puccini opera.
Madame Butterfly
7

135893-)
In one play, a character wants to leave one of these events to go watch Modjelewskipitch. That play's first act ends with the protagonist asking "You don't really meanyou'll kill me, do you?" During one of these events in another play, one participant isasked (+) "Do you ever think about the things you do think about?" A central propused during one of these events is a pawn shop switchblade, and another of these events is covered by Baltimore Herald reporter (*) E.K. Hornbeck. Henry Drummond has to inform Bert Cates that he won this event, after which his opponent Matthew Harrison Brady dies. For ten points, name these events written about by Lawrence and Lee and Reginald Rose in Inherit the Wind and Twelve Angry Men.
trial (accept any answer involving a legal proceeding, accept jury deliberation and equivalents until second quoted question)
7

135894-)
One character created by this author dreams of himself and his assistant,Aminadab, botching a surgery. Another character of this author threw a bouquet toa girl in a garden only to see it wither in her hand. In that story, (+) Lisabetta showsthe protagonist a secret entrance to a garden in Padua before he notices a purple handprint on his wrist and offers an antidote created by Professor Baglioni. The title object of one of his stories is shaped like a (*) fairy's hand, and that story sees Aylmer treat his new wife Georgianna. The title character from another story walks with a fellow traveller whose cane is likened to a serpent, avoids Goody Cloyse on a path, and sees his wife Faith at a witches' sabbath. For ten points, name this author of The Birthmark, Rappaccini's Daughter, and Young Goodman Brown.
Nathaniel Hawthorne                                                                                                                                                                              
7

135895-)
This poem mentions a photograph of a Mosler safe which "survived the blast" inHiroshima. The "wasp-waisted" title figures of this poem are said to "grow slimmerand younger each year". The writer sees (+) "drained faces of Negro school-childrenrise like balloons" from his television. This poem mentions "Puritan-pumpkin colored girders" and "yellow dinosaur (*) steamshovels" as signs of the construction of a parking garage and ends by comparing cars to fish and claiming "a savage servility/ slides by on grease". A central object in this poem is "propped by a plank" and "sticks like a fishbone in the city's throat". For ten points, name this poem about a Civil War memorial in Boston written by Robert Lowell.
For The Union Dead
7

135897-)
The protagonist of one of this author's works gives her cousin a watch chain setwith two of her kidney stones, and a different protagonist projects Mickey Mouse andPopeye reels for a hospital ward. In one novella by this author, rumors of a murder arestarted by a character who suffers from three-day malaria named (+) Merlie Ryan. Acharacter in a novel by this author quits school to work at Woolworth's, has sex with Harry Minowitz, and scares her brother Bubber into running away after he shot Baby Wilson in the head. In addition to (*) Mick Kelly, this author wrote of a woman who lost a fight with her former husband of ten days, Marvin Macy, after the intervention of Cousin Lymon. For ten points, name this author who wrote of Miss Amelia Evans and the deaf-mute John Singer in The Ballad of the Sad Cafe and The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.
Carson McCullers
7

135900-)
In one novel, an organization attempting this action tempts a man with a firingsquad and a gallows before naming him their leader. In another novel, a group tryingto perform this action adopted the motto "Springfield, Enfield, throw 'em in thecornfield!" One group based at Jefferson College in Waco plans to use a festival at(+) Galveston to achieve this feat, which another group is helped a group based in Rivington, North Carolina called America Will Break. This action is advocated by the title group in a novel about (*) Bernard Belgrave and Belton Piedmont written by Sutton Griggs, Imperium in Imperio, and by an Andries-Rhoodie-led group of time-traveling South Africans. For ten points, name this action achieved in Harry Turtledove's Guns of the South by the Confederacy when it used AK-47s to capture Washington D.C.
seceding from the United States (accept equivalents, accept starting or winning a Civil War)
7

135905-)
In one story in this collection, a character gets a job as a correspondence artteacher by fraudulently claiming to be related to Daumier. In another story, thenarrator is impressed by Mary Hudson's baseball prowess while playing with the (+)Comanches. During an interview with Nicholson, a child in this collection predicts his death in a ship's swimming pool, and another child tells of the death of her imaginary friend Jimmy Jimoreeno. The opening story of this collection, which contains (*) Teddy, ends with Muriel napping in her hotel room and her husband returning from a day at the beach and shooting himself in the head. For ten points, name this collection containing Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut, A Perfect Day for Bananafish, and seven others written by J.D. Salinger.
Nine Stories
7

135909-)
One member of this profession digs up whiskey with Sonny after the latter borrowsfire from his boss, Mr. Redmond. That member of this profession dies while runningto his car after noticing that Sonny's wife was pregnant. Earlier, that protagonisthad gotten his car stuck in a ravine with thick grapevines on the road to Beulah,Mississippi. In addition to (+) Eudora Welty's R.J. Bowman, another member of thisprofession was encouraged to go do business in Alaska by his brother Ben, who owned diamond (*) mines in Africa by age 21. That man's son burns his UVa sneakers after catching him with his mistress in Boston. After toying with a rubber hose, he ultimately kills himself in a car crash for the insurance money. For ten points, name this profession of Arthur Miller's Willy Loman.
traveling salesman
7

136155-)
One section of this book cites a scene from Invitation to a Beheading in which Cincinnatus receives a certain form of "horoscope" to describe its title subject's "mock possession" of the future. Another section of this book ends by claiming that a certain poet's "discredited dream of cultural revolution" has been replaced by "paper ghosts." This book claims that a certain artist's subject is the "unhappy consciousness." The first section of this book argues that its title process is "essentially an act of non-intervention" and allows people to "take possession" of an insecure space, before ending with the declaration that (*) "today, everything exists to" be subjected to the title process. Many of the arguments in this book were later refuted in its author's later collection Regarding the Pain of Others. The second essay in this book argues that the Family of Man exhibition was the "last sigh of the Whitmanesque erotic embrace of the nation," and discusses pieces by Lewis Hine and Walker Evans. For 10 points, name this 1977 collection of essays that includes "In Plato's Cave," a book by Susan Sontag about an art form practiced by Diane Arbus.
On Photography 
9

136164-)
In a short essay, this author wrote that a story in which his mother shoved a sandwich down his throat after he tried to hide it in a snowbank was a "total fabrication." A book by this author begins with him paddling along an "encircled river" and includes biographical sketches of people like the tanner Donna Kneeland in the town of Eagle, Alaska. This man's most famous book grounds the ideas of several scientists in lengthy biographical digressions, including excerpts from the Wyoming diaries of Miss Ethel Waxham, David Love's mother. That book by this author of begins with a "narrative table of contents" that outlines the conflicting opinions of Kenneth Deffyes and Anita Harris. In that book by this author of (*) Coming into the Country, Harris critiques plate tectonics in the section "In Suspect Terrain." In that book, this author describes "Crossing the Craton" of America by driving along I-80 and watching geologists work. For 10 points, name this pioneer of creative nonfiction who wrote Annals of the Former World.
John (Angus) McPhee
9

136212-)
This concept was used to analyze its popularizer's work in a book by F.O. Matthiessen about that author's "Achievement." This concept may have come from an almost identical one in Santayana's Interpretations of Poetry and Religion. Santayana himself may have taken this idea from James Marsh, Ralph Waldo Emerson, and/or Washington Allston, who coined this term. This concept is exemplified by Lady Macbeth's sleepwalking scene and the "inevitability" of Macbeth's words on hearing of her death. (*) Gertrude is not an "adequate" one of these entities, causing her to be "enveloped" by her son's disgust. This concept was popularized in an essay that shockingly calls its title play "most certainly an artistic failure," and was published in The Sacred Wood. For 10 points, name this "set of objects," "situation," or "chain of events" that helps an author express a character's emotions, a concept popularized in "Hamlet and His Problems" by T.S. Eliot. 
 the objective correlative
9

136572-)
The narration of this work is triggered by the bar proprietor Bell's report that a Japanese photographer discovered a wooden replica of the protagonist's face in an African village.  The protagonist hints that she may be bisexual when she suggests she would sleep with Greta Garbo, and she suffers a miscarriage from rough horseback riding.  The protagonist's rich friend Rusty Trawler marries her roommate, the model Mag Wildwood, and O. J. Berman hires her lawyer following her arrest for delivering secret messages from O'Shaughnessy to the gangster Sally Tomato in Sing Sing.  The narrator helps her escape to follow her lover Jose Yberra-Jaeger to Brazil, after which he never sees her again.  FTP, Holly Golightly is the protagonist of what Truman Capote novella?
Breakfast at Tiffany's
9

136575-)
The opening scene of this work describes a fifteen or twenty foot high smooth mass of granite after the narrator describes the national significance of Lovell's Flight.  After being brought to safety, the protagonist is too sick to speak, and several days pass, making it too late for him to tell the others where his wounded friend is.  After marrying that friend's daughter Dorcas, the protagonist takes over that friend's farm but cannot focus properly due to his overwhelming guilt and is forced to sell it.  While traveling in the wilderness, Cyrus is accidentally shot by his father Reuben Bourne on the exact spot where the title character died.  FTP, name this short story in which the title character is never properly put to rest, a work of Nathaniel Hawthorne.
Roger Malvin's Burial
9

136577-)
The narrator of this poem states "I regret / That I should ape the ways of pride" of those "who climb to wealth" and "forget / The friends in darker fortunes tried".  Despite having "Yet slight thy form, and low thy seat", the addressee of this poem whose "parent sunÂ…bade thee view / Pale skies" is described as having "OftÂ…stayed my walk" with its "early smile".  Beginning "When beechen buds begin to swell / And woods the blue-bird's warble know", this poem's subject has a "modest bell" which "Peeps from the last year's leaves below".  Addressing "the modest flower / That made the woods of April bright", FTP, name this poem by William Cullen Bryant. 
The Yellow Violet
9

136580-)
One character created by this author meets a schoolboy who hides his journal in a tree trunk and the schoolboy's teacher, Miss McGeeney, while taking a tour of the interior of the Trojan horse.  The protagonist is inspired by Shagpole Whipple and meets Mr. Mape, who inherited the titular sum, in his novel about "The Dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin".  This author of The Dream Life of Balso Snell and A Cool Million also wrote a work in which one character stomps on Adore Loomis after being hit by a rock and is emotionally disturbed when Faye Greener sleeps with Miguel and leaves him.  In another of his works, the title character is sexually aroused by Mary Shrike and is shot by the cripple Peter Doyle.  FTP, name this novelist who wrote about Homer Simpson and Tod Hackett in The Day of the Locust and the titular newspaper columnist in Miss Lonelyhearts.
Nathanael West or Nathan Weinstein
9

136592-)
In one n ovel by  this author, two characters get into a duel against two carpetbaggers on Election Day. One of those characters, Drusilla, disappears towards the end of the novel she appears in, but not before giving another character two pistols to defend the family honor against Ben Redmond. That novel is the prequel to another work by this author, in which  (*) Bayard becomes a reckless driver and marries Narcissa Benbow. In another work, this autho  r of  The Unv  anquished and  Sartoris also wrote about the thirty-year fall of the Compson family. For 10 points, name this author of   The Sound and the Fury.
William Faulkner 
3

136595-)
One character in this novel answers "DAVID AND GOLIATH!" when asked who the first two disciples of Jesus were. That embarrassing event occurs after the title character of this novel acquires 1000 tickets to win a newly bound Bible through  (*) illicit means, most of which involved trading various knick-knacks. That title character witnesses the graveyard murder of Muff Potter by Injun Joe and later attends his own funeral after he, Joe Harper, and Huckleberry Finn run away to an island. For 10 points, name this novel written by Mark Twain.
Tom   Sawyer  (prompt on partial answer)
3

136597-)
 In one tragedy by  this playwright set near the Brooklyn Bridge, Eddie has an improper affection for his niece Catherine; that tragedy dramatizes mob control and is titled  A View from the Bridge. In another work by  this playwright, Reverend John (*)  Hale is brought in to investigate suspicious events; that work satirized McCarthyism with an allegory to the Salem Witch Trials. In another work by this playwright, one story arc features football player Biff. That story chronicles the adventures of Willy Loman. For 10 points, name this American playwright of  The Crucible and  Death of a Salesman.
Arthur  Miller
3

136599-)
In one work, this author's spiritual crisis is fictionalized in Myra Henshawe, who realizes that human love is inadequate. In a different work by this author, Marie Shabata has an affair with Emil, whose sister becomes a successful farmer even though she's a woman; that character is (*)  Alexandra Bergson. In yet another work by this author, after marrying Cuzak, the title character became the mother of a large family on a Nebraska farm. For 10 points, name this author of  O Pioneers! and  My Antonia.
Willa  Cather
3

136601-)
This novel's title character has a library of books that are mostly uncut, signaling that they haven't been read. Towards the end of this novel, Meyer Wolfsheim refuses to attend the funeral for the title character. Earlier in this work, the eyes of Dr. (*) T.J. Eckleburg are painted on a billboard near the auto repair shop of George Wilson, whose wife is killed by a car crash involving the title character. That wife,   Myrtle, was having an affair with Tom Buchanan, which angered his wife Daisy; however, she herself was having an affair with the title character. Nick Carraway is the narrator of - for 10 points - what novel written by F. Scott Fitzgerald?
The  Great Gatsby  
3

136605-)
One character in this novel has his internal organs spill after he's mortally wounded. That experience causes the main character of this novel to stop wearing his uniform in protest. In this novel, one character only sees people in his office when he is not there, and was promoted by "an IBM machine with a sense of humor almost as keen as his father's". That character received a promotion to the rank of (*)  Major. A different character attempts to gain a military promotion by making his men fly more and more army missions. For 10 points, name this novel featuring the pilot Yossarian, a novel by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22 
3

136607-)
In this novel, the main character and her brother are taken to First Purchase Church by Calpurnia, who is treated rudely when Aunt Alexandra decides to stay at the main character's house for a while. The main character's father shoots a bad dog; that event occurs after that father controversially takes the case of (*)  Tom Robinson, a black man accused of raping Mayella Ewell.  Go Set a Watchman is the sequel to this novel, often considered a bildungsroman about the daughter of Atticus Finch. For 10 points, name this novel about Scout, written by Harper Lee.
To Kill a Mockingbird
3

136613-)
The author of this work later stated that it was meant to be a joke and is heavily misinterpreted, but his best friend Edward Thomas decided to enlist in World War I because of this poem. The author of this poem has stated that it is supposed to be a mockery of (*)  indecision. This misunderstanding primarily results from a misreading of the lines "Two roads diverged in a wood, and I / I took the one less traveled by / And that has made all the diff'rence." For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem that, contrary to popular belief, is NOT titled "The Road Less Traveled".
"The  Road Not Taken " (Do not accept or prompt on "The Road Less Traveled". Laugh at anyone who gives this answer.)
3

136616-)
 In the opening of this book, Father Mapple provides a sermon about Jonah; that sermon is attended by one of the harpooners, whose coffin ironically ends up saving another character's life. The main human character of this book offers a gold doubloon to whoever finds the title character first. One character in this book, named (*)  Queequeg, is one of the many people on the crew of the Pequod. This novel's first words, "Call me Ishmael", reveal the name of the only person on that crew to survive the book. For 10 points, name this Herman Melville novel about Captain Ahab's unsuccessful fight with a titular white whale.
Moby-Dick  (accept  The Whale  before "white whale"; prompt after)
3

136618-)
In one work by this author, an old deaf man keeps ordering more and more brandy, much to the chagrin of a waiter who wants to get home to his family. An older waiter then reminds the youngun that maybe the old deaf man just needs "a (*)  clean, well-lighted place". In another work by this author, a character goes on with his wife Margaret; after a buffalo charges at him, Margaret accidentally kills that title character, Francis Macomber. In a different work by this author, a group of people go to Pamplona, where Lady Brett Ashley has a complicated relationship with the impotent Jake Barnes. For 10 points, name this author of The Sun Also Rises.
Ernest  Hemingway
3

136623-)
One work of this author begins with a section narrated by the author in which he declares his hatred of the characters he has created and concludes with a section narrated by a man watching over his sick wife.  In addition to that work about Edgar and the clairvoyant Ella Bend Hess, The Same Person, More Vital Data, and Household Apples are among the sections of one story by this author which includes such characters as the cat Mr. Tick, Uncle Halley, and the narrator's elderly neighbor Billy Holsclaw.  This author of Cartesian Sonata wrote a novel in which Jethro Furber leads a campaign against the protagonist following the hanging of Henry Pimber.  Another novel by this author follows a history professor who writes Guilt and Innocence in Hitler's Germany, William Frederick Kohler.  FTP, name this author of In the Heart of the Heart of the Country, Omensetter's Luck, and The Tunnel.
William H. Gass
9

136626-)
In one of this man's poems, the subject heeds the falling of acorns and chestnuts, attains "peace beneath the peaceful sky", and is compared to a "tender bud" which withered in an attempt to blossom in the snow.  Another of his poem's describes a time when "Georgius Secundus was then alive" and compares the popping of a bubble to the fate of its subject "That was built in such a logical way / It ran a hundred years to a day".  Another of his poems describes a man who had a Roman nose but was cut down by "the pruning-knife of time" and ridicules his three-cornered hat before the narrator encourages the future youth to do the same to him if he ends up on an "old forsaken bough".  FTP, name this American poet of Under the Violets, The Deacon's Masterpiece, and The Last Leaf, who wrote the line "Build me more stately mansions, O my soul" in his poem The Chambered Nautilus.
Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr.
9

136634-)
One character in this work asks a woman on the street to lace her shoes for her and earlier dances with a scarecrow after mistaking it for a man.  When offered some pennies out of another character's purse, one character replies "Five pennies is a nickel" and then expresses a desire to purchase a paper windmill.  Earlier, that character steals another nickel dropped by a hunter who chases off a big black dog using a gun and his own dog.  Upon arrival in town, the protagonist reveals that she has forgotten why she made her trip before receiving a bottle of medicine for her grandson's throat.  FTP, name this story in which Phoenix Jackson travels along the titular trail, a work of Eudora Welty.
A Worn Path
9

136636-)
Early in this work, one character is given a signal book by his fiancÃ©e, with whom he later plots to ambush a building which is infiltrated by another character disguised as a peddler.Â  Minor characters in this work include Alice Dunscombe, who is in love with one character but cannot marry him due to her political views.Â  Another character wishes to rescue Cecilia and Katherine from St. Ruth's Abbey, where they live with Colonel Howard.Â  A violent storm destroys the Ariel, killing Christopher Dillon and Long Tom Coffin, who manages to save Lieutenant Barnstable.Â  In the end, only Edward Griffith knows the identity of the title character.Â  FTP, name this novel in which the title character is actually John Paul Jones, a work of James Fenimore Cooper.
The Pilot
9

136647-)
One poem by this man tells its addressee "the spring shall bloom, but not for you" and states "'Tis far better to die than bear / the torments of another year", while another of his poems describes the safe havens of birds, squirrels, and wolves before detailing the bursting of mountains against an unguided barque.Â  In addition to Plato to Theon and The Hurricane, he wrote a poem which states "If nothing once, you nothing lose" and laments the "unpitying frosts" which will kill the subject as gay as the flowers of Eden.Â  In another poem, he states "The hunter still the deer pursues" and warns "No fraud upon the dead commit".Â  FTP, name this American poet of The Wild Honeysuckle and The Indian Burying Ground.
Philip Freneau
9

136652-)
One character in this work is asked to wear a white dress symbolizes purity at a rally partially addressing the castration of a black man, and that character earlier had a hysterectomy after contracting a venereal disease.  Another character sees his rival's mistress Miss Lucy in a cocktail lounge and has a confrontation with his lover's brother Tom Junior.  The protagonist of this work tape records a conversation in order to blackmail another character into getting him a good film role.  Shortly before the protagonist briefly faces Heavenly, his lost love, Princess Kosmonopolis arrives high on drugs.  FTP, name this play which concludes with Boss Finley's men entering a hotel room for Chance Wayne, a work of Tennessee Williams.
Sweet Bird of Youth
9

136655-)
In one work of this man, the sloop Story is the primary home of Peter and his wife pregnant with twin's, and that work's character Franklin Talbott is an adaptation of a former CIA agent and novelist who goes sailing in another of his works, Fenwick Scott Key Turner.Â  In another work, Jayda and Sindbad are exiled and Princess Yasmin marries the title character Simon Behler.Â  In addition to The Tidewater Tales, Sabbatical, and The Last Voyage of Somebody the Sailor, this author wrote a novel in which the protagonist spends forty weeks imprisoned in the Nether Campus and enters the belly of WESCAC three times presented as tapes recorded by Billy Bocksfuss.Â  In another novel, the Macks attend the titular performance at the harbor with Todd Andrews.Â  FTP, name this author of Giles Goat-Boy and The Floating Opera who wrote about the adventures of Ebenezer Cooke in The Sot-Weed Factor. Â  
John Barth
9

136660-)
One character in this work surprisingly doubles the pay of one of his workers after a manager urges his firing and explains to another character that he liked the picture with the same name as that character's poem better because it said the best that could be said on the subject.  Another character in this work is killed when he falls into an open hatch on a ship after a crewmember explains the efficiency of a mechanical packing method to him.  In this work, Dyke's gun misfires when he attempts to shoot S. Behrman, Annixter is killed in a gunfight, and the betrayal of Lyman ruins the powerful ranch owner Magnus Derrick.  The Toilers is the eventual product of the inspiration found in the west by the poet Presley.  FTP, name this novel in which the Pacific and Southwestern Railroad is likened to the titular creature, a work of Frank Norris.
The Octopus
9

136662-)
One poem by this man declares "Monody shall not wake the mariner" and describes a man who from a ledge watched "The dice of drowned men's bones", and another poem by this man mentions a "tribunal monarch of the air / Whose thighs embronzes earth" and begins by describing "The bell-rope that gathers God at dawn".  Loose pains crown the title location of another poem from which the narrator saw "death's stare in slow survey".  In addition to At Melville's Tomb, The Broken Tower, and Quaker Hill, he wrote a poem stating "Only in darkness is thy shadow clear", addressing a structure which is "Sleepless as the river under thee".  FTP, name this American poet of the collections White Buildings and The Bridge.
Hart Crane
9

136665-)
In a lecture, one character in this work asserts that the Wedding Guest undergoes a form of psychoanalysis and the Ancient Mariner says nothing important in Coleridge's poem.  Another character in this work brings hogs into the restaurant Chez Robert and afterwards takes a baboon to the opera.  Carl Peterson walks out on one character who states that homosexuality is a political crime and attempts to test him for it, and many characters in this work eat Black Meat, the flesh of a giant aquatic centipede.  Another character works for Islam Incorporated, where he conducts experiments producing mindless humans called INDs.  That character, Dr. Benway, works in Interzone along with compulsive drug addict Bill Lee.  FTP, name this novel by William S. Burroughs.
Naked Lunch
9

136677-)
One of this author's works begins with the steamship the Votaress launching for Louisville, and in another one of this author's works, General Brodnax obtains a command for his nephew Adolphe Irby, who is put in charge of the titular group of guns cast by his other nephew.  In addition to Gideon's Band and Kincaid's Battery, he wrote a work in which the title character endures accusations of witchcraft in order to protect the secrecy of the leprosy of his brother Jacques and another work in which Ursin Lemaitre gives up piracy for banking in order to marry Olive, whose mother swears that she is the daughter of a white woman in order to legalize the marriage.  In one of his novels, the protagonist commits suicide when he is rejected by Palmyre, a freed slave who attempts to use voodoo to get revenge on his uncle Agricola Fusilier.  FTP, name this author who included Jean-ah Poquelin and Madame Delphine in his collection Old Creole Days and penned the novel The Grandissimes.
George Washington Cable
9

136679-)
Plays written by this man include one following the self-centered Professor Hoadley and one in which the Announcer describes the titular event caused by the dictator the Conqueror.  His other works include the sonnet sequence The Happy Marriage and a long poem about a fertility ritual described in The Golden Bough, The Pot of Earth.  The memories of Bernal Diaz recreate the story of Cortes's destruction of the Aztec empire in his poem Conquistador.  One of his plays includes the circus vendors Zuss and Nickles and sees the title character refuse to be comforted by the priest Zophar after the deaths of all of his children.  Concluding another poem with the line "A poem should not mean / but be", FTP, name this author of the poem Ars Poetica and the verse-play J. B.
Archibald MacLeish
9

136683-)
The first review ever published of this work recommends it to the Bowery Theatre as a prime subject for a ballet and suggests that the dancers could occasionally be scattered by a bout of combat with the Happars.  Early in this work, the protagonist contracts a disease which causes his leg to swell and cannot be treated.  The protagonist of this work refers to a central lounging shed as the Ti, attends the Feast of the Calabashes, and enjoys boating on the lake with Fayaway.  An Australian officer is contacted by the taboo man Marnoo in order to help the protagonist, but he is closely watched by Kory-Kory.  After deserting the Dolly, the protagonist's companion Toby disappears while seeking medical aid for him, and the protagonist is detained in his house during a ceremonial feast where the natives engage in cannibalism.  Detailing Tom's captivity among the titular tribe, FTP, name this novel, the prequel to Omoo and the first of Herman Melville.
Typee
9

136691-)
In one work by this author, the protagonist is rescued by Billy Sanders after being accused of murdering a carpetbagger who refers to blacks as "niggeroes" and tells them that the Southerners are planning to strip them of their right to vote, Gilbert Hotchkiss.  In addition to that novel narrated by Cephas, another work by this author follows a character who wrestles with Salem after refusing to sell her last pie and helps Perdue fight the Gossett boys.  In addition to Gabriel Tolliver and The Chronicles of Aunt Minervy Ann, he wrote a story in which the title character breaks into jail only to find that Berrien Cozart is dead.  In another story, a turtle wins a race by placing his family members at various points on the track, outsmarting his competitor who cannot differentiate them, Brer Rabbit.  FTP, name this author of Balaam and His Master and Tales of Uncle Remus.
Joel Chandler Harris
9

136696-)
One character in this poem is described as having "cheeks like the dawn of day" and a "bosom white as the hawthorn buds / That ope in the month of May".  That character later asks another the meaning of the ringing of church bells and thinks of Christ at the Lake of Galilee.  Another character recalls that the moon had a golden ring the night before and draws a scornful laugh from the character he addresses.  The question "I see a gleaming light / O say, what may it be?" is not answered because the addressee is a frozen corpse, and the speaker of the question is stuck lashed to a mast as the titular ship travels towards the reef of Norman's woe.  FTP, name this poem detailing the destruction of the titular schooner by a hurricane, a work of Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
The Wreck of the Hesperus
9

136699-)
In this work, the protagonist's wife becomes willing to accept an apartment without a number due to her fascination with a black janitor.  One character in this work is rejected by Alma Leighton after expressing interest in the charity worker Margaret Vance and is dismissed by a girl who wishes to marry him only until receiving her father's approval, Christine.  Another character in this work is killed by a stray bullet during a streetcar strike while trying to defend a one-handed socialist whom his father had recently fired after fighting with him at a dinner party.  Before moving to Paris after the death of his son Conrad, Mr. Dryfoos sells the literary magazine Every Other Week to the protagonist and Mr. Fulkerson.  FTP, name this novel following Basil March, a work of William Dean Howells.
A Hazard of New Fortunes
9

136703-)
Characters created by this author include one who has his life story told in a series of flashbacks as he walks from his car to his old apartment and back and an underwater tunnel worker who survives a cave-in named McGlathery.  In one novel, Etta returns home after the suicide of her brother Stewart and stroke of her mother Benecia to find that her father believes he has betrayed his Quaker faith.  In addition to that novel about Solon Barnes, those aforementioned stories, The Old Neighborhood and St. Columba and the River, were contained in the collection Chains.  The protagonist is fired in the midst of his affair with Suzanne Dale in his novel about the artist Eugene Witla, and the protagonist of another novel receives a confession of love from Lester Kane on his deathbed.  This author's other works include a trilogy about a man who has an affair with Berenice Fleming and fails to bribe the city council into passing his bill establishing a transportation commission in Chicago, Frank Cowperwood.  Other novels by this author include one about a lover of Charles Drouet and George Hurstwood and one about a man who causes Roberta Alden to drown when he hits her with his camera.  FTP, name this American novelist of The Bulwark, Jennie Gerhardt, The Titan, and An American Tragedy.
Theodore Dreiser
9

136711-)
n one work of this author, Martha Foote works at the Senate Hotel, where the actress Geisha McCoy becomes hysterical out of fear for her son fighting overseas.  That story, The Three of Them, was collected along with Shore Leave and The Tough Guy in her collection Cheerful by Request.  The protagonist makes an effort to include her Indian daughter-in-law at social events in her novel about Sabra Cravat, and Luz is the domineering sister of Bick Benedict in her novel following Leslie Lynnton.  In addition to Cimarron and Giant, Roelf Pool disappoints Dirk when he hangs out with Dallas O'Mara and Selina in her novel about the Dejong family.  Writing about Captain Andy and Parthenia Hawkes in another work, FTP, name this member of the Algonquin Round Table and author of So Big and Show Boat.
Edna Ferber
9

136717-)
The narrator of this work is disappointed when his Chinese creeper is infested with worms, and after he and his horse eat apples which taste like ground, he decides that he is not in fairy land yet.  The narrator claims that the reason another character does not believe that the sun gilds her house is that she is inside it when it does.  The dog Tray is an imaginary pet seen in a shadow, and one character's mysterious brother is out all day and only comes home to sleep.  That character points to the narrator's house, claims that someone happy must live there, and expresses the wish to one day travel there, but the narrator does not reveal that it is his house and he visited hers after viewing it repeatedly from the titular structure.  FTP, name this short story which titles a collection containing The Lightning-Rod Man and The Bell-Tower, a work of Herman Melville.
The Piazza
9

136719-)
In one poem by this author, the narrator reaches out in the night to find her lover gone and cold as dew, and that poem begins with the lines "Love, if I weep it will not matter / And if you laugh I shall not care".  Another poem states "My soul is all but out of me" and tells the addressee "I cannot hold thee close enough".  In addition to The Dream and God's World, she wrote a poem which the narrator wakes to find his mother "Looking nineteen / And not a day older" and frozen dead and relates the creation of clothes for a king's son.  Another poem by this author states "Safe upon the rock the ugly houses stand / Come and see my shining palace built upon the sand".  FTP, name this poet of The Ballad of the Harp-Weaver and Renascence who wrote of a candle that burns at both ends in the opening poem of A Few Figs from Thistles.
Edna St. Vincent Millay
9

136729-)
One poem by this man concludes with the image of a flickering life being blown out like a candle while addressing a "power more near my life than life itself" which is "missed in the commonplace of miracle".  Another poem describes a figure whose "heart stood still / Like a frozen waterfall" before tossing a piece of gold to leper.  His other works include one in which Birdofredum Sawin loses an eye and an arm in war and has his letters turned into poetry by Hosea and one in which chickens led by Tityrus Griswold are marched past Phoebus Apollo.  FTP, name this American poet of The Cathedral, The Vision of Sir Launfal, The Biglow Papers, and A Fable for Critics.
James Russell Lowell
9

136740-)
In response to the assertion "You're a Christian!" one character in this work replies "I know which end is up and I wasn't born yesterday and I know where I'm going!"  One character in this work conceals a flask of whiskey in a hollowed out book and carries a briefcase containing pornographic pictures.  The protagonist's mother refuses to say that her daughter is a philosopher, and the protagonist annoys another character with her vague musings in response to his insistence that she say she loves him.  The protagonist's mother gives the titular characterization to Mrs. Freeman and her family.  FTP, name this short story in which Bible salesman Manley Pointer steals the wooden leg of Hulga Hopewell, a work of Flannery O'Connor.
Good Country People
9

136741-)
One character in this work is briefly involved with his employer's daughter Orchid, and that character is briefly engaged to two women at the same time before Madeline Fox angrily abandons him.  The protagonist is forced to resign from one post after ordering the demolition of the McCandless tenements, and he marries Joyce Lanyon after his first wife dies after smoking a half-used cigarette.  On that trip to St. Hubert, the protagonist's mentor Gustave Sondelius dies and the protagonist does not keep his promise to Max Gottlieb to keep a control group of patients without treatment.  FTP, name this novel whose protagonist meets his future wife Leora Tozer on an errand to the Zenith City Hospital, a work of Sinclair Lewis.
Arrowsmith
9

136744-)
When the narrator of this poem mentions that the moon is hanging low, he comments "O I think it is heavy with love, with love".  One stanza mentions a sinking aria, "strange tears down the cheeks coursing", and "the fierce old mother incessantly moaning".  Near the end of this poem, the narrator relates how the sea repeatedly whispered to him the "delicious word" death.  The narrator recalls being careful not to disturb the "solitary guest from Alabama", the he-bird guarding "four light-green eggs spotted with brown" after the she-bird disappeared one day and never returned.  The titular phrase is followed by lines referencing "the Ninth-month midnight" and "the mockingbird's throat, the musical shuttle".  FTP, name this poem from Leaves of Grass written by Walt Whitman.
Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking
9

136750-)
In one work of this author, the protagonist causes controversy for allowing a schoolboy to read a poem describing his homosexual feelings and is raped by a man she meets at a party thrown by Sheila Trask.  Along with that novel about Monica Jensen, this author wrote a story in which the crazed Allen Weinstein attends the Shakespeare classes of Sister Irene before drowning himself in Canada.  In addition to Solstice and In the Region of Ice, convicted murderer Jean-Pierre commits another murder after his release is secured by Leah in another novel by this author.  Describing how Arnold Friend gradually intimidates Connie into coming for ride with him in another story, FTP, name this American author of Bellefleur and Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?
Joyce Carol Oates
9

136757-)
The protagonist of this work is encouraged to read by Campbell Kitchen, the wife of an actress who employs her as a maid, Clere Sloane.  The protagonist rooms in the same boarding house as Jasmine Griffith and initially works as a maid for the white actress Arline Strange.  Studying at USC, the protagonist hopes to find a more racially accepting society after being indoctrinated in ideas of mulatto superiority by her grandmother Maria Lightfoot.  In Harlem, her prejudices are challenged by her abusive lover, the hustler Alva, and this novel begins at the high school graduation of the protagonist, Emma Lou Morgan.  Written by the author of Infants of the Spring and subtitled "A Novel of Negro Life", FTP, name this novel written by Wallace Thurman.
The Blacker the Berry
9

136763-)
This poem mentions a marble fountain which produces the perpetual sound of splashing water drops and states that "the sliding of the water / Seems the stroking of a dear / Hand upon her".  One character in this poem is described as a "heavy-booted lover" whose coat buttons bruise the body of his beloved as he embraces her, and this poem makes repeated mention of squills, daffodils, and the narrator's "stiff, brocaded gown".  The narrator states "In a month he would have been my husband" after relating how she received a message stating that Lord Hartwell had been killed in combat, and this poem concludes by asking "Christ! What are [the titular entities] for?"  Appearing in the collection Men, Women, and Ghosts, FTP, name this poem by Amy Lowell.
Patterns
9

136766-)
After having his clothes stolen, this character dons a purple bedsheet and climbs a tree in pursuit of the thief, only to find that the tree's trunk had been sawed in preparation for him.  In one scene, this character is given a zoot suit at a party which is interrupted by the intrusion of a Sherman Tank which is stopped when he wrestles the driver out of the vehicle.  This character gains heroic status by delivering a kilogram of hashish in an event known as the Potsdam Pickup, and he is brought to a tremendous orgasm during sexual intercourse with a girl who sings "On the Good Ship Lollipop".  In another scene, this character hallucinates escaping a gang of black men who try to shove cream up his asshole by crawling down a toilet, a plan which goes awry when the toilet is flushed while he is in the pipes.  FTP, name this character who dons a helmet and green cape to assume the guise of Raketemensch, or Rocketman.
Tyrone Slothrop
9

136768-)
One character in this work relates a story about an orgy taking place in a pool on a moonless night and invites another character to come to one because the girls will not care what he looks like.  The protagonist of this work is unnerved by his lover Renee's discussion of his penis, and he refuses to consult a doctor when his marriage with Helga does not produce any children.  The protagonist is reassigned after advocating the assassination of Ngo Dinh Diem, and later he is arrested for espionage after it is revealed that his lover is passing diplomatic secrets to the Chinese government and, more surprisingly, that she is a man.  FTP, name this play about the relationship between Gallimard and the opera singer Song Liling written by David Henry Hwang.
M. Butterfly
9

136779-)
At the age of twelve, the protagonist of this work farts beside his friend's coffin to show his indifference, and he also recalls an incident from childhood in which he and his cousin Gene killed a boy in a gang fight and were simply forgiven by his Aunt Caroline, who gave them rye bread.  The protagonist's father dies from withdrawal after giving up alcohol, and the protagonist befriends a man who renounces both of the men who are possibly his father, Roy Hamilton.  The protagonist's lover Valeska commits suicide after their brief affair while he works hiring and firing crazed messengers along with the clerks Kronski and Hymie at the Cosmodemonic Telegraph Company.  The protagonist declares his wish to become a hermaphrodite after relating his fantasies about the Dark Lady, Mara, a reworking from an earlier novel of the narrator's unseen wife Mona.  FTP, name this sequel to Tropic of Cancer written by Henry Miller.
Tropic of Capricorn
9

136782-)
Near the beginning of this work, McCrimmon warns that breakthroughs in gene engineering and international relations are unwanted after Grierson discusses the protagonist's latest development.  The protagonist founds Political Rectitude Committees to counter the work of Political Action Committees, takes over arms manufacturers to disband their activities, and is hired by Harvard following a study on refrigerator pricing.  The protagonist is investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission after he makes fortunes by use of his Index of Irrational Expectations, a forecasting model for unjustified optimism and pessimism.  Following Marjie and Montgomery Marvin, FTP, name this novel written by John Kenneth Galbraith.
A Tenured Professor
9

136789-)
In one novel written by this man, one character disguises himself as a servant to win a cakewalk, and that novel also sees the deaths of George McBane and Polly Ochiltree.  In addition to that novel in which Dr. Miller's hospital is burned down by a mob, he wrote a work in which the protagonist is rejected by her fiancÃ© when he discovers that she has black heritage.  Along with that novel about George Tryon and Rena Walden, he wrote a short story in which the former slave Uncle Julius McAdoo ruins the soil of his property and advises the narrator not to buy part of the plantation.  FTP, name this author of The Marrow of Tradition and The House Behind the Cedars who included The Goophered Grapevine in his collection The Conjure Woman.
Charles Chesnutt
9

136796-)
In one work by this author, the creative writing teacher Manny Gumbiner succeeds a woman who died shortly after leaving the job, Camille Turner Batterson.  That work begins by describing Constance Morgan's last day as secretary to a character whose South African wife Pamela pretends to be British, Dwight Robbins.  In addition to that novel set at Benton College, one poem by this man begins with the line "Far off, above the plain of summer dries / The great loops of hangars sway like hills" and depicts a mother visiting her son on an air base, while another poem begins "From my mother's sleep I fell into the State" and frankly concludes "When I died they washed me outÂ…with a hose".  FTP, name this American poet of Pictures from an Institution, 2nd Air Force, and The Death of the Ball-Turret Gunner.
Randall Jarrell
9

136799-)
One character in this play lies motionless on the ground, refusing to pick himself up since he did not knock himself down, and another character in this work is placed in a convent because her father does not like the prospect of marrying off six daughters.  Nicholas loses his desire for Alizon Eliot after his brother Humphrey no longer wants her, which works out because Alizon runs off and marries the Mayor of Cool Clary Hebble Tyson's clerk, Richard.  The title character, Jennet Jourdemayne, is accused of turning old Skipps into a dog and falls in love with a man who refuses to stop confessing murders out of his desire to be hanged, Thomas Mendip.  FTP, name this play by Christopher Fry.
The Lady's Not for Burning
9

136800-)
After becoming a preacher, the protagonist of this work is pelted with rocks as he baptizes himself and Ethelred Brantley, and he discusses Bible passages with a woman whom he kills in order to prove his strength, Margaret Whitehead.  The protagonist has a homosexual foray with Willis after he is apprenticed to a carpenter by Samuel after impressing him by stealing a book in order to teach himself to read, an ability which earns him a whipping from Thomas Moore.  After Will kills Joseph Travis, the title character is sentenced to hang by Jeremiah Cobb and is visited by Thomas Gray.  FTP, name this novel largely told through the memories of an imprisoned leader of a slave revolt, a work of William Styron.
The Confessions of Nat Turner
9

136802-)
One character in this work believes his home to be "the contempt center of the U.S.A.", and another character goes into a seizure when the protagonist declares he loves her.  The protagonist is unable to interview a man accused of raping and murdering a housewife, Spofford Mitchell, and when he writes a series of politically charged articles for Harper's, he draws the ire of his superior Alec Witt.  The protagonist gets help from his childhood friend Dewey Spangler in circumventing the colonel's limitations on hospital visits to his mother-in-law, and he is publicly denounced by his nephew Mason and cousin Max during controversy surrounding a trial of a black man accused of murdering a student of the Chicago university where the protagonist works.  FTP, Valeria's deathbed in Bucharest is attended by Minna and Albert Corde in what novel by Saul Bellow?
The Dean's December
9

136811-)
One character in this play sings a song featuring the lyrics "And so we have met again / The blood on this earth did not have time to dry".  Another character in this play repairs another's heating pad while another character cooks potato pancakes for breakfast.  One character demands ten thousand dollars in cash after discovering twenty-three thousand dollars in another's briefcase and criminally linking him to Gotter.  Count Teck de Brancovis is murdered for threatening to inform on Kurt Muller to the Nazis, and the play ends with Kurt leaving for Germany from his mother-in-law Fanny Farrelly's household.  FTP, name this play by Lillian Hellman.
Watch on the Rhine
9

136815-)
This poem uses the image of pink "with varnished flowers of paradise", and the narrator wishes of his judgment, conscience, memory, words, and actions "that their shine may fill / My ways with glory".  The ordinances of this poem's addressee are compared to "fulling mills", and this poem states that the Holy Spirit will "wind quills".  The narrator of this poem uses the analogy of his affections as "swift flyers" and his soul as a "holy spool", and this poem begins with the line "Make me, O Lord, thy spinning wheel complete".  Written by the author of Preparatory Meditations and God's Determinations, FTP, name this brief poem by American metaphysical poet Edward Taylor.
Huswifery
9

136829-)
One character in this work issues a lawsuit over his wife's inability to fulfill her "marital responsibilities" after a plane crash, and that character is later revealed to have been injured in the war when one of his own companions threw a fragmentation grenade under his bed.  Another character in this work is ridiculed for the apparent loss of his thumbs because compensation payments are only made for the loss of whole hands.  The protagonist is outraged when she discovers that the flowers sent to her friend in the hospital were arranged as a cross, and the protagonist's brother is killed in a plane crash over South Africa along with Senator Teakell.  Controversy arises from a typhus outbreak when people drink the bottled water from the Pee Dee River, where Wayne Fickert was drowned while being baptized by Reverend Ude.  After being fatally struck on the head, the protagonist is unable to answer a phone call from McCandless.  FTP, name this third novel by William Gaddis.
Carpenter's Gothic
9

136833-)
One character in this work is not recognized as the legitimate son of his father because he is a drunkard and is killed by his mother so that he cannot have a tribal mark removed from his skin.  In this work, the Spanish agent Dick Chorley appears and begins arming and inciting rebellion among the natives, who include the aforementioned Occonestoga and Matiwan.  In one scene, the dog Dugdale and the slave Hector save Gabriel Harrison after he tries to rescue the parson's daughter Bess Matthews, whom he later marries.  A battle at the Salkehatchie River sees the final death of Sanutee and the final defeat of the titular tribe.  Subtitled "A Romance of Carolina", FTP, name this novel by William Gilmore Simms.
The Yemassee
9

136835-)
This poem references the hot summer when tempests kill the earth's peace and "winds shriek through the clouds mad, opposing".  Describing "standards gold, vair, purple, opposing", this poem's narrator declares "Better one hour's stour than a year's peace" and "there's no wine like the blood's crimson".  Urging his minstrel Papiols to play music, the narrator begins by complaining of how the South stinks and cries "There's no sound like to swords swords opposingsÂ…May God damn forever all who cry 'Peace!'".  Named for the castle of Bertrans de Born, FTP, name this poem by Ezra Pound.
Sestina: Altaforte
9

137323-)
A character created by this author reminisces about how her husband's mistress outrageously showed up to her husband's funeral dressed in white. In a novel by this author, the protagonist traces his heritage to a homeless woman named Wild, while his wife gains the nickname "Violent" for stabbing a corpse at a funeral. A couple created by her chooses names for their daughters by (*) randomly selecting passages from the Bible. She wrote about the cosmetics saleswoman Dorcas, who embarks on an ill-fated affair with Joe Trace. The theme of human flight permeates a novel by this writer, which begins with Robert Smith jumping from the roof of Mercy Hospital and ends with Guitar Bains being leapt towards by Milkman Dead. For 10 points, name this author of Jazz and Song of Solomon.
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford]
8

137337-)
A woman marrying into this family is angry at her aunt for going door to door in a futile effort to recruit the townspeople to attend the wedding. A man in this family answers "To die, yes. Yes, to die" when asked why he has spent the last four years sedentary in his room. Its patriarch is murdered by the scythe-wielding grandfather of (*) Milly after he kicked Milly off his property because she gave birth to a girl and not a boy. That patriarch gains notoriety for staging brutal fights between his slaves. It includes a man who murders his mixed-race half-brother to prevent him from marrying his sister Judith, and a man who fathered Charles Bon before moving to Mississippi and constructing a plantation called his "Hundred." For 10 points, name this family chronicled in Absalom, Absalom!
Sutpen Family [accept Coldfield Family during the first sentence]
8

137338-)
A poem set in this type of location describes a group of people who were "Taught in the school of patience to endure / The life of anguish" and who walked with "Pride and humiliation" hand in hand though they were trampled and beaten like the sand. A different poem about this type of location imagines a "lofty rock" half wasted by rains and an "ancient elm" in whose shade "The children of the forest played." The central figure of that poem is accompanied by imaged birds, a painted bowl, and a (*) bow and arrow, and that poem ends by stating that "Reason's self shall bow the knee / To shadows and delusions" here. A poem about this type of location claims that some "nations never rise again." For 10 points, name this type of subject of a Longfellow poem in Newport and a Freneau poem about one used by Indians.
cemetery [or equivalents such as graveyard; or "The Jewish Cemetery at Newport"; or "The Indian Burying Ground"]
8

137350-)
In a story by this author, an earthquake that strikes on the night of February 28th causes many poets and artists to have a similar, recurring dream. A book about this man, subtitled "Against the World, Against Life," was written by Michel Houellebecq. He wrote a story whose narrator is shocked to discover a phony face and hands placed on a cloak the day after his friend showed him a (*) brain in a cylinder and laid out the merits of taking an extraterrestrial journey. In a story by this man, Francis Thurston links a sculptor's descriptions of Cyclopean masonry to a Louisiana cult, leading him to a manuscript where he reads about the corpse-city of R'lyeh. For 10 points, name this author of "The Whisperer in Darkness" who wrote about an octopus-like monster in "The Call of Cthulhu."
H.P. Lovecraft [or Howard Phillips Lovecraft]
8

137357-)
A character created by this author screams "YOU JUST THREW THE FUCKING COFFEE AGAINST THE WALL!" during an argument with his sister. In a play by this writer, two characters are introduced as the halves of a camel, and a bladder-problem stricken man is given a lecture on the divine perfection of dead bodies. He wrote a play within a play set after the end of the world in which Nina plays a molecule. This author satirized the (*) Catholic Church in a play in which a nun shoots two of her former students, and he wrote a play which he described as "[b]lending" together multiple elements of Chekhov. For 10 points, name this contemporary American playwright of Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All For You and Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike.
Christopher Durang
8

137371-)
A junk shop worker in this book naively believes that he can fool his boss by wearing purple eye shadow only on his left eye. Characters in this book include a pianist nicknamed "The Lady of 6,000 Songs" and a man nicknamed "the Inventor" who claims to possess a vial of poison strong enough to kill off an entire city. The original cover of this book featured a (*) photograph of the statue Bird Girl. Its narrator describes meeting an estrogen-consuming drag queen named Lady Chablis. It was made into a 1997 Clint Eastwood movie starring Kevin Spacey as Jim Williams, who is acquitted of killing a male prostitute after a series of four trials in the city of Savannah. For 10 points, name this true crime account written by John Berendt.
Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil
8

137373-)
The speaker of a poem about this character urges the listener to bait him "with the balsam" and to seek him "with the knife." The speaker of a different poem claims to be too near to this character to seek him. The lines "Full royal is his retinue, / Full purple is his state" describe this character, who is commanded to "Let down the bars" and compared to an (*) insect menacing a tree in two other poems. The speaker cannot read a book because her tears blotch the pages in a poem in which this character "sets a thing significant." This character and the speaker undergo a journey in which they pass a house that seems to be "A swelling of the mound," a group of playing children, and the setting sun. For 10 points, name this personification who is held in a carriage with Emily Dickinson after kindly stopping for her
Death
8

137375-)
This character's older brother furiously asks him, "Every time I get in trouble, I have to tell you what a naked girl looks like" in a play which ends with this character saying, "I have seen the Golden Palace of the Himalayas. Puberty is over. Onwards and upwards!" He spends much of the action of a play running to Greenblatt's to get groceries. This character pretends to be a (*) pitcher for the New York Yankees during the World Series at the start of his first onstage appearance. In his final stage appearance, this character and his brother Stanley get jobs as television scriptwriters in the midst of revelations that his father Jack is cheating on his mother Kate. For 10 points, name this character, the namesake of a "Trilogy" of plays which includes Broadway Bound and Brighton Beach Memoirs, created by Neil Simon.
Eugene Jerome [or Eugene Morris Jerome; prompt on "Jerome"]
8

137391-)
A junk shop worker in this book naively believes that he can fool his boss by wearing purple eye shadow only on his left eye. Characters in this book include a pianist nicknamed "The Lady of 6,000 Songs" and a man nicknamed "the Inventor" who claims to possess a vial of poison strong enough to kill off an entire city. The original cover of this book featured a (*) photograph of the statue Bird Girl. Its narrator describes meeting an estrogen-consuming drag queen named Lady Chablis. It was made into a 1997 Clint Eastwood movie starring Kevin Spacey as Jim Williams, who is acquitted of killing a male prostitute after a series of four trials in the city of Savannah. For 10 points, name this true crime account written by John Berendt.
Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil
8

137393-)
The speaker of a poem about this character urges the listener to bait him "with the balsam" and to seek him "with the knife." The speaker of a different poem claims to be too near to this character to seek him. The lines "Full royal is his retinue, / Full purple is his state" describe this character, who is commanded to "Let down the bars" and compared to an (*) insect menacing a tree in two other poems. The speaker cannot read a book because her tears blotch the pages in a poem in which this character "sets a thing significant." This character and the speaker undergo a journey in which they pass a house that seems to be "A swelling of the mound," a group of playing children, and the setting sun. For 10 points, name this personification who is held in a carriage with Emily Dickinson after kindly stopping for her
Death
8

137395-)
This character's older brother furiously asks him, "Every time I get in trouble, I have to tell you what a naked girl looks like" in a play which ends with this character saying, "I have seen the Golden Palace of the Himalayas. Puberty is over. Onwards and upwards!" He spends much of the action of a play running to Greenblatt's to get groceries. This character pretends to be a (*) pitcher for the New York Yankees during the World Series at the start of his first onstage appearance. In his final stage appearance, this character and his brother Stanley get jobs as television scriptwriters in the midst of revelations that his father Jack is cheating on his mother Kate. For 10 points, name this character, the namesake of a "Trilogy" of plays which includes Broadway Bound and Brighton Beach Memoirs, created by Neil Simon.
Eugene Jerome [or Eugene Morris Jerome; prompt on "Jerome"]
8

137410-)
A character in this novel is able to win the favor of his neighbor by giving him a hypnotic gaze in a train car that convinces the neighbor to carry his luggage off the train at Oxford. In this novel, a woman tries to prevent the narrator's engagement to a professor by blocking the announcement in the Times. A central character in this book elopes to Sicily with a man who is nicknamed the "Lecherous Lecturer" because of his lewd conversations with young girls. After "Boy" Dougdale leaves England with his (*) niece, the favor of the Montdores in this novel redirects to the openly homosexual Cedric Hampton. It is the second novel narrated by Fanny Logan, and it runs parallel to its author's earlier book The Pursuit of Love. For 10 points, name this novel by Nancy Mitford in which Polly hopes that sexuality will be repressed in England's wintry weather.
Love in a Cold Climate
8

137414-)
A poem about this war states "Night is the beginning and the end" before comparing "mute speculation" to a jaguar that attacks its own reflection in a pool. That poem about this war claims "Autumn is desolationÂ… Of a thousand acres where these memories grow." A poem whose title references this war describes "yellow dinosaur steamshovels" constructing a building to replace a ruined structure "in a (*) Sahara of snow." The lines "Row after row with strict impunity / The headstones yield their names to the elements" begin a poem about it. "A savage servility / slides by on grease" at the end of a poem inspired by an Augustus Saint-Gaudens monument to this war in Boston. Odes for its dead were written by Allen Tate and Robert Lowell. For 10 points, name this war referenced by the line "Shiloh, Antietam, Malvern Hill, Bull Run."
American Civil War
8

137418-)
A box in this novel can be opened by manipulating fourteen jade buttons concealed in the image of a peacock, and a boy is disappointed to find only a scrap of paper while combing through the silt that it contains. A character in this novel uses a connection to the First Lady to expedite the sailing of the ship The Ark of Miriam. A fictional organization in this book, the Iron Chain, is led by Attila Haxoff. It contains a character who is disappointed with his (*) naval posting to Antarctica, and who had earlier escaped from Nazi-occupied Prague in a chest alongside a Golem. The main characters of this novel create a sex icon named Luna Moth based on Rosa Sacks, and they gain fame with a series of comic books about The Escapist. For 10 points, name this novel by Michael Chabon.
The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay
8

137421-)
While undergoing hypnosis, the protagonist of this novel imagines himself searching for a hostile mermaid. This novel's protagonist dates a red-haired woman whom he envisions having black hair at a funeral. A character in this novel dies from running into a wall because he is treated at a maternity ward to save money. Its main character is disgusted by his lover after discovering that she is a grandmother, instead shifting his infatuation to (*) Memo Paris. In its first section, the protagonist is shot with a silver bullet by Harriet Byrd. This novel's protagonist calls his most prized possession "Wonderboy," and leads the New York Knights to a fantastic win streak before striking out and failing to capture a pennant. For 10 points, name this book about baseball player Roy Hobbs, the first novel by Bernard Malamud.
The Natural
8

137425-)
This principle was formulated by its creator after his collected manuscripts of three years were stolen from his wife at a train station. This idea's creator claimed that it must only be applied to things that one knows, and never to things that one does not know, in an interview with George Plimpton for the Paris Review. An apocryphal story tells of how its creator used it to win a ten dollar bet by (*) composing a story on a napkin, "Baby shoes, for sale, never worn." An instance of this idea is that a conversation about an abortion at a train station does not use the phrases "he said" or "she said." It was influenced by its creator's journalistic career with the Toronto Star, and it was first outlined in Death in the Afternoon. For 10 points, name this sparse writing technique of Ernest Hemingway sometimes named after an object that has seven-eighths of its mass below water.
Hemingway's Iceberg Theory [or Hemingway's Theory of Omission; prompt on descriptive answers involving "Hemingway"]
8

137426-)
This collection contains a poem which qualifies its title declaration with statements like "if you don't mind a touch of hell" and "if you don't mind some people dying." It includes a poem about a "real live democratic" creature which "has a real tale to tellÂ… / and a real tail to tell it with." This collection contains the poem "Dog" and a poem that repeats the lines "The world is a beautiful place / to be born into." The speaker of its first poem observes figures writhing "upon the page / in a veritable rage / of adversity" that "attained the title of / (*) "suffering humanity." A poem in this collection begins with exhortations of "Let's go / Come on / Let's go" and contains repeated interjections of "Junk for sale!" For 10 points, name this collection which contains the poems "In Goya's Greatest Scenes We Seem to SeeÂ…" and "Junkman's Obbligato," written by Lawrence Ferlinghetti.
A Coney Island of the Mind
8

137433-)
This character relates a story about the real-life doctor John Abernethy, who, when asked for a medical opinion, told a friend to take advice instead of medication. He claims that an example of narrow thinking is to claim all poets are fools, using as an example a boy who understood people so well that he won all of his school's marbles playing odds and ends. This character places an ad in a newspaper that is answered by a (*) sailor who has lost an exotic pet from Borneo. This man retrieves a document that was stolen by the blackmailer Minister D; by observing witnesses who claim that a murderer was speaking different languages, he deduces that the culprit of a double homicide was an Orangutan. For 10 points, name this crime solver who appears in the Edgar Allen Poe stories "The Purloined Letter" and "The Murders in the Rue Morgue."
C. Auguste Dupin [accept either underlined name]
8

137443-)
This character says it's a shame that, though she has been to England, France, and Mexico, she has no idea how people ten blocks from her live. This character is first seen in a newsreel, where she has been recalled from Florida due to her scandalous sexual conduct. An earring belonging to this woman is discovered by a group of reporters in a room filled with acrid smoke. She is scolded for drinking whiskey by her (*) blind mother after a night out in which she has sex with her boyfriend in the back seat of a car. The narrator of the novel in which she appears decapitates her body to fit it into a furnace, and earlier he accidentally asphyxiated her to death by covering her mouth with a pillow so that he would not be discovered in her room. For 10 points, name this woman killed by Bigger Thomas in Native Son.
Mary Dalton [accept either name]
8

137451-)
Beverly Maeder drew a parallel between this poem's ninth stanza and Ralph Waldo Emerson's essay "Circles," arguing that its author's use of circular imagery suggests liminality. This poem's speaker claims that "I know noble accents / And lucid, inescapable rhythms" and wonders whether to prefer the beauty of inflections or the beauty of innuendoes. A character introduced late in this poem rides over (*) Connecticut in a glass coach and mistakes a shadow for some animals. Its final stanza begins with the statement "It was evening all afternoon." It opens by describing how, "Among twenty snowy mountains," the only thing moving was the eye of one of the title animals. For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poem that presents a number of views of an avian.
"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird"
8

137463-)
A simile in this poem describes "girls on hands and knees that throw their hair / Before them over their heads to dry in the sun." In a book titled "How to Write About" its author, Harold Bloom notes how this poem's use of blank verse allows it to be written in iambic pentameter but sound like normal spoken English if read aloud. Its speaker sees such "heaps of broken glass" that he thinks "the inner dome of heaven had fallen." A turn comes in the middle of this poem when (*) Truth breaks in with a matter-of-fact reminder about an ice storm. It praises solitary play in its description of a boy who lives too far from town to play baseball, and who instead bends branches by swinging amongst the title trees. For 10 points, name this poem by Robert Frost.
"Birches"
8

137472-)
An essay by this author describes a dispute over who first had the idea to install a series of ill-fated themed gumball machines in California. That essay by this man includes a list of jargon that defines an outsider as a "Mook." An essay by this writer dubs a hotel manager with a Greek name "Mr. Dermatitis" and repeatedly references a second-person essay by Frank Conroy that appears on a brochure. He wrote an essay dedicated to the thirty or more men who (*) cut off their own testicles in the past two years in which he recounts walking to a hotel room with Max Hardcore. Two of his essays recount his travels to Las Vegas for the Adult Video News Awards and a week-long cruise he took in the Caribbean. For 10 points, name this author of "Big Red Son" and "A Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again."
David Foster Wallace
8

137476-)
In a novel by an author with this surname, a woman relates how her husband had an affair with her sister Ophelia, who then poisoned herself, mirroring how the protagonist shoots himself while reading The Sorrows of Young Werther. A character created by a writer with this surname dies in a temple when his clothing spontaneously combusts. The main revelation of a book by a man with this last name is that (*) Thomas Harrington is about to marry his half-sister. It is shared by the author who wrote about Catharine Pleyel's murder by a man who hears voices that may have come from a ventriloquist. Bizarrely, two men with this last name wrote candidates for the "First American Novel;" those books are The Power of Sympathy and Wieland. For 10 points, give this surname of authors William Hill and Charles Brockden.
Brown [or William Hill Brown; or Charles Brockden Brown
8

137484-)
In a novel, a character tells a scary story about an Oriental magician who gives this type of object to a woman so that she can destroy the person who is both her closest friend and her mortal enemy. This type of object is central to the conjuring act of Professor Westervelt. A character who always travels with this type of object spits out his wine at a wedding upon realizing the horror of the earth. (*) Priscilla's alter ego is a lady named for this type of object in the novel The Blithedale Romance. In a short story, a man who first appears with this type of object delivers a speech about secret sins. Because he is always seen with this type of object, Elizabeth decides not to marry her fiancÃ©, Mr. Hooper. For 10 points, name this type of object, a black one of which is worn by a minister in a Nathaniel Hawthorne short story.
veil [accept "The Silvery Veil" or the Veiled Lady until "wine" is read]
8

137499-)
A boy created by this author tries to act like Raskolnikov to seduce his English teacher. He wrote a scene in which a group of men at a bar claim that upstart female writers such as "Willa Catheter" need to be sexually assaulted. The narrator of a novel by this author meets an Areopagite who is obsessed with Saint Puce, a flea that lived in Jesus's armpit. The title character of a novel by this man climbs into the (*) Trojan Horse through its anus. He created a man who sleeps with the wife of a cripple who then shoots him down a flight of stairs in revenge. A novel by this author is about a newspaper columnist whose views on religion are mocked by his boss, Shrike. For 10 points, name this author whose first two novels are The Dream Life of Balso Snell and Miss Lonelyhearts.
Nathanael West
8

137502-)
In a story by this author, the section heading "One Does Not Always Eat What Is On the Table" refers to a corpse. The title character of a story by this author writes an incomplete poem ending "At last the viewlessÂ…" in his own blood after being attacked by the zombified spirit of his mother, who is named Catherine Larue. He wrote a story in which an impromptu inquest rules the death of Hugh Morgan to be the result of a mountain lion attack. This man's horror fiction includes "The (*) Death of Halpin Frayser" and "The Damned Thing." A character created by this writer is disturbed by the clanging sound of his own watch, and imagines swimming to the bank of a river and walking home to his plantation while being hanged for treason. For 10 points, name this author of "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge."
Ambrose Bierce
8

137507-)
In a sketch parodying this novel, theme music plays after each title drop, prompting the response "that's real pretty but it don't answer my question," and its protagonist says "I saw it in the window and just couldn't resist" about a prop designed by Bob Mackie. This novel takes its title from a poem by Ernest Dowson, and that poem's character of Cynara narrates a parody of it by (*) Alice Randall. Grandpa Abe gives a copy of this book to the star of its film adaptation in a Simpsons flashback. In a Carol Burnett Show sketch, the protagonist of this novel descends a staircase in a homemade dress that still has a curtain rod in it, and she cuts off its most famous line by slamming the door on Harvey Korman's spoof of Clark Gable in the middle of the line "frankly my dear, I don't gi-" For 10 points, name this novel by Margaret Mitchell.
Gone With the Wind [prompt on the sketch's title, "Went With the Wind," with "that's real pretty but it don't answer my question"]
8

137517-)
In this type of location, a woman permanently loses her hair after she saves her son from a fire started by her boyfriend. A character dies in this type of location when he refuses to eat a goose heart and then chokes on it. A novel set in this type of location follows a man who witnesses the death of his brother Rocky in World War Two; in that book, (*) Tayo turns to tradition and spirituality to recover from his PTSD. In a short story set in one, Adrian and Victor discuss how basketball prodigies always seem to burn out. In that story, the only traffic light in this type of location in Spokane doesn't flash red anymore. For 10 points, name these locations whose "blues" title Sherman Alexie's first novel and which provide the setting of Louise Erdrich's Love Medicine and Leslie Silko's Ceremony.
Native American Reservations [prompt on "house" during the first sentence]
8

137523-)
In a play by this author, a painter strangely claims that the government measures peoples' noses to find out whether they can move stones. In another play by this writer, a TV crew plans to film the crucifixion of an unseen prisoner in a Latin American country. He wrote a play in which a businessman gives a white pass to the psychiatrist Leduc, allowing him to escape the (*) Nazi regime in France. A character created by this man describes life as a "casting off," though her husband insists that "some people achieve something." This author of Resurrection Blues and Incident at Vichy depicted a character whose football star son dropped out of school after seeing him with a mistress in a Boston hotel room. For 10 points, name this playwright who created Biff and Willy Loman in Death of a Salesman.
Arthur Miller
8

137525-)
The central characters of this novel encounter a book called Memories that contains illustrations of the seven deadly sins signed with the artist's blood. This book's protagonist repeatedly sings the refrain "journeys end in lovers meeting" after stealing her sister's car. A character in this novel sends out twelve letters of invitation, choosing a woman who scored nineteen out of twenty on a (*) Zener Card test and a woman who remembers stones being thrown at her house as a child. A love triangle involving the Crain sisters in this book mirrors a triangle involving Luke Sanderson. It ends with Eleanor Vance crashing a car into a tree, and it begins with Dr. John Montague investigating supernatural occurrences at the title abode. For 10 points, name this horror novel by Shirley Jackson.
The Haunting of Hill House
8

137528-)
A passage by this author notes that mannequins' hair color is changed from blond to black in times of mourning. This writer declared that she was bored by semicolons and memories in a "Pastoral" section of a poem in which shepherds block streets and ring the bells of St. Patrick's Cathedral. She used the terms Wishy, Washy, and Wishy-Washy to describe the political options of her (*) homeland in a novel that adapts Life is a Dream to include Sigismundo being held in the dungeon of the Statue of Liberty. This author of the poetic trilogy "Empire of Dreams" wrote a novel that opens with the "Death of a Businessman" in the 9/11 attacks and the first complete novel composed in Spanglish. For 10 points, name this Puerto Rican author of United States of Banana and Yo-Yo Boing!
Giannina Braschi
8

137531-)
A story set in this state sensually describes a woman who has lips red as pomegranate seeds and the birthright of a creamy lily. In a story set in this state, two characters discuss that they were in Assumption together a year earlier, and a woman claims that something terrible has happened at her home to stop her love interest from flirting with another girl at a dance. It is the setting of a story in which (*) Bobinot buys a can of shrimp for his wife Calixta while she has an affair during a thunderstorm. In this state, a woman drowns herself at Grand Isle after being abandoned by Robert Lebrun. Edna Pontellier lives here in the novel The Awakening. For 10 points, name this setting of most of Kate Chopin's work, including "The Storm" and "At the Cadian Ball."
Louisiana
8

137537-)
A speaking circuit by this person coincided with the arrest of Anthony Burns in Boston, galvanizing protests for Burns's release. This person asked how over half a million British people could have signed an anti-slavery petition, yet the country still was sympathetic to the cause of the Confederacy, in an open letter simply titled "The Reply." Opposition to the ideology of this person vaulted the careers of Caroline Lee Hentz and William Gilmore (*) Simms. Upon meeting Lincoln, the president said "So this is the little" person "who made this big war." This person's father moved to Cincinnati to become the president of Lane Theological Seminary, where she met her future husband, Calvin. For 10 points, name this woman who became a celebrity after the publication of an anti-slavery novel before the Civil War.
Harriet Beecher Stowe
8

137539-)
The protagonist of a story by this author spends her free time listlessly watching people in Bridgepoint, which she dubs "wandering," and dies of TB after fighting with her friend Rose. Three books about this writer were written by Ulla Dydo. She wrote a book in which a typist copies a manuscript one letter at a time because she wasn't told to read the document. In that book by this author, the main characters aid wounded soldiers in a truck they call (*) "Auntie." Her story "Melanctha" appears in her collection Three Lives. A protagonist created by this writer stays at Alfred Whitehead's house during World War One and abandons a medical degree to move to Paris, where she meets Matisse and Picasso. For 10 points, name this author of The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas.
Gertrude Stein
8

137551-)
This author wrote an essay that quotes Faulkner's three recommendations of "Anna Karenina, Anna Karenina, and Anna Karenina" in arguing for the importance of that novel's depiction of society. The subject of an essay by this writer has a dream of saying "Amo, ergo sum" while a black man emerges from the piano he is playing and later has his wife Felicia greet their dinner guests. Jonathan (*) Franzen's "Perchance to Dream" was written as a response to this man's essay in which he laments the decline of realism in American literature, "Stalking the Billion-Footed Beast." A party hosted by Leonard Bernstein serves as the setting of his essay "Radical Chic." For 10 points, name this author who developed the style of New Journalism and who chronicled the lives of Project Mercury astronauts in The Right Stuff.
Tom Wolfe
8

137557-)
The main character of this play compares the beauty of his lover to the beauty of French words. A boarder in this play describes his sexual desire using the word "yen." It ends with the family patriarch taking out a 5,000 dollar life insurance policy and jumping off their apartment building. A tense scene in this drama occurs when a woman destroys her father's Caruso record. In this play, (*) Moe Axelrod runs away to Cuba with Hennie, and Ralph is left able to forge a future with Blanche Hirsch. It takes its title from a phrase addressed to "ye that dwell in dust" from the Book of Isaiah. This drama tells the story of the Jewish Berger family. For 10 points, name this play set in the Depression-era Bronx by Clifford Odets.
Awake and Sing
8

137566-)
In this novel, people select candidates in an election by placing a stone in front of a knife, a bottle, a set of matches, or a cooking pot. A woman in this novel obtains the Equatorial Hotel after the conclusion of her third marriage, and earlier had broken her prized mirror during a river crossing to avoid a plague of flesh-eating ants. Its final chapter is narrated by a girl who was killed by a (*) green mamba snake and explains the continuity of life with the word "muntu." It contains a passage criticizing the hypocrisy behind Mobutu's staging of the Rumble in the Jungle. In this book, Leah marries the teacher Anatole, while her father Nathan moves the Price family to a mission in the Congo. For 10 points, name this novel by Barbara Kingsolver whose title references a type of tree and the Christian holy book
The Poisonwood Bible
8

137577-)
T.S. Eliot's cousin, Charles Eliot, held a position of leadership at this location for forty years. The sermon "The Personality of the Deity" was delivered at this location by Henry Ware in response to a speech given here that attacked historical Christianity as over-emphasizing the ritual and personal aspects of Jesus. While in a position of leadership at this location, Edward (*) Everett was the target of parties where he was burned in effigy. "Truth for Christ and the Church" was once the motto of this location, which was where Ralph Waldo Emerson gave the "Divinity School Address." Increase Mather was a president of this location, which was founded in 1636 to train clergy for the Massachusetts Bay Colony. For 10 points, name this Ivy League university found in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Harvard University [prompt on "Cambridge, Massachusetts" before mentioned; do not accept or prompt on "Cambridge University"; accept Harvard Chapel; prompt on the "Divinity School"]
8

137578-)
The main character of a play set in this city is unimpressed by a band that plays a silent song called "i," and feels that it would be far more interesting if she had wasted 33 years than 33 days. A play set in this city ends with a matriarch saying that she firmly believes things are about to get better as her Korean War veteran son prepares to kill himself. It is the setting of (*) David Auburn's Proof and of Bruce Norris's Clybourne Park. A discussion about female body parts on a beach is the final scene of a David Mamet play titled after Sexual Perversity in this city. In a play set here, Beneatha is courted by a doctor who plans to move to Nigeria, Walter fails in his scheme to open a liquor store, and Mama Lena controversially moves to a white neighborhood. For 10 points, name this setting of A Raisin in the Sun.
Chicago
8

137581-)
A character plans this type of event to be the centerpiece of the Hundredth Night of Hundredth Nights, and uses it to foil Katrina, who was trying to stab him with a knife in revenge for her son's death. To end this type of event, a man demands to receive one percent of the revenue that he generates in his job. The title character causes this type of event before disappearing in a flash of light in the novel (*) The Mysterious Stranger. In a different book, the main character is appointed chief minister because he supposedly caused this type of event. Despite confusion over the date being the Twenty-First, this type of event is predicted by Hank Morgan, preventing Merlin from burning him at the stake. For 10 points, name this type of event during which the subjects of King Arthur hope that the sun will return.
solar eclipse
8

137583-)
Imagery in a poem by this author includes "the domesticity of these windows" and "the green-leaved confectionery" before concluding that "The snow has no voice." This writer addressed a subject with the line "You are pithy and historical as the Roman Forum." This poet claimed that "Perfection is terrible" because it cannot have children in a poem that calls the title city a (*) morgue between Paris and Rome. The title poem of a collection by this author describes "the cauldron of morning" and "Stasis in darkness." This author of "The Munich Mannequins" said "I shall never get you put together entirely" in her poem "The Colossus." For 10 points, name this woman who was married to Ted Hughes and who wrote the collection Ariel.
Sylvia Plath
8

137586-)
The narrator of a novel set in this state recounts how her sister once wrote "PETE DID THIS" on her own cast after her husband broke her arm. A minister who lives in this state narrates the death of his wife in childbirth and that of his daughter soon afterwards, an experience that allows him to reconcile with Jack Boughton. John Ames lives in this state, where the inheritance of a farm by the (*) Cook family's three daughters begins an extended allegory to King Lear. It is the setting of Marilynne Robinson's novel Gilead and of Jane Smiley's novel A Thousand Acres. Robert Kincaid travels to this state to do a photoshoot about its Covered Bridges of Madison County. For 10 points, name this midwestern state where a university hosts a creative writing master's program called its Writers' Workshop.
Iowa
8

137754-)
Description acceptable. An author searches for this person by "[scudding] through the woods and fern with hark'ning ear" in one poem. That poem is often paired with one in which the poet asks "Phoebus make haste, the day's too long, be gone" to deliver a message to this person. The speaker declares, "Docile I watched. My wreckt chest hurts when [this man] pales" in a poem that urges this man to "listen while you read a song." The author asks "how stayest you there whilst I at Ipswitch lye?" in a poem addressed to "[this man] (*) Absent Upon Publick Employment." The speaker asks, "moved you not restless, waiting for him?" in a John Berryman "Homage" to this man's wife. This man's wife tells him to "compare with me ye women if you can" after noting "if ever two were one, then surely we" in one of her poems. For 10 points, name this man described in a poem from The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up In America as "Dear And Loving."
Simon Bradstreet [accept "Anne Bradstreet's husband" or "To My Dear And Loving Husband"; prompt on Bradstreet]
8

137782-)
In this novel, one character is offered beer multiple times, but insists on drinking orange soda. Another character in this novel recounts Phebe's accidental discovery of a wedding ring, confirming Annabelle Trice's complicity in her husband's suicide. A spirit medium named Littlepaugh provides evidence that one character had accepted a bribe for the benefit of a power company, information that is gathered by this novel's narrator because that character supports MacMurfree. That man, not the (*) "Scholarly Attorney," turns out to be the father of this novel's narrator. This novel's narrator counts his unfinished historical study of his ancestor Cass Mastern as part of a "Great Sleep," and picks up an old man out west leading to his theory of the "Great Twitch." After learning of his sister Anne's affair, Adam Stanton assassinates the governor. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Jack Burden which details the political rise and fall of Willie Stark, written by Robert Penn Warren.
All the King's Men
8

137795-)
A poem depicting one of these creatures "at night" ends by noting "Of immortality / his strategy / was physiognomy." One of these creatures sits "upon an arc of white" in that Emily Dickinson poem. The speaker of another poem parallels his soul, "surrounded, detached, in measureless oceans of space," with one of these creatures. The question "what brought the kindred" one of them "to that height?" appears in a poem that describes a "snow-drop" example of them as one of the "characters of death and blight" atop a "white (*) heal-all." Another of them is depicted atop a "little promontory", launching forth "filament, filament, filament out of itself." Robert Frost's "Design" begins with an encounter involving, for 10 points, what kind of creature, a "noiseless patient" example of which was described by Walt Whitman?
spiders [prompt on "arachnids"]
8

137825-)
A line in which this character criticizes Jews for sending down the price of real estate was removed in subsequent editions. This character wishes he could speak up and say a poor man "didn't envy any one his good luck" after a character claims he would break into a rich man's house and sleep on his piano if he were poor. The novel in which this character appears opens with him being interviewed for the series "Solid Men of Boston" by (*) Bartley Hubbard. This character's plain daughter eventually marries the wealthy Tom Corey. This character refuses to cheat English investors by selling them mills on land that has been devalued by railroads in a scheme proposed by Milton Rogers. For 10 points, name this businessman in the paint industry whose "Rise" titles a novel by William Dean Howells.
Silas Lapham [accept The Rise of Silas Lapham; prompt on Lapham]
8

137846-)
A character in this play waves to and then makes lewd gestures at women in the audience after failing to convince his friend to party at his father's condo. One of this play's two main characters tells the audience that he was voted "least likely to be invited to a party" by his grammar school classmates after describing the dimensions of his jail cell and showing them his tape recorder. The narrator of this play, who married Helga because she is the daughter of an ambassador, is convicted of treason after it turns out his "Perfect Woman" has been spying on the (*) French government for 20 years, and later commits seppuku while that lover smokes a cigarette and watches. At the start of this play, a character dances to a traditional Peking Opera number that morphs into a love duet by Puccini. For 10 points, name this play about Rene Gallimard's fatal attraction to the cross-dressing Chinese opera singer Song Liling, written by David Henry Hwang.
M. Butterfly
8

137860-)
This essay quotes Vindice's contemplation of his lover's skull in The Revenger's Tragedy and comments on its "combination of... an intensely strong attraction toward beauty and an equally intense fascination by... ugliness... which destroys it." This essay gives the analogy of oxygen and sulfur dioxide and compares its intended audience to the shred of "finely filiated platinum" that catalyzes their reaction. This essay claims that mature art takes advantage of the "absolute" difference between "art and the event" to deliver a new, complex "art emotion." While discussing the difficulty of attaining its central concept, this essay claims that "Shakespeare acquired more essential (*) history from Plutarch than most men could from the whole British Museum." The author of this essay argues that the artist must understand that, while the "mind" of art changes, this change is not an improvement but an understanding of "which the past's awareness of itself cannot show." For 10 points, name this essay by T.S. Eliot concerning the relation of the poet to the past and "dead poets and artists."
"Tradition and the Individual Talent"
8

137879-)
The narrator of this novel informs the reader that a woman has no jewelry to sell to pay for travel, thus forcing her to walk to a nearby city on foot. A libertine in this novel withholds money given to him to support his friend's abandoned mistress, hoping to make her give in to his sexual advances. The father of this novel's protagonist attempts to help a woman whose death serves as a "striking example" of "vice" leading to "misery and shame," Mrs. (*) Crayton, after arriving in New York to rescue his daughter. This novel's sequel stars the protagonist's daughter Lucy, whose birth kills her mother, despite Mrs. Beauchamp's efforts. The title character of this novel is seduced by a man who kills Belcour in a duel, the soldier John Montraville. The first bestselling novel in American history is, for 10 points, what novel in which the title British girl dies in New York, written by Susanna Rowson?
Charlotte Temple [accept Charlotte, A Tale of Truth]
8

137908-)
A protagonist given the nickname "Marcel" returns to this occupation after his relationship with "C." falls apart and later hesitates when Lentz wishes to kill the personality of a neural net named Helen. A novel centered on this occupation ends with the narrator repeatedly asking himself "What did you expect?" and pits its protagonist against his wife Edith and Hollis Lomax. This central occupation of Richard Powers' Galatea 2.2 is also the occupation of a man who is close friends with (*) Murray Siskind and tries to find the source for the drug Dylar. The protagonist of Stoner has this job, as does a character who grows terrified of death during an "Airborne Toxic Event" and specializes in Hitler Studies. For 10 points, give this occupation held by Jack Gladney in Don Delillo's White Noise.
professors
8

137937-)
One of these objects is "lifted / in the crisp sand / that drives in the wind" and is told "you are caught in the drift" in an H.D. poem. Ezra Pound replaced this object with "dumb-born book" when adapting a poem about this object into the "Envoi" section of "Hugh Selwyn Mauberley." The speaker asks "Why is it no one ever sent me yet / One perfect limousine?" in a Dorothy Parker poem about this object. A line in "Little Gidding" says "The moment of [this object] and the moment of the yew-tree / Are of equal duration." The phrase (*) "Time present and time past" appears in a poem whose first section describes a garden of these plants. This object titles a story in which the title baroness invokes Colonel Sartoris' name to avoid paying taxes. The poem "Sacred Emily" insists that "[this] is a [this] is a [this]." For 10 points, name these flowers in a repetitive quote by Gertrude Stein, which also title a Faulkner novel about one for "Emily."
roses [prompt on "flower(s)"; accept "Sea Rose"; accept "Go, Lovely Rose"; accept "A Rose for Emily"]
8

137945-)
Next to a cannon full of used condoms, this novel's protagonist receives oral sex from his classmate while her father rescues a golfer from a mudflat across the river. A couple in this novel often reference the "Under Toad" after their six-year-old misunderstands the word "undertow." This novel features a society of women who cut their tongues out in honor of the rape victim Ellen James. The title character of this novel pulls into his driveway without his lights on, rear ending a car containing his wife and her student (*) Michael Milton. The protagonist of this novel writes about a hotel inspector encountering a unicycle-riding bear after he moves to Vienna with his mother, the feminist author of A Sexual Suspect, who had conceived him with a wounded Technical Sergeant. For 10 points, name this novel titled for the author of "The Pension Grillparzer" by John Irving.
The World According to Garp
8

137980-)
In one story in this collection, L.D. is unable to articulate "one more thing" to Maxine on his way out after throwing a pickle jar at her. A "plotless" story in this collection involves a woman wondering why a drunk man asked her and her husband to dance at his garage sale. The narrator of a story in this collection is told by his wife to wash his hands when he tries to reconcile with her, after discovering her affair with an aerospace engineer he calls "Mr. Fixit." In this collection's title story, a (*) cardiologist desires to kill his ex-wife with swarms of bees and doesn't understand the meaning an old couple's injured in a car accident. In the title story of this collection, Nick and Laura listen to Terri discuss her abuse by her ex-boyfriend Ed. For 10 points, two couples discussing romance over gin form the basis of the title story of what collection by Raymond Carver?
What We Talk About When We Talk About Love
8

138030-)
A doctor in this play angrily tells his coworker, "Don't think Kennedy and I didn't fight for you!" and that there "doesn't seem to be much difference between a wealthy Jew and a rich Gentile." In this play's fourth "vignette," a "Voice" from the audience warns everyone that Clayton is a corporate "rat." This play begins with an argument between Henry Fatt and (*) Joe, who proclaims that he has decided to rally his coworkers at the behest of his wife Edna. Near the end of this play, Agate proclaims, "WE'RE STORMBIRDS OF THE WORKING CLASS," and the elected chairman of a union, whose whereabouts have been unknown for the entire play, is finally found "Behind the car barns with a bullet in his head!" For 10 points, name this play about a cab drivers' labor strike, written by Clifford Odets.
Waiting for Lefty
8

138050-)
One woman in this novella owns a silver locket which seems "to speak of its own accord," saying, "if your mother could see you now, her heart would break." One boy in this novella gets the nickname "Goat" by headbutting his way through doors that his mother has locked. This novella's action opens with a flatboatman boasting of eating a whole cow at once, followed up "with a live sheep if it's Sunday." In this novella, (*) Salome constantly insists that her husband acquire more land and clashes with her stepdaughter due to her stepdaughter's beauty. Mike Fink gets into a bragging contest with Jamie Lockhart, who elopes with Rosamund in this novella set on the Natchez Trace. For 10 points, name this first work of Eudora Welty, a novella adaptation of a Brothers Grimm fairy tale.
The Robber Bridegroom
8

138087-)
A man in this novel kisses the handle of a pink parasol after being attracted to its "aromatic" scent, only to find out that it belongs to the "youngest and largest" of the Blenker sisters. The protagonist of this novel notes the "intimate" and "foreign" nature of a drawing-room, preferring it to his fiancee's hypothetical drawing room. This novel notes that "Americans want to get away from amusement even more quickly than they want to get to it" during a performance of Gounod's Faust. In this novel, Mrs. (*) Mingott suffers a stroke shortly after Julius Beaufort's wife demands financial support following the collapse of his business. At the end of this novel, the protagonist watches a servant close the windows of a Parisian apartment owned by a woman whom he had earlier advised not to seek a divorce from a Polish count. For 10 points, name this novel about Newland Archer's relationship with Countess Ellen Olenska, written by Edith Wharton.
The Age of Innocence
8

138157-)
While living in this character's home, a man begins singing hymns after experiencing a vision of Jesus's crown of thorns turning into "rays of glory." This man's superstitiousness is exposed when a woman complains to him of noise on the garret floor, and he chickens out by refusing to take his pistols and investigate it. In a climactic scene, this man is told "Ye poor miserable critter! I forgive ye with all my soul" by a man whose forgiveness persuade two of his workers to convert to Christianity. This character remarks "I'll soon have that out of ya!" while rifling through a (*) Methodist hymn-book he took from another's belongings. This man relies on a pair of huge goons named Quimbo and Sambo, whom he sends to beat a man refuses to explain where Cassy and Emmeline have gone. For 10 points, what cruel master orders the death of the title character in Uncle Tom's Cabin?
Simon Legree [accept either underlined portion]
9

138192-)
This is the alphabetically-prior author of a book that cites Chinua Achebe's warning of "dangers of hubris" to Igbo in a chapter that notes how African and Caribbean immigrants' identification with their background positively correlates with educational achievement, particularly among Nigerians. This author argued that attempts to export democracy abroad aggravate ethnic hatred in World on Fire. J. D. Vance credits pointed to this author as the "authorial grandmother" of Hillbilly Elegy and credited her with mentoring him in (*) law school. With her husband, she used eight groups as examples of how "superiority complex," "insecurity," and "impulse control" lead to success in The Triple Package. In public book-signings, she insisted that she did not burn stuffed animals while raising Lulu and Sophia, whom she made play musical instruments. For 10 points, name this Yale professor, the aunt of quizbowl cheater Dimitri Halikias and the author of The Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother.
Amy Chua
9

138194-)
In The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas, Gertrude Stein calls this author "a village explainer, excellent if you were a village, but if you were not, not." Hugh Kenner's profile of this author, which places him at the center of his contemporaries, is titled for his "Era." A letter by this author explains that the British Empire "some centuries earlier" is reflected in a poem in which "Caesar plots against India" and "victor and conquered" will become "one tangle of shadows." In the same set of poems, this author reversed a line praising Virgil's epic poetry from Book II by an (*) ancient author who explained why he writes love poems instead of epics. This man was misinterpreted by critics who said he made poor translations in Quia pauper amavi, which re-interprets a series of elegies celebrating Cynthia. He suggested the name "Vorticism" for the movement led by his friend Wyndham Lewis and used the slogan "Make it new" to guide Modernism. For 10 points, name this author of "Homage to Sextus Propertius."
Ezra Pound [accept The Pound Era]
9

138221-)
This fictional character believes that civilization consists of a dialectic between Jerusalem and Athens, an idea taken from this character's teacher Dr. Davarr. This character's lover uncovers a swindler in Singapore who attempts to sell a fake $2,500 Lanvin jacket to this character, who speaks with young black men on the streets about Ferragamo and tailored suits and habitually chain-smokes in a silk robe. This character is encouraged by the narrator to write a book exhorting the soul "to seek its missing half" and denouncing (*) rock music. This character lives in an apartment building called The Alhambra with his young boyfriend, Nikki. He's the former teacher of the narrator's second wife, Rosamund, and is based on the author's deceased friend Allan Bloom. For 10 points, name this aging professor and protagonist of Saul Bellow's final novel.
Abe Ravelstein [accept either underlined portion]
9

138254-)
The author's note to this play indicates that a repetition of characters' names with no dialogue indicates an "elongated and heightened rest" where characters "experience their pure true simple state." In this play's first scene, characters read aloud such phrases as "Waste not want not" and "Your luck will change!" after opening the fortune cookies from their Chinese takeout. Near the end of this play, one character struggles to untie the knot on a nylon sock containing his "inheritance." A character in this play angrily conceals his "girlie mags" beneath his bed as he waits for his (*) girlfriend Grace. In its sixth scene, a character claims to have landed a job as a security guard, when in reality he spent the day hustling people on the street in a game of three-card monte. This play's cast of two consists of the shoplifter Booth and his presidential impersonator brother Lincoln. For 10 points, name this 2002 Pulitzer Prize-winning play by Suzan-Lori Parks.
Topdog/Underdog
9

138261-)
In a story by this author, a toll keeper outside the town of Kimballton describes the title character as "more like a ghost or an old mummy than good flesh and blood." In one story, this author responded to accusations of plagiarizing Dumas by including a footnote that accused Dumas himself of frequently plagiarizing little-known authors. In that story by this author, a character hurriedly devises a scheme to supply the East Indies with ice by harnessing whales to icebergs. At the conclusion of a story by this author, the gossiping tobacco dealer (*) Dominicus Pike unintentionally thwarts the title miser's hanging by a robber. In another story by this author, the central location contains a portrait of the title character's childhood love Sylvia Ward, as well as a cut-glass vase which is accidentally smashed as three temporarily rejuvenated bachelors tussle with the Widow Wycherly. For 10 points, name this early American author of "Mr. Higginbotham's Catastrophe" and "Dr. Heidegger's Experiment."
Nathaniel Hawthorne
9

138611-)
In The Logic of Sense, Gilles Deleuze analyzes the Rougon-Macquart novels in terms of the title concept of this essay, which he links with the death drive. The author of this essay quotes the line from Matthew about the salt of the earth after being reminded of Spinoza by a woman who tries to convince him to blame the Grand Canyon for his woes. This essay is the source of the oft-quoted definition of intelligence as "the ability to hold two opposed ideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability to function." This essay, which begins "Of course all life is a process of (*) breaking down," was followed up with "Pasting It Together" and "Handle with Care," both of which were also published in Esquire. It recounts the author's mental breakdown at the age of 39. For 10 points, name this essay by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
"The Crack-Up"
9

138616-)
In a story by this author, two college students follow around a man in a hooded coat and argue about the proper term for the coat he's wearing. One of this author's characters excitedly recalls his childhood in Minnesota while radio shows from decades in the past play over the narrator's headset. Another of his characters goes to an art museum for three days in a row to see an exhibition of paintings about the execution of some terrorists. This author wrote the short stories "Midnight in Dostoevsky" and (*) "Baader-Meinhof." Two people orbit above the Earth to collect wartime intelligence in this author's short story "Human Moments in World War III." For 10 points, name this author of The Angel Esmeralda, whose story "Pafko at the Wall" became the prologue to his novel Underworld.
Don DeLillo [or Donald Richard DeLillo]
9

138619-)
This is the last word in the title of a poem whose placement at the beginning of the volume in which it appears led a commentator to declare it "must be some sort of manifesto, but of what was it the proclamation?" This is the first word in the title of a poem which opens with a man asserting that the soul is composed of the external world. A poem whose title ends with this word repeats images of bucks (*) clattering and swerving and a firecat bristling. This is the first word in the title of a poem in which the "slovenly wilderness" rose up and "sprawled around, no longer wild." That poem is about an object which was "round upon the ground" and "took dominion everywhere." For 10 points, name this word which appears in the titles of several poems from Wallace Stevens' Harmonium, including one beginning "I placed a jar in Tennessee."
anecdote
9

138629-)
One of these works by this author is about performing a nose job on an "osteoclastible lass" named Esther. Another of these works by this author is about a woman who has been kissed by "amateur Frobeniuses" even though she isn't apt to "murmur low axioms of Zermelo." Titles for these works include "DesÂ·oxyÂ·ephedrine Daddy" and "You Can Do a Lot of Things at the Seaside That You Can't Do In Town." Another of these works by this author is about an object "with a big purple head, sticking up from the bed" and is called "The (*) Penis He Thought Was His Own." These works are performed by groups like The Paranoids and Sick Dick and the Volkswagens. For 10 points, name these musical works which litter novels like V. and Gravity's Rainbow.
song lyrics from novels by Thomas (Ruggles) Pynchon
9

138641-)
In the introduction to one book, this author recalls telephoning Archbishop Pasquale Macchi to confirm whether or not he had accidentally set Pope Paul VI's alarm clock to the exact time the Pope died. This author's most recent book opens with an account of a "chicken gun," which fires chickens at fighter planes to test how well they will survive collisions with birds. A chapter called "Foreplay" introduces a book by this author which recounts a trip to observe pig (*) insemination on a Danish farm and which ends with the exclamation "Hats and pants off to you all." This author and her husband became the first couple to be recorded having sex in a 4D ultrasound machine as research for her book about the science of human sexuality. For 10 points, name this author of pop-science books with monosyllabic titles like Spook, Gulp, Bonk and Stiff.
Mary Roach
9

138648-)
One of this author's protagonists pays an actor on a live soap opera to go off script by ranting about how bad the show is, but the result is that critics start praising the show for its avant-garde comedy. That protagonist, Guy Grand, is an eccentric billionaire who plays pranks on people. He is the more famous of the two authors of a novel about a woman whose quest to lose her virginity culminates in her having sex with the hump of a mentally challenged hunchback. According to Tom Wolfe, this man's essay "Twirling at Ole Miss" was the first work of (*) New Journalism. This author of The Magic Christian and co-author of Candy wrote an outrageous pie fight scene which was originally planned as the ending of a movie which ends with the song "We'll Meet Again." For 10 points, name this author who worked on the screenplays for Easy Rider and Dr. Strangelove.
Terry Southern
9

138655-)
The speaker of this poem says that he, his soul and his body make a "curious trio" wandering amid the shadows. This poem describes "life's involv'd and varied pageants" and "all the workmen at their work." It asks whether "the feasters gluttonous feast" and the "corpulent sleepers sleep." This poem exalts a "resistless restless race" which is a "beloved race in all." This poem begins with the command "Come my (*) tan-faced children, follow well in order, get your weapons ready." This poem in praise of westward expansion consists of four-line stanzas, all of which end with the title. For 10 points, name this Walt Whitman poem which provided the title of a novel about Alexandra Bergson by Willa Cather.
"Pioneers! O Pioneers!"
9

138671-)
This essay's author imagines asking a record store employee "You wouldn't have any Shonen Knife, would you?" and being told "Sir, this is a music shop." This essay quotes Laurie Anderson's observation that virtual reality doesn't look real unless you put dirt in it. The author of this essay says "My ass is out of here" after hearing about the death sentence handed down to the Dutchman Johannes Van Damme. It notes that shopping and eating are the two main pastimes in a (*) place where people can get a massage with a happy ending at the mall. This essay recounts a "relentlessly G-rated experience" in a place which is described as having "no slack," as if IBM possessed a physical country. For 10 points, name this essay about Singapore by William Gibson.
"Disneyland with the Death Penalty"
9

138672-)
This author noted "LBJ has made it quite clear to make he doesn't give a good goddamn what I think" in the poem "A Historical Footnote to Consider Only When All Else Fails." In a poem by this author, the speaker says she likes summer best, because you can "be warm all the time not only when you go to bed and sleep." A poem by this author laments the focus on childhood memories like "living in Woodlawn with no inside toilet," concluding "they'll probably talk about my hard childhood and never understand that all the while I was quite happy." She delivered a chant-poem at a ceremony memorializing the victims of the (*) Virginia Tech massacre, since Seung- Hui Cho was one of her students. This poet's collections include Love Poems and Black Feeling, Black Talk. For 10 points, name this African-American poet who wrote "Knoxville, Tennesee" and "Nikki-Rosa."
Nikki Giovanni [or Yolande Cornelia Giovanni, Jr.]
9

138689-)
In one poem, this man thinks himself "worse than any man that ever breathed." A poem narrated by this man describes "a gentleman of more than common understanding" who "would sit and watch the wind knocking a tree" and who ends up slitting his own throat. In a third poem, he calls himself "contemptible, stiff and dull" and laments "I have a constitution peculiarly unhappy," sparked by his apprehension at being offered a prestigious position. He tells (*) Josiah Hawley to imagine being thrown into a kiln in a poem which asks "How will the hands be strong? How will the heart endure?" and ends "this is the Black Widow, death." In that poem, this man sees a spider die after being thrown in a fire. For 10 points, name this subject of several Robert Lowell poems, a theologian who delivered the sermon "Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God."
Jonathan Edwards
9

138694-)
Mexican author Mario Bellatin notoriously once used a silver dildo as this type of object at a literary conference. The bartender Ratz destroys an ashtray using one of these objects in Neuromancer. The title of a story by Edgar Allan Poe refers to the fact that John A. B. C. Smith has a lot of these objects. A character is stabbed in the groin by one of these objects when disembarking from the (*) Samuel Enderby. A character who collects these objects also has a hollowed-out Bible with a bottle of whiskey and some condoms inside, and steals one of these objects from Hulga Hopewell in Flannery O'Connor's "Good Country People." For 10 points, name this type of object, one of which is worn by Captain Ahab after he's bitten by Moby Dick.
prosthetics [accept word forms; accept "prosthetic arms" or "prosthetic legs" or "artificial limbs" or "wooden legs" or similar answers]
9

138698-)
A character in this play is told to write a play about "Ism-Mania," which she thinks is "some kind of itch or something." A character in this play causes an uproar by suggesting "Wall Street" as a response to "sex" in a word-association game. An eccentric grandfather in this play keeps snakes, which scare away Wilbur C. Henderson, who has come to investigate him for his longtime refusal to pay his income tax. In this play, Ed prints out (*) quotes that he likes the sound of and puts them on Essie's candy boxes, but since those quotes include things like "DYNAMITE THE CAPITOL," his house is raided by federal agents. This play about the Vanderhof/Sycamore family was the product of a collaboration that also produced The Man Who Came to Dinner. For 10 points, name this comedy by Kaufman and Hart.
You Can't Take It with You
9

138712-)
One of this author's characters mentions a supposedly ancient saying, "There are times when the wolves are silent; there are times when the moon howls," which is actually a piece of graffiti in the lobby of the Palm Royale. That character keeps a glass of water on her nightstand because of her fear of earthquakes. This student of Gordon Lish used the sentence "The year I began to say vahz instead of vase, a man I barely knew nearly accidentally killed me" to open her story "The (*) Harvest." The narrator of her most famous story thinks about a chimp who was taught sign language and signed "Baby, come hug" after her baby died. That story is about a woman staying in the hospital with her best friend, who is sent to the title place when she dies. For 10 points, name this author of "In the Cemetery Where Al Jolson Is Buried."
Amy Hempel
9

138717-)
 Paul Crumbley's book Inflections of the Pen argues that the varying size and shape of these things is significant. The speaker of a Billy Collins poem notices how suddenly "there were [these things] whenever we spoke" after observing how a woman's hair "tumbled free of its pins." The shape and size of these things were standardized by the editors Mabel Loomis Todd and Thomas (*) Wentworth Higginson. These things immediately follow phrases like "the Stillness in the Room was like the Stillness in the Air." One of these things was omitted following the phrase "his notice sudden is" when the Republican published the poem "A narrow Fellow in the Grass." For 10 points, name this punctuation mark which Emily Dickinson made liberal use of.
Emily Dickinson's dashes                 
9

138719-)
A book whose title begins with this phrase recounts how the author survived by making drinks out of dandelions and killing and eating her pet dog Spot. In a book of this title, Bemis tells of how he was chased up a tree by a wounded buffalo, reminding the narrator of a liar named Eckert who claimed his cat could eat coconuts. These are the first two words in the title of a book which has similar subject matter to the writings of the author's sister Catharine Parr Traill; that book about the experience of a British settler in Canada is by (*) Susanna Moodie. A book of this title recounts a stagecoach journey to the American West which the author took with his brother, Orion Clemens. For 10 points, name this two-word phrase which titles Mark Twain's prequel to The Innocents Abroad.
roughing it
9

138723-)
 A poem by this author tells the addressee "I want to put a lollipop in thy furcal mouth, a wig of Goldilocks on thy baldy bean, and have you skip with me Hansel and Gretel along the Hollywoodian screen." The speaker ponders telling the girl next door about "werewolf bathtubs" and "forked clarinets" in a poem by this author which asks "Should I get married? Should I be Good?" He wrote things like "BING BANG BONG BOOM bee bear baboon" in a poem shaped like a mushroom cloud which led people who missed the irony to accuse him of supporting nuclear weapons. This author of "Marriage" and (*) "Bomb" was inspired by his time in Clinton Prison to write collections like Gasoline and The Vestal Lady on Brattle. For 10 points, name this Beat poet.
Gregory (Nunzio) Corso
9

138730-)
A character in this book is traumatized when he is asked to load a corpse into a wagon by a man who pretends he is going to lock him in the wagon with the corpse. A character in this book is so inspired by the preaching of Reverend Thomas that she hits him on the head with her purse and knocks his teeth out. In this book, the valedictorian Henry Reed leads a rousing chorus to raise the spirits of the graduating students who have just heard a speech by Mr. (*) Donleavy insinuating that black people are only good at sports. Mr. Freeman rapes this book's main character when she is eight, causing her to become mute until Mrs. Bertha Flowers convinces her to talk. This book was followed by Gather Together in My Name and five other volumes. For 10 points, name this first book in Maya Angelou's seven-volume autobiography.
I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings
9

138737-)
A poem describes this concept as the "rhythmic lover" of the "sweet spontaneous earth," and mentions its "incomparable couch." A poem about a 16-year-old prostitute named Kitty describes her "slippery body" as the "littlest pal" of this concept. The speaker of another poem declares that he loves humanity "because you are forever making poems in the lap of" this concept, just before declaring "Humanity i hate you." Along with "forever," this concept is (*) rendered "with each breathing" by the texture of the addressee's "intense fragility" in the poem "somewhere i have never travelled,gladly beyond." The poem "since feeling is first" ends by musing that this thing "is no parenthesis." For 10 points, name this concept, whose personification is asked "how do you like your blue- eyed boy" in E. E. Cummings' poem "Buffalo Bill's."
death
9

138747-)
A woman hurtles through the window to relay the news that this person is "rupturing the pleasant arpeggio of our years" after having been forced to flee the country "by the schemes of his wizened, duplicate father." While relaxing on a green couch, a character remarks "How pleasant to spend one's vacation en la casa de [this person]" and scratches the single hair on her chin. An undecoded message begins "[This man] sits in thunder, unthought of" in a poem which ends with him (*) chuckling and scratching his balls. That poem is a sestina whose end-words include "apartment," "thunder" and "spinach." For 10 points, name this subject of John Ashbery's "Farm            Implements and Rutabagas in a Landscape," whose other characters include Wimpy and Olive Oyl.
Popeye the Sailor Man
9

138753-)
In a play by Sydney Rosenfeld, the answer to this question is revealed to be "an old hag named Polyxena." This question is alluded to by the final words of Sylvia Plath's sonnet "Ennui." A deputation of five strangers seeking the answer to this question are instead told a story about a prince who is gets married while blindfolded and is then asked to pick out his bride from a lineup of forty women. The strangers are then told they will be given the answer to this question if they can identify whether the prince (*) chose the woman who frowned slightly or the woman who smiled slightly. The sequel "The Discourager of Hesitancy" failed to answer this question, which results from the policies of a "semi-barbaric king" who discovers the love affair between his daughter and a courtier and decides to punish him. For 10 points, name this question which has long plagued readers of the most famous short story by Frank Stockton.
What was behind the door in "The Lady, or the Tiger?"? [or What happened at the end of "The Lady, or the Tiger?"?; accept any similar answer mentioning "The Lady, or the Tiger?"
9

138757-)
A character in this play tells a story about a pilot who crashes his plane because he is so worked up with guilt about the fact that he let his mind drift while flying. A character in this play has written a book about "the virtual warehousing of the young" and "the curse of modern education." This play ends with a character saying "Yes. That's right" after another character nearly attacks her with a chair. This play gets its title from a (*) folk song about a Norwegian composer's failed utopian community. At the beginning of this play, its main characters discuss the meaning of the phrase "term of art" after one of them has a phone conversation with his wife in which they talk about the word "easement," because they are buying a new house. The only two characters in this play are John and Carol, who frequently interrupt each other. For 10 points, name this David Mamet play in which a professor is accused of sexual harassment by a student.
Oleanna
9

138764-)
In a play written during this century, people like Hortensius, Cassius and Brutus rise up against Rapatio, the tyrannical ruler of Upper Servia. That play is called The Adulateur. In a play fictionalizing events that took place in this century, a soldier named Bland tries to prevent the execution of the title character. A comically rustic servant named Jonathan appears in a play from this century whose prologue calls it "a piece we may fairly call our own." In that play from this century, (*) Maria, who is introduced singing "The Death Song of Alknomook," is engaged to Billy Dimple, but falls in love with Colonel Henry Manly. That play is The Contrast. For 10 points, people like William Dunlap, Mercy Otis Warren and Royall Tyler pioneered American drama in what century?
1700s [or 18th century]
9

138772-)
In a poem by this author, smoke arising from an object abandoned in a gully tells the townspeople that a derelict has "established his bad castle" in that object. He wrote about how one day he will "no longer find myself in life as in a strange garment" in a poem in which he muses, "every year without knowing it I have passed the day when the last fires will wave to me." When he won a Pulitzer for his collection The (*) Carrier of Ladders, this author of "The Drunk in the Furnace" and "For the Anniversary of My Death" donated the prize money to the Vietnam draft resistance movement. For decades, this poet has lived on a former pineapple plantation in Hawaii, working to restore the rainforest there. For 10 points, name this environmentalist poet also known for his translation of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair.
William Stanley Merwin
9

138781-)
A Stephen Spender article in The Paris Review prompted Martha Gellhorn to publish an article accusing this person of doing this. A flashpoint for accusations that this person did this was the publication of a book whose main character helps a friend smuggle $50,000 in a fur hat to fund the Austrian resistance. Muriel Gardiner accused this person of doing this thing in the (*) "Julia" chapter of her book Pentimento. This woman initiated a defamation suit after being accused of doing this by a guest on The Dick Cavett Show, igniting a bitter literary feud. For 10 points, name the playwright of The Little Foxes and what Mary McCarthy memorably accused her of doing with "every word she writes ... including and and the."
Lillian (Florence) Hellman lying [accept clear equivalents, like Lillian Hellman making stuff up]
9

138785-)
his essay notes that, even though Aristotle and Plato are thought of as belonging to different schools, "a wise man will see that Aristotle Platonizes." This essay includes a couplet beginning "Forgive his crimes, forgive his virtues too," which is actually a misquotation of Edward Young's Night Thoughts. It ends by mentioning opium and alcohol as things which hold a dangerous attraction because of our desire to raise ourselves above ourselves. This essay is largely concerned with how we propose general laws to explain the world, but each time we do, a new (*) generalization which encapsulates it is proposed. This essay begins by stating that the eye and the horizon are the first two examples of the title figure, which is repeated throughout nature. For 10 points, name this essay by Ralph Waldo Emerson named after a shape.
"Circles"
9

138800-)
A work of this type by H. P. Lovecraft notes that "Shanty House was the name of a novel by I forget whom published serially in the All-Story Weekly before it was a weekly." The speaker of a work of this type muses "today I am fifty-five, and this time last year I was fifty-four, and this time next year I shall be sixty-two" after perceptively pointing out "as we get older we do not get any younger." A work of this type consisting of five short poems warns "after this it gets deep" and ends "I hope you'll make sense of the (*) notes." A set of five limericks by Wendy Cope comprise a work of this type, another example of which is Henry Reed's poem "Chard Whitlock." For 10 points, name this type of work, including Lovecraft's "Waste Paper: A Poem of Profound Insignificance," which makes fun of the author of Four Quartets and The Waste Land.
parodies of T. S. Eliot [accept parodies of The Waste Land before "Four Quartets"; accept parodies of Four Quartets or parodies of "Burnt Norton" before "Waste Paper"]
9

138816-)
The notes at the end of this book are preceded by a "note on the notes" in which the author rejects the idea of accommodating objections to the idea of including notes, lest the work itself become "the donkey that finally found itself being carried by its masters." This book ends with a selection of verse translations of the fables of La Fontaine. The author's only explanation for the glaring omissions from this book was the terse epigraph (*) "Omissions are not accidents." Most notoriously, this volume reduces from twenty-nine lines to three lines a poem declaring "I, too, dislike it." For 10 points, identify this inaccurately-named 1967 collection which does not actually contain all of the verse by the author of works like "The Steeple-Jack" and "Poetry."
The Complete Poems of Marianne Moore [accept anything with both of the underlined parts, but do not accept The Collected Poems of Marianne Moore, which is a different collection]
9

138819-)
One of these passages includes three consecutive sections ending with variations on the question "Say buddy cant you tell me how I can get back to my outfit?" Another of these passages, which describes a Norwegian farmer- turned-academic, is entitled "The Bitter Drink." The formatting of the table of contents suggests that the very last passage in the work, which describes a nameless hitchhiker and is called (*) "Vag" ["vague"], should be considered one of these passages. The most celebrated of these passages ends by saying "Woodrow Wilson brought a bouquet of poppies" to the funeral of John Doe, the Unknown Soldier; that passage is called "The Body of an American." These passages interrupt the main narrative of the work they appear in, along with the "Newsreel" and "Camera Eye" sections. For 10 points, name these passages from John Dos Passos' magnum opus which focus on the lives of individual Americans.
biographies from the U.S.A. Trilogy
9

138823-)
An adaptation of this play features a mysterious person in a rabbit costume, originally played by the author himself, who performs bits of physical comedy at various points. That adaptation of this play begins with a prologue called "The Art of Dramatic Composition" in which this play's author makes fun of BJJ, who represents the adaptation's author, Branden Jacobs-Jenkins. This play based on a Thomas Mayne Reid novel ends with the title character dying after drinking poison, because she learns too late that she is free to marry her love because the villain has been found guilty of murdering (*) Paul. In this play, George Peyton and Jacob McClosky are both in love with the title character, Zoe, who lives on the Terrebonne plantation in Louisiana. For 10 points, name this Dion Boucicault play whose title character is one-eighth black.
The Octoroon
9

138824-)
In a story by an author with this surname, the Complete Little Citizen of the World is happy to read the obituary of Mr. Krupper, an old man who has sexual liaisons with young boys in a run-down cinema. An author with this surname wrote a story narrated by a doctor who is called upon to help a poor Russian family in which the mother has a drinking problem and the baby has a heart defect, though the doctor shows more interest in the title character, who is the baby's older sister. The aforementioned stories, both by authors better known for their non-prose works, are called (*) "Hard Candy" and "The Girl with a Pimply Face," respectively. In 2013, there was a massive resurgence in popularity of an author with this surname who wrote about an English professor from Missouri in the novel Stoner. For 10 points, identify this surname of the authors William Carlos and Tennessee.
Williams
9

138839-)
This specific poem describes a "bedlamite ... tilting there momently, shrill shirt ballooning," as "a jest falls from the speechless caravan." This poem includes the parenthetical exclamation "How could mere toil align thy choiring strings!" It describes its addressee's guerdon as "obscure as the heaven of the Jews." This poem ends by telling its addressee to "unto us lowliest sometime sleep, descend and of the curveship lend a myth to God." It begins "How many dawns, chill from his rippling rest, the (*) seagull's wings shall dip and pivot him." This poem is immediately followed by "Ave Maria," which includes a dramatic monologue delivered by Christopher Columbus. It is the first section of a long poem whose other sections include "Powhatan's Daughter" and "Cape Hatteras." For 10 points, name this introductory section of Hart Crane's The Bridge.
"Proem: To Brooklyn Bridge" [accept either underlined portion; prompt on "The Bridge" or descriptive answers like "the first poem in The Bridge"]
9

139653-)
In one work by this author, an octopus is described as a "creeping murderer" in the Great Tide Pool on the tip of the Peninsula as a character collects starfish. Enrique, Pajarito, Rudolph, Fluff and Senor Alec Thompson followed a character in another work by this man. Another of that character's dogs had been healed by the intercession of St. Francis, but was run over by a truck shortly afterward. In some of his works, Doc collects specimens for Western Biological, and likes (*) octopi a little better than his female companion as he grows more interested in his research into octopod apoplexy, and in another, the Pirate preached to his dogs about stories of St. Francis. In another work, one character gets in trouble by his reaction to a shared characteristic of Oryctolagus cuniculus and members of the Muridae family, and died thinking about the Leporidae family. For ten points, name the author of this work where Lennie and George plan to buy a rabbit farm, as well as the novels Sweet Thursday, Cannery Row, Tortilla Flat, Of Mice and Men.
John Steinbeck
9

139900-)
An offstage character named Goodman in this work is described as a "Hebrew hermaphrodite," while another character is obsessed with wearing "Devil's Kiss" lipstick. The character of Janice boils the skin off a dead cat in order to obtain its skeleton, and the climax involves the killing of a pet rabbit, Peter. Featuring the sisters Ruth and Tillie and their insane mother, FTP, name this work which describes Tillie's titular science fair experiment, a play by Paul Zindel.
The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in the-Moon Marigolds
9

139902-)
This author created the cowardly spy Boysie Oakes in a series of novels beginning with The Liquidator. He also created such villains as ex-Nazi Count Konrad von Gloda and the one-breasted, python-loving Nena Bismaquer in novels like Icebreaker and For Special Services after reviving the James Bond series with Licence Renewed. FTP, name this author who shares his name with the author of Mickelsson's Ghosts, who inverted the Beowulf legend in his novel Grendel.
John Gardner
9

139907-)
This man's experiences teaching in South Carolina were portrayed on film in a 1974 movie starring Jon Voight. He described his collegiate career playing point guard in the memoir My Losing Season, and drew upon his family's military nature in a work focusing on Lt. Colonel Bull Meecham entitled The Great Santini. His best known work explores the dysfunctional family of Tom Wingo, who was raped as a child. FTP, name this author of a work adapted into a film by Barbra Streisand, The Prince of Tides.
Pat Conroy
9

139908-)
This work was adapted into a 1967 musical which added scenes at a skating rink and was named Sherry!  Near the end, the titular character recognizes another character to be an infamous axe murderess named Harriet Sedley. This work includes such characters as an entertainer named Banjo, who was based on Harpo Marx, while the titular character was based on critic Alexander Woollcott. FTP, name this Kaufman and Hart comedy about the tyrannical Sheridan Whiteside.
The Man Who Came to Dinner
9

139913-)
At one point in this work the author suggests the reader ask clerks to "make a brief memorandumÂ…concerning the life of Correggio." The author of this work founded a community called the Roycrofters and died on the Lusitania. The work specifically praises a "fellow by the name of Rowan," who is handpicked by President McKinley. FTP, name this 1899 inspirational essay by Elbert Hubbard about the delivery of the titular wartime missive to a Spaniard. 
A Message to Garcia
9

139915-)
The author of this work originally titled it The Transgressor, but abandoned it for a while after suffering a nervous breakdown. The author of this work told Claude Bowers he "overdrew" the titular character, who ends the work by adopting the orphans Rose Perpetua and Henry Stover after her daughter, Vesta, dies of typhoid. Featuring the titular character impregnated by Senator Brander, FTP, name this work about a poor young girl, written by Theodore Dreiser.
Jennie Gerhardt
9

139918-)
This poem describes a location where "surly Charons make their annual trip" and where "Nature's plagues abound, to fret and tease." Beginning with an epigraph from The Merchant of Venice that notes "affections dark as Erebus," this work notes how "Angola's natives" are "scourged by ruffian hands," a reference to the hellish state of the titular character's slaves. FTP, name this Philip Freneau poem addressed to a sugar planter and not a buffoonish character from Twelfth Night.
"To Sir Toby"
9

139919-)
One character in this play "always chooses the Derringer" because he's "for History as it Used to Be," while a common line in the first act is "little ringing in the ears. Slight deafness." The second act of this play involves a search for wonders undertaken by Lucy and her son, Brazil, while the first features the Foundling Father being continually shot by paying participants. FTP, name this surrealistic Suzan-Lori Parks work where Abraham Lincoln's assassination is reenacted over and over.
The America Play
9

139920-)
One television show with this name aired the episode "A Lion Walks Among Us," which prompted a Senate investigation for its violence. A film with this name features a famously inept rendition of "That Old Black Magic" sung at a Phoenix cafe. A play with this name includes Sheriff Will Masters and waitress Elma and takes place during a snowstorm. FTP, name this play featuring cowboy Bo and his love Cherie, a William Inge work, which also names a Hollies song.
Bus Stop
9

139922-)
One incident in this work involves a marriage that only lasted ten days, with the husband eventually being thrown in jail. Denizens of the titular location include Stumpy MacPhail, while the climax involves a hunchback jumping on the back of his masculine cousin. Ending with a fight between Max and his ex-wife, Amelia, over the attention of Cousin Lymon, FTP, name this Carson McCullers story, later dramatized by Edward Albee, about the titular dreary restaurant.
The Ballad of the Sad CafÃ© 
9

139923-)
This author's writings in Sports Illustrated about the travails of an old-line country club were collected in the book Life at Happy Knoll. One of his books is about famous Newburyport eccentric Timothy Dexter and he also created the Japanese secret agent Mr. Moto. In this author's most famous book, the titular character writes letters about the futility of his upper-class Boston Brahmin existence. FTP, name this author of The Late George Apley.
John P. Marquand 
9

139924-)
Besides Robert Coover and Karl Popper, this man is the first author whose name is mentioned in the original "Quizbowl Book Club" thread. This author has been sued by event planner Anthony DiMeo III and by the former Miss Vermont, Katy Johnson. A graduate of the University of Chicago, this author's most notable work includes such stories as "My Key West Trip" and "She Won't Take No for an Answer." FTP, name this "fratire" author of the book I Hope They Serve Beer in Hell.
Tucker Max
9

139928-)
This man adapted The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky for a segment in the movie Face to Face and wrote the screenplay for a movie depicting Willa Harper's murder by her husband, Harry Powell. Besides The Night of the Hunter, this man wrote the script for a film featuring the missionary Rose Sayer and ship captain Charlie Allnut, The African Queen. His best known book was turned into a film called All the Way Home featuring Robert Preston as Jay Follet. FTP, name this author of A Death in the Family.
James Agee
9

139930-)
The protagonist of this work cannot concentrate enough to read Anna Karenina and instead reads comic books. While attending Stoddard College, the protagonist meets Dorothy Kingship, whom he impregnates and then later kills, along with her sister, Ellen. Adapted into a 1991 movie starring Matt Dillon and featuring Sean Young as both sisters, FTP, name this work about the charming psychopath Bud Corliss, an early novel by Ira Levin.
A Kiss Before Dying
9

139931-)
The literary and arts journal at the University of Wyoming is named for this man. He described his acquaintance with a president in Roosevelt: The Story of a Friendship, written about the man he dedicated his best known work to. In that work, this author wrote the famous line "When you call me that, SMILE," spoken by the titular character after he is called a son of a bitch. FTP, name this western author who fictionalized the Johnson County War in The Virginian.
Owen Wister
9

139934-)
This author described growing up in Minneapolis and Seattle in the memoir Memories of a Catholic Girlhood. This writer famously said that every word her rival wrote was a lie, including "and" and "the," and that rivalry was fictionalized in Nora Ephron's play Imaginary Friends. Besides feuding with Lillian Hellman, this author's best known work describes eight graduates from Vassar College. FTP, name this wife of Edmund Wilson and author of The Group.
Mary McCarthy
9

139935-)
A character in this work frequently carries around a pamphlet written by D.D. Vanderbilt entitled Forward America! One character breaks up with Lydia after she breaks a date to take her child to an emergency room. A crucial plot point in this work is the titular characters guest starring on I Love Lucy as Ricky Ricardo's cousins. FTP, name this Oscar Hijuelos work about Nestor and Cesar Castillo, Latin musicians who specialize in playing certain amorous ballads.
The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love
9

139936-)
Because of its use of child labor, authorities, including D.A. Joab Banton, attempted to prevent this play's performance in New York. One scene in this play features a tenor singing "I wish that I'd never been born." This play opens with characters playing marbles, with one child called "Painty Face," and ends with Jim vowing to play marbles "right up to the gates of Heaven" with his wife, Ella. FTP, name this Eugene O'Neill play about interracial marriage.
All God's Chillun Got Wings
9

139938-)
This man carries a screenwriting credit for the western Stand Up and Fight and the swashbuckler Gypsy Wildcat. One of his works features the titular character sparring with her daughter, Veda, while another sees murderous insurance agent Walter Huff. In his best known work, Frank Chambers murder Nick Papadakis with the help of Nick's wife, Cora. FTP, name this noir author of the works Mildred Pierce, Double Indemnity, and The Postman Always Rings Twice. 
James M. Cain
9

139939-)
One character in this work used to be married to Bernice under the name of John Stockton, but eventually gives it up and gets a job varnishing automobile wheels. A supporting character is the carefree Sponge Martin, while at the end of this work, a character brandishes a revolver but is unable to kill himself or Bruce Dudley, who stole his wife Aline. FTP, name this Sherwood Anderson work which occasionally features the titular displays of mirth from black workers.
Dark Laughter
9

139941-)
The full title of this author's most famous work quotes Deuteronomy 32:39. That work closes with this author's urging to "stand still and see the salvation of the Lord" after noting that God has "had His time to scourge and chasten me." This author was granted an annuity by the town of Wethersfield, Connecticut, after her husband died. FTP, name this author who described being taken by "ravenous beasts" in a famous captivity narrative published in 1682.
Mary Rowlandson 
9

139947-)
One character in this work is the fashionable society painter, Claude Walsingham Popple, who paints the protagonist, who is also served by the manicurist and masseuse Mrs. Heeny. The protagonist married Elmer Moffat while in Apex, but ends the work by marrying him again, having been married to Ralph Marvell and Raymond De Chelle in the interim. FTP, name this Edith Wharton work about Undine Spragg's attempt to rise in New York society.
Custom of the Country
9

139949-)
The authors of this work once appeared on "The David Frost Show" and were introduced to the tune of "A Pretty Girl is Like a Melody." The idea for this book originated from Newsday columnist Mike McGrady, and the main character of this work hosts a radio show with her husband Billy. Set in Long Island and written by 24 writers in total under the alias "Penelope Ashe," FTP, name this infamous book with nonstop sex, written to parody vulgar literature.
Naked Came the Stranger
9

139950-)
This author wrote about the family of movie mogul Sam Pearlstein and about a woman inadvertently marrying her own illegitimate son in the books His Little Women and Emmeline. She also penned the story of psychiatrist Lulu Shinefeld and her patient Dawn in August, but her best known work was inspired by the murder of schoolteacher Roseann Quinn. FTP, name this author who wrote a cautionary book about the singles scene, Looking for Mr. Goodbar.
Judith Rossner
9

139951-)
The protagonist resolves himself "into a singular Committee of Ways and Means" at the beginning of this work to solve a problem. At one point, the protagonist says "don't you want to come and play in my yard?" to a woman while playing the role of a "masher." The final line in this work is "three months on the island," a sentence handed down to the protagonist. FTP, name this O. Henry short story about Soapy's attempts to get put in prison.
"The Cop and the Anthem"
9

139954-)
The creator of this character was married to the first American woman to win an Olympic gold medal, the golfer Margaret Abbott. He appeared in a collection of works entitled [This Character] in Peace and War and was noted for coining the phrase "the newspaper comforts the afflicted and afflicts the comfortable," as well as gingerly noting that "politics ain't beanbag." FTP, name this creation of Finley Peter Dunne, an Irishman who made fun of politicians.
Mr. Dooley (accept Finley Peter Dunne before mentioned)
9

139957-)
One character in this work keeps a journal where she lists four different types of husbands, but then ends the document by writing "FINIS." Another character is the grandson of a Civil War Major, who disinherits him for drunkenness.  During World War I, the protagonist has an affair with "Dot" Raycroft, but eventually reconciles with his wife, Gloria. FTP, name this work about the tragic marriage of Anthony Patch, the second novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Beautiful and Damned
9

139959-)
The Unabomber sent a copy of this man's book Ice Brothers to the president of United Airlines to disguise a bomb. One of his works describes dissipated cartoonist Nathan Bond, while another examines former teen lovers Ken and Sylvia and inspired a famous Percy Faith instrumental. Besides A Sense of Values and A Summer Place, he is best known for describing frustrated commuter Tom Rath. FTP, name this author of The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit.
Sloan Wilson
9

139960-)
The film adaptation of this work avoided having to name the country where it was set by having native characters speak Esperanto. Two characters in this work had an affair in Omaha, while supporting characters include the pacifist Quillery and the munitions manufacturer Achille Weber. This work's film adaptation featured Clark Gable singing "Puttin' on the Ritz" while playing vaudevillian Harry Van. FTP, name this Robert Sherwood play set in an Alpine hotel.
Idiot's Delight
9

139962-)
Supporting characters in this work include Tommy Davis, who acquires a photo painting another character as homosexual.  A villainous character is Fred Van Ackerman, who is the head of a group named COMFORT. Climaxing with the suicide of Brigham Anderson, the defeat of Bob Leffingwell, and the ascension of Harley Hudson to the presidency, FTP, name this work defended as "Pulitzer-winning trash lit" by Ken Jennings, a novel by Allen Drury.
Advise and Consent
9

139965-)
This man once went to the Sargasso Sea to untie the shoe laces of squids. Other occupations for this man have included supervising squads of ragpickers and paperjacks.  This character was named by Corey Ford, and a 2009 contest imagined this man dressed like a New York Met, outfitted like Buddha, and also hanging himself. Possibly based on a drawing of Count D'Orsay, FTP, name this man first glimpsed observing a butterfly, the mascot of the New Yorker.
Eustace Tilley (accept either)
9

139968-)
The protagonist of this work describes mosquitoes, saying "they can't hurt my feelings, for they lay under the skin." The protagonist runs a farm where beets are confused for "cedar stumps," while the framing scenes of this story are set on the steamboat "Invincible." The protagonist describes the titular creature, ultimately concluding he was "unhuntable," and also promotes his home state as "without a fault." FTP, name this comical T.B. Thorpe story about a gigantic bruin.
"The Big Bear of Arkansas"
9

139969-)
This man wrote about a disturbed Marine psychiatrist in Twinkle, Twinkle, "Killer" Kane, which he later reworked as the novel and film The Ninth Configuration. He also wrote a comic spoof about a bumbling U-2 pilot who becomes a football coach in the Arab country Fawzia. Besides John Goldfarb, Please Come Home, he is best known for writing about Lankester Merrin and Damian Karras' attempts to heal young Regan MacNeil. FTP, name this author of The Exorcist.
William Peter Blatty
9

139970-)
This author created a Korean War veteran who had his sleep center destroyed and was eventually cryogenically frozen. He created a man obsessed with Nero Wolfe, the employer of Chip Harrison. Besides Evan Tanner and Leo Haig, he also created the lonely hit man Keller and the genial burglar Bernie Rhodenbarr, while his most famous character recently appeared in All the Flowers Are Dying. FTP, name this mystery author who created ex-cop Matthew Scudder.
Lawrence Block
9

139972-)
At one point in this work, the protagonist sadly describes another character as being turned into "a moral speed freak" without her "granny glasses." That character is also described as being in the state of the 13th Zodiac sign, the "Starfish." Near the end of this work, the protagonist goes to Disneyland and meets with Selig Mindish, who knew his parents. FTP, name this E.L. Doctorow work about the son of Paul and Rochelle Isaacson, who are based on the Rosenbergs.
The Book of Daniel
9

139973-)
A fictional example of this group is director of European sales for American Express and is named D. Ray Morton. Another example is the "insane" couple, Bruce and Harriett Nyborg." An infamous example of this group wouldn't sign if "fuckin' Shiva handed him a million dollars," while the only member of this group to appear in person is James Lingk. FTP, name this group of characters perhaps interested in the real estate offered in a certain David Mamet play.
Clients in Glengarry Glen Ross (accept Leads in Glengarry Glen Ross, accept Characters in Glengarry Glen Ross before "characters" is mentioned, accept any obvious equivalents)
9

139975-)
Julie Salamon's book The Devil's Candy details the making of the film adaptation of this work. At the end of this work, one character condemns the immoral actions of "Abe Weiss, Reginald Bacon, and Peter Fallow of The City Light," referencing a British journalist, a Bronx DA, and a black minister. FTP, name this work about so-called "Master of the Universe" Sherman McCoy, a novel by Tom Wolfe whose name references the work of Savonarola. 
The Bonfire of the Vanities
9

139978-)
At one point in this work, the protagonist has an abortion and later names the unborn child "Pride." One sequence sees the protagonist working at Copperhead Gap Prison until compromising photos force her to resign, although she later writes a best-selling expose of the prison industry. Eventually, the protagonist has a son with a corrupt New York judge named Barney Dolphin. FTP, name this work about the titular crusading feminist, a novel by Sinclair Lewis.
Ann Vickers
9

139979-)
The first winner of this award was a novel about Irish teen Bernadette Kennedy, by Melvyn Bragg entitled A Time to Dance. Other winners of this award include Tom Wolfe and Norman Mailer, for I Am Charlotte Simmons and The Castle in the Forest respectively. In 2008, John Updike won a Lifetime Achievement version of this award. FTP, name this Literary Review award recently given to Rachel Johnson's Shire Hell due to its disturbing metaphors regarding a character's penis.
Bad Sex in Fiction Award (prompt on Literary Review award, accept basic equivalents, do not accept just plain Bad Fiction Award)
9

139980-)
A plot contrivance in this work involves several blacks erroneously believing that Nathan Bedford Forrest defeated the Union armies. The protagonist of this work hails from a small town on the Mississippi named Hades, while a family in this work descended from George Washington and consists of children Jasmine, Kismine, and Percy. John Unger journeys into a hidden Montana land in, FTP, what F. Scott Fitzgerald story about a very big gem?
"Diamond as Big as the Ritz"
9

139984-)
One character in this work toils away at an icehouse and greatly enjoys ripping the pages off the calendar, while another character is nicknamed "fixer" and once went through the process of going "from monkey to zero." Besides Stash Koskoska and Nifty Louie, this work also features a titular character who ends the work by hanging himself at a flophouse. FTP, name this work about the tragic Frankie Machine, the titular junkie, a novel by Nelson Algren. 
The Man With the Golden Arm
9

139987-)
At one point in this work, the protagonist discards a letter after reading the word "grandmother." At the end of this work, the protagonist knocks the glass eye out of one villain and induces another to have a bowel movement in his pants. The protagonist of this work was partially inspired by Eddie Waitkus, who was shot in 1949 by Ruth Ann Steinhagen. FTP, name this work by Bernard Malamud about a player for the New York Knights named Roy Hobbs.
The Natural
9

139991-)
One of this man's works is about a girl studying Nazism, whose mentor once had an affair with Henry Kissinger, while another play sees Howard and Judy persecuted by a fascist Western government. Besides Aunt Dan and Lemon and The Designated Mourner, this man starred in a Louis Malle film which sees him having a conversation with a frequent director of his plays. FTP, name this short star of My Dinner With Andre, who also played Vizzini in The Princess Bride.
Wallace Shawn
9

139995-)
A 1958 film adaptation of this work featured such future TV stars as Jack Lord, Tina Louise, and Michael Landon. That film opened with the character Pluto Swint working a pump for a woman in an outdoor bathtub. One character recruits the albino Dave Dawson in order to basically serve as a human divining rod, while male characters lust after Darling Jill and Griselda. FTP, name this work about Ty Ty digging for gold on his property, a notoriously racy book by Erskine Caldwell.
God's Little Acre
9

139996-)
A TV series based on this work starred Scoey Mitchell and Tracy Reed, giving an all-black spin on the original play. Besides the four major parts, the only other characters are that of a delivery man and a telephone man. The female lead attempts to set up her mother with neighbor Victor Velasco, while her husband is irritated with climbing six flights of stairs to the apartment. FTP, name this Neil Simon comedy about impulsive Corie and her inhibited husband Paul.
Barefoot in the Park
9

139998-)
In order to research youth gangs, this man joined a Brooklyn gang under the alias "Cheech Beldone." One of his works tells the story of Vic and his companion Blood, while in another, the computer AM tortures the last survivors on Earth. FTP, name this sci-fi author of an episode of Star Trek featuring time travel and Edith Keeler entitled "City on the Edge of Forever," as well as the books I Have No Mouth and Must Scream, A Boy and His Dog, noted for being a real dick.
Harlan Ellison
9

139999-)
This author wrote an autobiographical study about reading one hundred books in Thirteen Ways of Looking at the Novel.  She wrote about the denizens of the titular Midwestern university, including Chairman X and a pig named Earl Butz, in her work Moo, while her best known work focuses on aging farmer Larry Cook and his three daughters. FTP, name this author who won the 1992 Pulitzer Prize for Fiction by adapting King Lear to an Iowa farm in A Thousand Acres.
Jane Smiley
9

140003-)
Chapters in this work focus on devout Methodist Milly Edmondson, while another chapter describes the tragic death of Emily Russell. This work concludes with a chapter entitled "What is to Be Done?", where the author urges the American church to eliminate "a disastrous spot of dim eclipse." Beginning with chapters analyzing Mr. Haley and the St. Clares, along with Eliza and Topsy, FTP, name this Harriet Beecher Stowe work meant to defend her best known novel.
The Key to Uncle Tom's Cabin: Presenting the Original Facts and Documents Upon Which the Story Is Founded, Together with Corroborative Statements Verifying the Truth of the Work
9

140005-)
One character in this work is a black preacher who has learned the Masonic hand signal after journeying to Europe and is named Tobe Sutterfield. Another character once served in the Sahara, where he surrendered a legionnaire to tribal justice. This work ends with the Runner disrupting that character's memorial service by throwing a medal. FTP, name this William Faulkner work about a Christ-like Corporal who spreads pacifism during World War I.
A Fable
9

140006-)
As a child, this man started an amateur journal about stamp collecting and would later write a treatise about raising chickens entitled The Book of the Hamburgs. On stage, he wrote and acted in the melodrama The Maid of Arran and would later write the collections Mother Goose in Prose and Father Goose, His Book.  The author of The Master Key: An Electric Fairy Tale, FTP, name this author who inspired a TV show about prison life by creating the land called Oz.
L. Frank Baum
9

140007-)
The speaker in one of this man's poems says he keeps "rising and singing with my last breath" and notes there is a "hand on my unborn wing," while another of this man's poems was inspired by the death of a stewardess who fell out of an airplane in flight. Besides "Falling" and "Drowning with Others," this man played a sheriff in a 1972 film adaptation of his novel about tourists stalked by backwoods sodomites. FTP, name this author of Deliverance.
James Dickey
9

140008-)
One character in this play writes a script about a psychiatrist meeting a prostitute after a mix-up involving a couch. That character is later pummeled by football player Brock Brannigan in a fight over Brannigan's wife, Rita Marlowe. The film version of this work starred Tony Randall as the titular character, who never appears in the play. FTP, name this George Axelrod play about magazine writer George MacCauley, who wrote an interview which posed the titular question.
Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?
9

140009-)
One character in this work is a dwarfish retainer who is over a hundred years old and is named Jesus Fever. Another character in this work communicates by rolling tennis balls across the floor. This work is noted for the Harold Halma photograph of its author on its back cover in a suggestive pose. Featuring the "queer lady" who watches from a window of Skully's Landing, FTP, identify this semi-autobiographical work about Joel Knox, a novel by Truman Capote.
Other Voices, Other Rooms
9

140010-)
Singer Jamie Walters claimed he was up for a role in the movie adaptation of this work and even went to Dustin Hoffman's house to audition. The author of this work used the titular character's name in a story about "The Songs" of a folksinger with the same name. The titular character has an affair with Drew Preston and observes Attorney General Thomas Dewey. FTP, name this E.L. Doctorow work about the titular young "gofer" for gangster Dutch Schultz.
Billy Bathgate
9

140011-)
This poem takes place on a "pleasant morn of the early fall," in a location full of apple and peach trees, which appear "fair as the garden of the Lord" to one group of characters. Set in the town of Frederick, Maryland, the climax of this work features a "blush of shame" coming over Stonewall Jackson. FTP, name this poem which features the famous line "Shoot, if you must, this old gray head," a Whittier poem about the titular woman who defends the flag.
"Barbara Fritchie"
9

140012-)
At one point, the narrator of this work becomes caught in a storm where a "great light" falls upon him and he experiences a "new sense of knowledge." One character in this work quotes Herbert Spencer's "definition of Life," while another is Mr. Haley, a workman for the titular character. Another character resembles a gorilla and wears a crimson fez and ultimately strangles his owner. FTP, name this Ambrose Bierce story about a chess-playing robot.
"Moxon's Master"
9

140013-)
This man once had an affair with the wife of Robert Porterfield, prompting a gunfight in which this author shot Porterfield above the eye. He had a home in the Catskills dubbed the "Eagle's Nest," and served a year of hard labor for his role in inciting the nativist Astor Place Riot. Taking his famous alias from a nautical term, this man wrote a play called Scouts of the Prairie, which starred his collaborator, Buffalo Bill Cody. FTP, name this famous author of western dime novels.
Ned Buntline (accept E.Z. Judson
9

140015-)
An incident in this story involves a letter written to Congressman Franconi, praising the protagonist, while supporting characters in this story are Mickey Halpern and Larry Fishbein. Near the end of this story, the protagonist angrily reacts when he discovers egg rolls instead of the expected gefilte fish. FTP, name this Philip Roth story about Grossbart's attempts to take advantage of fellow Jew Sgt. Marx while both are stationed at Camp Crowder during WWII.
"Defender of the Faith"
9

140018-)
George M. Cohan adapted one of this man's works into a stage play and starred in a 1917 version of this man's mystery novel Seven Keys to Baldpate. His most famous character first appeared in House Without a Key, which sees John Winterslip move from Boston to Hawaii and become involved in a murder. FTP, name this man who created a detective played on film by Sidney Toler and Warner Orland, the creator of Charlie Chan.
Earl Derr Biggers
9

140021-)
One of his works describes how the Wandering Jew entered the service of Mohammed II before the fall of Constantinople, while he also wrote a poem relating how the founder of the Ottoman Empire won his bride. Besides The Prince of India and The Wooing of Malkatoon, he wrote the campaign biography of Benjamin Harrison and a more famous novel subtitled A Tale of the Christ. FTP, name this Governor of New Mexico, Civil War general and author of Ben-Hur.
Lew Wallace
9

140022-)
In the "NewsRadio" episode set in the future, Jimmy gives everyone a book with this title, while this book is also seen at the very end of The Naked Gun 2 Â½.  A key discovery in the most famous work of this name is made by the Russian Gregori, while an adaptation of this work has Pat relay the discovery, too late, to Mr. Chambers. Featuring the pig-faced Kanamit, who were made giants on the "Twilight Zone" adaptation, FTP, name this Damon Knight story about an alien cookbook.
"To Serve Man" (accept "How to Serve Man")
9

140023-)
This man wrote the highest grossing comedy performed at the Purple Rose Theater, Duck Hunter Shoots Angel.  While he worked as a piano player on Crete and has written such songs as "Hit Somebody (The Hockey Song)," he is best known for creating such characters as deceased amusement park worker Eddie, as well as writing about his dying sociology professor. FTP, name this author of The Five People You Meet in Heaven and Tuesdays With Morrie.
Mitch Albom
9

140032-)
This man collaborated with George Kaufman to write a play about aspiring lyricist Fred Stevens entitled June Moon. Some of his other characters include the excuse-making Frank Farrell and the semi-literate Jack Keefe. Played by John Sayles in the movie Eight Men Out, FTP, identify this father of one of the Hollywood Ten, a humorist best known for such baseball-inspired works as the comedic Alibi Ike and the epistolary You Know Me, Al.
Ring Lardner Sr. (do not accept Ring Lardner Jr.)
9

140033-)
This author worked on the mayoral campaign of Carl Zeidler and in his autobiography, he claims to have invented the practice of dropping balloons from the ceiling. He created a humorous character named Lefty Feep in several of his short stories, and revisited the Whitechapel murders in his story "Yours Truly, Jack the Ripper." FTP, name this horror author best known for writing about the death of Mary Crane at the hands of Norman Bates in the novel Psycho.
Robert Bloch
9

140034-)
A revival of this work changed the protagonist's last name to "Wellington" and made his brother a worker for CORE. The revival of this work was also a musical with songs like "Don't Forget 127th Street" and its plot featured an interracial romance. That revival starred Sammy Davis Jr. as a would-be surgeon, while the original version of this work featured the protagonist as a violinist. FTP, name this play about Joe Bonaparte, a story of boxing by Clifford Odets.
Golden Boy
9

140035-)
The protagonist of this work writes a story about Hawaii entitled "Wiki-Wiki," saying he "must write life" as he sees it. At one point, he laments the horrible machinelike process of receiving rejection slips, and concludes the novel by reading Swinburne aboard the ship Mariposa. Featuring the titular character's failed attempts to woo tutor Ruth Morse and ending with his suicide by drowning, FTP, name this Jack London novel about the titular struggling author.
Martin Eden
9

140036-)
A scene in this work sees dogs rip a fugitive from a chain gang to pieces off stage, partially explaining why the film adaptation of this work is entitled The Fugitive Kind. One character, the religious zealot Vee Talbott, sees the "blazing eyes of Jesus Christ," while the main character is ultimately killed by a mob, leaving only his snakeskin jacket behind. FTP, name this play about singer Val Xavier's arrival in a small Southern town, a Greek-named work by Tennessee Williams.
Orpheus Descending
9

140037-)
Susie Coffman's collection Follow Your Stars contains new stories about this character, while Robert Mitchum made his debut in a film featuring this character. Jay Gatsby wrote his schedule in a book about this character, who made his debut in the 1907 novel Bar 20. This man rode the white horse Topper. and in the song "It's Beginning to Look a Lot Like Christmas," Barney wants this man's boots. FTP, name this Clarence Mulford-created cowboy noted for his distinctive gait.
Hopalong Cassidy (accept either, also accept either part of Bill Cassidy)
9

140039-)
The inscription on this man's grave includes the lines "And what did you want? To call myself beloved," from his poem "Late Fragment." He wrote about a woman's reaction to a girl's murder in "So Much Water So Close to Home," which was turned into the film Jindabyne, while the film Short Cuts adapts nine of this man's stories. FTP, name this minimalist, "dirty realist" author whose story collections include Will You Please Be Quiet, Please? and Cathedral.
Raymond Carver
9

140042-)
As a youngster, this man translated 10,000 copies of his school newspaper into Russian and sent them to Soviet schoolboys. In The Stepford Wives, Nicole Kidman unsuccessfully tries to get her book club to discuss this man's works, while the work The Road from the Past is a historical travel book by his wife, Ina. Currently working on the last of his four-part biography of Lyndon Johnson, FTP, name this author of the Robert Moses biography The Power Broker.
Robert Caro
9

140045-)
It's not Trek-related, but Leonard Nimoy directed a radio adaptation of this work that starred Armin Shimerman and John de Lancie. The main characters in this work are betrayed by a native named Gomez, who is furious at anti-slavery opponent Lord John Roxton. Also featuring reporter Edward Malone and the "devoted Negro" Zambo, FTP, identify this first work in the Professor Challenger series, an Arthur Conan Doyle work about a land of dinosaurs.
The Lost World
9

140046-)
This author was Oscar-nominated for writing the screenplay for a Loretta Young film, Come to the Stable. This author commissioned a painting of her friend Dorothy Hale, but was horrified to find that Frieda Kahlo painted Hale's suicide. Her most famous work was made into a 2008 movie by Diane English, which starred Meg Ryan and Annette Bening, among others, as the titular characters. FTP, name this author of The Women and wife of Time publisher Henry.
Clare Boothe Luce (accept either)
9

140047-)
In one appearance, this character meets a teenager named Frank Pierson, who has killed his father and eventually kills himself. This character's final appearance is in a work entitled [This Character] Under Water and he spends most of his appearances living on an estate called Belle Ombre. In his first appearance, he murders Freddie Miles and Dickie Greenleaf. FTP, name this Patricia Highsmith character who, like Matt Weiner, is very "talented" despite being a criminal.
Tom Ripley (accept either, accept The Talented Mr. Ripley)
9

140048-)
This author wrote a 1998 article titled "Life's Swell," which ultimately inspired the surfing film Blue Crush. Her most famous work is set in the Fakahatchee Strand State Preserve and tells the story of a man hired by the Seminoles named John Laroche. That work was turned into a 2002 film by Spike Jonze which featured Nicolas Cage in a dual role. FTP, name this New Yorker journalist and author of The Orchid Thief, played by Meryl Streep in the film Adaptation.
Susan Orlean
9

140049-)
One of this author's works deals with the harsh football coach of Messina High School, Eddie Rake, while another features struggling cotton farmer Luke Chandler. This man also wrote a comedic novel about Luther and Nora Krank's attempt to go on a cruise entitled Skipping Christmas. Besides Bleachers and A Painted House, he is best known for creating characters like Darby Shaw and Mitch McDeere. FTP, name this author of the legal thrillers The Pelican Brief and The Firm.
John Grisham
9

140051-)
This man wrote a sympathetic account of a character from Oliver Twist entitled Fagin the Jew. He collected such short stories as "The Super" and "Cookalein" in a collection about a Bronx tenement, A Contract with God, which was billed as one of the first graphic novels. His most famous creation uses the real name of Denny Colt and was recently featured in a Frank Miller film. FTP, name this creator of The Spirit and the namesake of a prestigious comic industry award.
Will Eisner
9

140052-)
In 1940, George Orwell called this man "a sort of Whitman among the corpses." This man has been played on film by Rip Torn and Fred Ward, the latter of which was in the first-ever NC-17-rated film. One episode of "Seinfeld" saw a library cop bust Jerry for never returning a copy of one of this man's works. His most famous work was the subject of the case Grove Press, Inc. v. Gerstein, which judged it to not be obscenity. FTP, name this author of Tropic of Cancer.
Henry Miller
9

140053-)
One crucial event in this novel involves the shooting of a mule that refuses to move from the road. An Atlantic Monthly article advocating "Supremacy by Stealth" called for American soldiers to emulate the protagonist of this novel. The end of this work features the protagonist being relieved from duty, but not before Joppolo has helped the people obtain the titular symbol of unity. FTP, name this John Hersey novel about the American occupation of an Italian town.
A Bell for Adano
9

140054-)
This novel was adapted with a completely different protagonist in the B-film The Falcon Takes Over. A vicious cop who beats the protagonist in this work is named "Hemingway," and the action begins when a bouncer is killed at a black bar. Ending when Mrs. Grayle, alias Velma, kills herself, after previously killing her ex-boyfriend Moose Malloy, FTP, name this Raymond Chandler novel, the follow-up to The Big Sleep and the second to feature Philip Marlowe.
Farewell, My Lovely
9

140055-)
Near the beginning of this story, the protagonist is mocked, leading him to muse that "even the barber's boys laugh at you." He continually asks a question about the titular character, but eventually asks the way to the ferry instead. This story climaxes with what appears to be "prodigious merrymaking," but eventually turns out to be the titular character tarred and feathered. FTP, name this Hawthorne story about Robin's search for his disgraced relative.
"My Kinsman, Major Molineux"
9

140058-)
ne character in this work is the star of the movie Devils' Deputy named Vee Tracy, who is hired to keep the protagonist busy by Vernon Roscoe. Another character spent time in Siberia and says the Communist slogan before dying, although it is falsely reported he converted to Christianity. Featuring the free thinking Paul Watkins and his friend Bunny, FTP, name this work satirizing the titular industry by Upton Sinclair, loosely adapted into the film There Will Be Blood.
Oil!
9

140060-)
This work features illustrations from a Vanity Fair cartoonist named Miguel Covarrubias. This work was produced with funding from the wealthy Charlotte Osgood Mason. The first half of the book features such chapters as "John and the Frog," while the second half features a large section on Marie Leveau. Divided into "Folklore" and "Hoodoo," and featuring a prologue by Franz Boas, FTP, name this Zora Neale Hurston work collecting African-American folk culture.
Mules and Men
9

140061-)
This author was accused of plagiarizing the story "Mrs. Adis" for her story about Annie Poole sheltering Jim Hammer entitled "Sanctuary." This author worked as a children's librarian in Manhattan before writing a work which ends when Clare Kendry falls out of a window, possibly after being pushed by Irene Redfield. Another of her works describes Helga Crane, who has a Danish mother and a black father. FTP, name this author of the novels Passing and Quicksand. 
Nella Larsen
9

140062-)
One character in this work is Edgar Quisenberry, who eventually commits suicide. The president in this work is Josephine Vanbruuker-Brown, who gives an order regarding martial law.  A key decision by Mark Bragg results in a crucial ninety-five seconds needed after the destruction of such cities as Miami and Tampa. FTP, Fort Repose is the setting of what post-apocalyptic work by Pat Frank, which takes its name from a judgment in Revelation 18?
Alas, Babylon
9

140063-)
This story is referenced in the Kipling story "In the House of Suddhoo," when the narrator tries to describe the horror of hearing a ghostly voice. The titular character has translated "Gargantua" into Polish and is dying of "phthisis." The narrator asks the titular character if he is asleep or feels pain. Ending when the titular character crumbles into putrescence, FTP, name this Edgar Allan Poe story about a man hypnotized at the moment of death.
: "The Facts in the Case of M. Valdemar" (accept "Facts in M. Valdemar's Case" or "The Last Days of M. Valdemar" or "Mesmerism in Articulo Mortis")
9

140064-)
During the 2008-09 season, Brad Childress recounted this work to the Vikings, but mistook the author to be George Orwell. After describing the titular image, this work goes on to recount stories in California, Pennsylvania, and Massachusetts, including that of Sutter's mill and the oil at Titusville. Featuring the famous line "It is your duty to get rich" and beginning with a story about Ali Hafed's search for treasure, FTP, name this Russell Conwell speech about finding riches in our own backyards.
"Acres of Diamonds"
9

140070-)
This author described talent agent Jerry Wexler and former would-be dancer Enid Pollack in his semi-autobiographical The Floating Light Bulb. In another work, a New Jersey family becomes trapped in an embassy beyond the Iron Curtain after taking illegal photos. Besides Don't Drink the Water, he wrote a play where Allan Felix receives romantic advice from Humphrey Bogart's ghost. FTP, name this author of Play It Again, Sam, who also directed the movie Annie Hall.
Woody Allen
9

140072-)
One of this author's works sees Mrs. Larue and her son forced to work as menials in a diner run by mobster "Poison Eddie," thanks to the titular witch. Besides Mrs. McThing, her best known work features the protagonist threatened with "Formula 977" before a taxi driver points out that it will turn him into a "normal human being." FTP, name this author who wrote a play about Veda and her brother Elwood, who sees the gigantic titular rabbit, Harvey.
Mary Chase
9

140073-)
In his "Ten Rules of Writing," this man states that "if it sounds like writing, I rewrite it." This man has inspired such obscure films as Charles Bronson's Mr. Majestyk and the evangelical satire Touch.  He created a thief from Michigan named Jack Ryan and wrote such westerns as Hombre and 3:10 to Yuma. FTP, name this crime author who wrote The Big Bounce, created marshal Karen Sisco in Out of Sight, and satirized the movie industry in Be Cool and Get Shorty.
Elmore Leonard
9

140077-)
One of this author's poems is dedicated to a friendship prized "above the treasures of the Main" and is entitled "To my Burrissa." Another of this author's poems is a response to a jest calling women "books." This author's works are collected in a volume entitled Only for the Eye of a Friend, and she was known as the Duchess of Morven, after her Princeton estate. FTP, name this early American poetess, the wife of Founding Father Richard.
Annis Stockton
9

140079-)
This man's daughter wrote the memoir A Soldier's Daughter Never Cries. Using funding obtained from his first novel, this man helped found a group in Marshall, Illinois, titled the "Handy Writer's Colony." His second novel is about would-be writer Dave Hirsh and gambler Bama Dillert. Besides Some Came Running, he is known for works set during the Battle of Guadalcanal and Pearl Harbor. FTP, name this author of the novels The Thin Red Line and From Here to Eternity.
James Jones
9

140080-)
One character in this work is Fred, a member of the Christian Front, who was played in a 2001 movie adaptation by Meat Loaf. The protagonist eventually marries Gertrude Hart, and this work ends when a police offer ask the protagonist "How many of you people live there?" Featuring a character modeled on Father Charles Coughlin, FTP, name this work about Newman's new glasses causing him to look Jewish, a novel by Arthur Miller.
Focus
9

140081-)
A dog in this work named Sorrow dies and is stuffed, which causes one character to have a heart attack. Another character kills herself and leaves a note saying "Sorry, just not big enough." Denizens of the titular location include Susie, a girl in a bear suit, and Ernst, a radical who resembles rapist quarterback Chipper Dove. Featuring the story of John, Franny, and the other Berrys, FTP, name this John Irving novel featuring a titular New England establishment.
The Hotel New Hampshire
9

140083-)
This author assailed populist socialism in a trilogy which included The One Woman, Comrades, and The Root of Evil, while his novel The Foolish Virgin attacks women's suffrage. His most famous work sees Marion Lenoir jump to her death, and features its hero fall in love with the daughter of Senator Austin Stoneman. FTP, name this author who told the story of Ben Cameron and his heroic white brethren in The Clansman, later adapted into The Birth of a Nation.
Thomas Dixon Jr.
9

140085-)
In one of this man's works, he relates the death of Scott Fischer, a rival of Rob Hall, while another tells the story of Ron and Dan Lafferty, who followed the teachings of the prophet Onias. His best known work is the biography of Christopher McCandless, who died in the Alaska wilderness. FTP, name this author who explored Mormonism in Under the Banner of Heaven, mountain climbing in Into Thin Air, and also wrote the bestseller Into the Wild.
Jon Krakauer
9

140086-)
The titular figure in this poem bows his head and "thinks of men and kings," and wishes for a time where "a league of sober folk" shall bring "long peace to Cornland, Alp, and Sea." The titular figure is also described as "bronzed" and "lank," and is distraught by the sins of the war-lords and the weeping in homesteads. FTP, name this poem about a figure pacing, who "cannot sleep upon his hillside," a Vachel Lindsay work about a certain somnambulist U.S. President.
"Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight"
9

140087-)
According to the author of this work, he sold the movie rights for "about $12 and a mess of porridge." Matthew Perry made his stage debut in this work, which ends with Danny and Bernard ogling women after the former's break-up with Deborah. Adapted into the film About Last NightÂ…, FTP, name this David Mamet work which hopefully does not describe the private predilections of the quiz bowl team featuring Michael Arnold and David Seal.
Sexual Perversity in Chicago
9

140091-)
One character in this work goes to the American Artistic Handicrafts store to buy a Mickey Mouse watch for the supposed Swedish industrialist Mr. Baynes. Another character in this work is a truck driver named Joe Cinnadella, who turns out to be a Swiss assassin. A fictional book in this work is The Grasshopper Lies Heavy, which imagines Rexford Tugwell to be president. FTP, name this Philip K. Dick novel that imagines the Axis powers winning World War II.
The Man in the High Castle
9

140092-)
One character in this work steals a Mickey Mouse clock and knows only a few American words, like "Boom!" Another character is a cripple, who discovers a new bird. This book teases that there is a bookie and a bomber amongst its characters, and ends with the revelation that a dead man is still alive and posing as a doorman named McSouthers. FTP, name this  Newberry-winning book by Ellen Raskin about various heirs striving to solve the titular puzzle.
The Westing Game 
9

140097-)
One song in this work includes a chorus that mentions Chaucer, Rabelais, and Balzac. The opening act in this work features a constant refrain about "not knowing the territory," while a well known song from this work denounces the usage of Sen-Sen and the "shameless" ragtime music. Built around a town combating a sinful pool table, FTP, name this Meredith Willson musical about Professor Harold Hill, who cons River City into paying for a youth band.
Mat Burke (the player is Matt Birk, but the pronunciation is the same)
9

140098-)
At one point in this character's life, he discovered a gold mine in Arizona with his partner James Powell. He later sets up an estate on the Hudson River, although he originally hailed from Virginia and served in the Confederate Army. Thought killed by Apaches, this man actually began a series of adventures with Dejah Thoris and his children, Carthoris and Tara. FTP, name this hero of Barsoom, also known as the planet Mars, an Edgar Rice Burroughs character.
John Carter (accept either), accept Uncle Jack
9

140099-)
A sequel to this work involves a man identifying his wife under the threat of "The Discourager of Hesitancy." This story features a character who is "bland and genial," but "semi-barbaric" in nature. That character possesses a daughter whose affair prompts the main action to occur. The climax of this story features a character gesturing to the right after "anguish deliberation." FTP, name this Frank Stockton story about the titular dilemma facing a hapless prisoner.
The Lady or the Tiger?
9

140100-)
This author served as the dean of the College of Business at the University of Northern Iowa for about six years in the 1980's. He described Clayton Price, Maria de la Luz Santos, and Danny Pastor making a run for the U.S. border in Puerto Vallarta Squeeze, while he wrote a sequel to his most famous work titled A Thousand Country Roads. FTP, name this author who described photographer Robert Kincaid's passionate love affair in The Bridges of Madison County.
Robert James Waller
9

140101-)
This author has cited as an influence the novels of Arthur Upfield, who wrote about a detective named Napoleon "Bony" Bonaparte. One of this man's characters had romances with teacher Mary Landon and lawyer Janet Pete before marrying Bernadette Manuelito, while another's name was reportedly inspired by Minoan bull jumping practices. FTP, name this mystery author who created Jim Chee and Joe Leaphorn in his series about the Navajo Tribal Police.
Tony Hillerman
9

140103-)
This story was adapted into a 1942 Rita Hayworth musical entitled My Gal Sal, which was a song written by the titular character. The titular character also wrote a song entitled "On the Banks of the Wabash, Far Away," the state song of Indiana. The story itself lovingly notes the titular character's self-destructive generosity and was included in the collection Twelve Men. FTP, name this Theodore Dreiser work about his songwriting sibling, not written by Greg Gauthier.
"My Brother Paul"
9

140105-)
A film adaptation of this work features Donald Sutherland as Christ, and clips of the film were used in the music video for Metallica's song "One." The main character remembers his girlfriend Kareen and his experiences using Morse code to talk with Bill Harper. His chief desire at the end of this work is to join a "new Barnum" and be put on display as the "deadman-who-is-alive." FTP, name this work by Dalton Trumbo, an anti-war work about a severely disabled veteran.
Johnny Got His Gun
9

140108-)
Near the end of this work, the titular character imagines herself being taken by two birds to a farmhouse where she meets three deceased characters. That character's father once viewed the brutal murder of logger Wesley Everest in Centralia and is himself killed at Guernica. The titular character fails to earn the Akiva Award, but is comforted by the spirit of Jakob Daw. FTP, name this Chaim Potok work about the daughter of radicals, who keeps an instrument on her door.
Davita's Harp
9

140110-)
The Jackie Chan film Miracles about a country boy who aids a poor flower seller is based on one of this man's short stories, as is a Shirley Temple film about a girl sent to live with a bookie. Besides "Madame La Gimp" and "Little Miss Marker," this man wrote about boxing and coined the term "Cinderella Man" for James Braddock. FTP, name this author, who created Big Jule and Nathan Detroit in a series of highly colloquial stories that inspired the musical Guys and Dolls.
Damon Runyon
9

140111-)
Under the name "Wesley Winfield," this character was played by Billy Gray in two Doris Day musicals, On Moonlight Bay and By the Light of the Silvery Moon. Billy Hayes played this character in a series of shorts with names like Hot Dog and Snakes Alive. This character once took the identity of "notted" sleuth George B. Jasper, and his best friend is Sam Williams. FTP, name this delightful young scamp who appears in a series of novels by Booth Tarkington.
Penrod Schofield (accept either)
9

140113-)
This work shares its name with a 1949 Robert Ryan film also known as The Woman on Pier 13. One character in this work is based on the author of the book Leaving a Doll's House, while another character is a ditch digger turned radio performer named "Iron Rinn." The villainess of this piece is likely based on the author's ex-wife, Claire Bloom, and is an actress named Eve Frame. FTP, name this Philip Roth work where Eve reveals her husband's socialist past.
I Married a Communist (accept The Woman on Pier 13 before mentioned, also accept Beautiful But Dangerous until the end of the second line)
9

140115-)
After graduating from Drake University, this author worked as a reporter to cover the murder of John Hossack, which would inspire later works. This author penned the biography The Road to the Temple about George Cram Cook, the founder of the Provincetown Players and her husband.FTP, name this author  best known for fictionalizing the Hossack murder as a case involving a murdered canary in "A Jury of Her Peers" and in the one-act play "Trifles."
Susan Glaspell
9

140116-)
The protagonist of this work angrily muses on "this physical education nonsense" while at college and shows her displeasure by destroying a hurdle. Later, the protagonist wins $1,000 for writing an essay entitled "What the College Has Done for Me." The protagonist eventually falls in love with Principal Hugo Selig, much to the displeasure of her Orthodox father Moses. FTP, name this novel about Sara Smolinsky, a Jewish coming-of-age novel by Anzia Yezierska.
Bread Givers
9

140117-)
This man's father created Safed the Sage, who whimsically pondered ethical questions in a Congregationalist magazine. This man represented the so-called "Silk Stocking Seventeenth" district of Manhattan in Congress, but his later Senate campaign was hampered by FDR lumping this man together with Joe Martin and Hamilton Fish. FTP, name this man best known for labeling Jesus Christ the Founder of Modern Business in the book The Man Nobody Knows.
Bruce Barton
9

140118-)
This author shares his name with a character on The X-Files, a senator who occasionally aided Mulder. In one of his works, Chris Nielsen dies and goes to a heaven-like place called Summerland. His first story deals with a deformed child kept in the basement by his parents. Besides "Born of Man and Woman" and What Dreams May Come, he wrote a book about Robert Neville fighting futuristic vampires. FTP, name this author of I Am Legend.
Richard Matheson
9

140120-)
A minor character in this book is television personality Buster Friendly, who appears on the air 23 hours a day and attacks the philosophy of Wilbur Mercer. Another character is opera singer Luba Luft, who is killed by Phil Resch in an elevator. At the end of this work, the protagonist discovers an apparently live toad, which turns out to be robotic. Featuring Rick Deckard's hunting of Nexus-6 androids, FTP, name this Philip K. Dick work that inspired Blade Runner.
Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep? (do not accept Blade Runner)
9

140123-)
One of this man's works describes the alcohol-fueled goings-on at the Omni Shoreham Hotel in Washington, D.C., while another features a teen computer hacker named Ian Restil. In one of his works, Darrin Davis rats on his parents for their drug possession, a work harshly attacked by D.A.R.E. Eventually dismissed after revelations about " Hack Heaven" and other stories, FTP, name this New Republic journalist fired in 1998 after being caught fabricating articles.
Stephen Glass
9

140124-)
One character in this work is Gilbertson Montrose, a movie scenarist, while another is the wealthy Gus Eisman, who is also known as the "Button King." One of the main characters hails from Little Rock and was once put on trial for shooting her boss. Ending with that character marrying the pious Henry Spoffard, FTP, identify this comic Anita Loos novel about Lorelei Lee, later followed by a sequel entitled But Gentlemen Marry Brunettes.
Gentlemen Prefer Blondes
9

140125-)
This man formed the conservative Patrick Henry League in 1958. One of his works is about Rhysling, a blind songwriter who writes the titular verse before dying, while another work introduced the acronym "TANSTAAFL" or "There Ain't No Such Thing as a Free Lunch." Besides "The Green Hills of Earth" and The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, he is best known for creating Martian-raised Valentine Michael Smith. FTP, name this author of the science-fiction classic Stranger in a Strange Land.
Robert Heinlein
9

140126-)
Under the alias "Jay Scotland," this man wrote such potboilers as I, Barbarian and Sir Scoundrel. He wrote the novelization of Conquest of the Planet of the Apes and one of his more recent books tells the story of railroad tycoon Sam Driver. Besides The Gods of Newport, he is better known for a eight-novel series beginning with The Bastard that described the Kent family and another book about the Hazard and Main families. FTP, name this author of North and South.
John Jakes
9

140127-)
He is not Ken Saro-Wiwa, but his first novel is entitled On a Darkling Plain, while other works include The Losers and The Valley. In 1969, this man wrote a biography of Elmyr de Hory, an art forger, and appeared in the documentary about de Hory filmed by Orson Welles, F for Fake. This man was played by Richard Gere in a 2005 film entitled The Hoax about his most famous work. FTP, name this man who wrote a fraudulent biography of Howard Hughes.
 Clifford Irving
9

140129-)
One character in this work sings "If the only song I can sing is a sad song, I ain't going to sing at all." That character is bathed by the protagonist and is named "Chicken Number Two." The protagonist killed his mean-spirited brother with a fire iron, while his gay lover Jody leaves him and escapes the titular location dressed as an altar boy. FTP, name this John Cheever work about college professor Zeke Farragut, set in the titular New York state prison.
Falconer
9

140131-)
A girl named Laura in this story loves a young man who is a talented pitcher and can sing "Drink to me only with thine eyes." The titular character purchases a pipe and makes fudge for a summer festival. Throughout this story, characters quote "'Tis better to have loved and lost," but mistakenly identify Tennyson as American. Dealing with a husband's suspicions of his wife's faithfulness, FTP, identify this story by Sui Sin Far about the titular Chinese-American woman.
"Mrs. Spring Fragrance"
9

140133-)
The film adaptation of this work featured the Oscar-nominated original song, "A Time for Love."  Supporting characters include Barney Oswald Kelly, who lusts after his daughter, and Shago Martin, a black entertainer and boyfriend of Cherry. Kate Millett, in Sexual Politics, described this book as "an exercise in how to kill your wife and be happy ever after." FTP, name this work about Professor Stephen Rojack, who strangles his wife, a controversial work by Norman Mailer.
An American Dream
9

140134-)
One incident in this work sees the titular character in the park talking with a man known as "the Captain," who praises her mother as "good." The protagonist is taken care of by Miss Overmore, who later marries and becomes Mrs. Beale Farange. Despite the entreaties of Sir Claude, this work ends with the protagonist staying with governess Mrs. Wix. FTP, name this Henry James work about the titular character's struggles after her irresponsible parents divorce and remarry.
What Maisie Knew
9

140136-)
In one scene in this work, a character reads a pamphlet entitled "Chronometricals and Horologicals," written by Plotinus Plinlimmon, who lives in the converted Church of the Apostles, a home to intellectuals. After having a vision of the giant Enceladus, the titular character eventually kills Glen Stanley and commits suicide using his love Isabel's poison. FTP, name this disastrously received novel by Herman Melville about a struggling writer.
Pierre: or, the Ambiguities
9

140139-)
One character in this work is nicknamed "Tylenol" and competes with the titular character for the affections of Joryleen Grant. The protagonist gets a job driving a truck for Excellency Home Furnishings, where he is partnered with Charlie Chehab. While a student at New Prospect High School, the protagonist is counseled by Jack Levy. FTP, name this John Updike novel about the son of Irish and Egyptian parents, Ahmad, who is recruited to bomb the Lincoln Tunnel.
Terrorist
9

140140-)
One character in this work is referred to as a "squeak pig," while another character attempts to desert his position and is executed. Besides Mr. Tweedie and Pumpkin, characters in this work include Dusty and Dove, the latter of whom is responsible for the titular character's disfigurement. Bart Simpson reads this book while home schooled, and historical characters include Paul Revere. FTP, name this Esther Forbes novel set in Revolutionary War-era Boston.
Johnny Tremain (grudgingly accept Johnny Deformed)
9

140142-)
One character in this work never made Eagle Scout and refers to the Public Health merit badge as a real "bitch." That character was the man who dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki and is named Looseleaf Harper. The titular character appears in Heaven with the "Beast of Yugoslavia," a man killed by hunter and soldier Harold Ryan. FTP, name this Kurt Vonnegut play where the sudden return of Ryan to his wife is commented upon by the titular deceased girl.
Happy Birthday, Wanda June
9

140145-)
At the beginning of this work, a character professes to have received his pants from Louis Napoleon and his coat from George Washington. The titular character befriends Frank, calling him a "brick," for giving him a new wardrobe. In one of the final chapters, the titular character rescues a boy who had fallen off the ferry, which leads to a new job and a new name, Richard Hunter. FTP, name this work by Horatio Alger about the titular young bootblack.
Ragged Dick, or Street Life in New York with the Boot-Blacks
9

140149-)
This man wrote essays about "Pissing in a River" and "Thunder Road" in his examination of 31 songs he found meaningful entitled Songbook. He wrote a young adult novel about a kid who idolizes Tony Hawk called Slam, while he has also written about his obsession with the Arsenal Football Club. Some of his characters include phony parent Will Freeman and record store owner Rob Fleming. FTP, name this author of Fever Pitch, High Fidelity, and About a Boy.
Nick Hornby
9

140150-)
In the film adaptation of this work, which was produced by John Wayne's studio, Carl "Alfalfa" Switzer played the Indian Joe Sam, a character who occasionally falls into a trance when worried. This work begins with a character dreaming that he was caught in a blizzard, and both that character, Arthur Bridges, and his brother, Curt, are apparently killed by the titular beast. FTP, name this Walter Van Tillburg Clark book about a family attacked by a killer mountain lion.
The Track of the Cat
9

140151-)
One sequel to this work sees a character marrying and then killing citrus magnate Billy Van Arsdale, while another sequel describes the presidency and eventual assassination of Jimmy Shea, a friend of the titular character. One character in this work is an ex-policeman who kills punks with his flashlight, while the central figure in the sequels by Mark Winegardner is an ex-boxer named Nick Geraci. FTP, name this work by Mario Puzo about the Corleones.
The Godfather (accept Godfather Returns or Godfather's Revenge or The Sicilian)
9

140154-)
This author was played by Linda Hunt in the 1987 film Waiting for the Moon, and in the song "Bosom Buddies" from Mame, this author and her companion are the last duo the singers compare themselves to. A 1968 Peter Sellers film declares I Love You, [This Author]!, a reference to her famous cookbook which included a recipe for hashish fudge. FTP, name this author whose memoir was What is Remembered and not the fictional "autobiography" by Gertrude Stein.
Alice B. Toklas (accept a blitz of Stein and Toklas until "Peter Sellers")
9

140155-)
One work with this name was a comic parody of Ulysses written by William Carlos Williams. Another work with this name tells the story of the Port Ruppert Mundys in the Patriot League and is by Philip Roth. This phrase first appeared in an 1868 John DeForest essay for The Nation, in which DeForest analyzes the works of Hawthorne, Cooper, and Stowe. FTP, name this pretentious designation frequently awarded to novels like The Great Gatsby and Huck Finn.
Great American Novel
9

140156-)
This work ends with "the perfidy of Belcour" punished with being stabbed to death, while the final chapter sees Mrs. Crayton dying in "a striking example that viceÂ…leads only to misery and shame."  The titular character dies in a chapter titled Which People Void of Feeling Not Read, and she was reportedly buried in Trinity Churchyard, New York, prompting mass pilgrimages. FTP, name this Susanna Rowson novel about the sad fate of its female protagonist.
Charlotte Temple or Charlotte: A Tale of Truth 
9

140157-)
The titular character of this work wears overalls that symbolize "slaves and laborers," and his round belly represents his kind nature. He can be summoned by chanting "Drown Their Butts, Crush Their Butts," and uses a weapon that "digs to the truth." Described as "wrathful but calm," the titular character uses a vajra-shovel to put out the fires of greed and war. FTP, name this Gary Snyder poem which posits a certain environmental icon as an incarnation of Buddha.
"Smokey the Bear Sutra"
9

140158-)
Appearing at the beginning of this work is Whitney, a friend of the protagonist. One character owned a dog named Lazarus who drowned in quicksand. That character hums a bit from Madame Butterfly and reads Marcus Aurelius at this story's end before he is interrupted by "a beast at bay." FTP, name this Richard Connell story ending with Sanger Rainsford sleeping in the excellent bed of Count Zaroff, a dude who likes to hunt people.
"The Most Dangerous Game"
9

140159-)
This man wrote a narrative poem about soldiers adjusting to civilian life entitled Glory for Me, which was one of the inspirations for the film The Best Years of Our Lives. The classic noir Gun Crazy also based on one of this man's stories. His best known work tells the real-life story of William Collins, who is eventually hanged with the rest of his "Raiders." FTP, name this winner of the 1956 Pulitzer Prize for a book about the titular prison camp, Andersonville.
MacKinley Kantor
9

140160-)
The narrator of this work pronounces that he could "lick my weight in Bobbsey Twins," and then muses that while the rain might be a friend of Katharine Hepburn, it's not a friend of his. The narrator uses the titular phrase to describe the truck he sits in throughout the story. At the end of this work, the narrator angrily tells a character to "never mind this missing stuff." FTP, name this J.D. Salinger story about Sgt. Vincent Caulfield musing about his M.I.A. brother Holden.
"This Sandwich Has No Mayonnaise"
9

140162-)
This location is described as where one character has "murdered [his] twelve secretaries," and where that character also "drink[s] the tea of the breasts of the spinsters of Utica." This location features "twenty five thousand mad comrades all together singing" the Internationale, while a character also plots "the Hebrew socialist revolution." FTP, name this psychiatric hospital where Carl Solomon and the author are said to be in the third section of Ginsberg's "Howl."
Rockland (I guess prompt on "Howl", prompt on New York)
9

140164-)
Along with Bob Schneider, he edited Whole Grains: A Collection of Quotations, which cited words of countercultural icons. Shortly after 9/11, he and his wife illustrated a New Yorker cover which featured the silhouettes of the Twin Towers. While working with Topps, he co-created the Garbage Pail Kids series, but he is best known for a work whose first volume is entitled My Father Bleeds History. FTP, name this author of the Holocaust graphic novel Maus.
Art Spiegelman
9

140165-)
In this author's first novel, Meg becomes jealous of her sister Molly, although the two reconcile before Molly dies of leukemia. Besides A Summer to Die, this author has written about young girls like Caroline Tate and Anastasia Krupnik.  One of her works deals with Annmarie Johansen's efforts to save her Jewish friend in Nazi-occupied Denmark. FTP, name this author of Number the Stars, who also wrote about Jonas, the "Receiver of Memory," in The Giver. 
Lois Lowry
9

140172-)
This work features such characters as Abner Dean, who eventually curls up on the floor. The central conflict in this work is between "Brown of Calaveras" and Jones, due to the former's trespassing in a family vault. The narrator concludes it is not decent for scientists to "say another is an ass," and the work ends with a fight conducted using Paleozoic fossils. FTP, name this Bret Harte poem, narrated by Truthful James, about a battle that destroys the titular group.
"Society Upon the Stanislaus"
9

140173-)
This work was originally intended as a film to be directed by the author's friend, Gene Kelly, and was inspired by the author's childhood encounter with a man named "Mr. Electrico." One character is a lightning rod salesman named Tom Fury, who is turned into a dwarf. Featuring such characters as the Skeleton and the Dust Witch, this work's primary antagonist is Mr. Dark, who is killed with affection. FTP, name this Ray Bradbury work about a sinister traveling carnival.
Something Wicked This Way Comes
9

140174-)
This man wrote a book about the star of the film Mr. Woods, a dwarf named Cadence Roth. Another of his works deals with radio host Gabriel Noone's discovery of a memoir by a young boy named Peter which describes sexual abuse and turns out to be a possible hoax. Besides Maybe the Moon and The Night Listener, this man is best known for describing the denizens of 28 Barbary Lane, San Francisco. FTP, name this author of the Tales of the City series.
Armistead Maupin Jr.
9

140175-)
One character in this work is "Leper Lepellier," who eventually goes insane.  A group of characters in this work form the "Super Suicide Society," which involves jumping out of a tree. This work is denounced as "preschool-level" by both Lisa and Mother Simpson, and is primarily about Gene's friendship and rivalry with Finny. FTP, name this work that begins with "I went back to the Devon School not long ago," a novel by John Knowles.
A Separate Peace 
9

140177-)
One story in this collection describes a group of people who fight for their land and are named "porcinistas." Another story in this collection ends when the main character starts a birth control clinic, while yet another story ends with the founding of a nudist colony. Written to avoid "ageist" and "speciesist" biases, FTP, name this humorous collection by James Finn Garner that provides enlightened retellings of familiar fairy tales.
Politically Correct Bedtime Stories: Modern Tales for Our Life and Time
9

140180-)
The protagonist of this work is employed as a street sweeper and enjoys three hours of social recreation each day, where he usually views plays. This work ends with the protagonist carving the word "EGO" into stone, and earlier in this work, the protagonist discovers electricity and the light bulb. Ending when the protagonist takes the name Prometheus instead of Equality, FTP, name this Ayn Rand work set in a dystopia where the Unspeakable Word is "I."
Anthem
9

140182-)
This man's son in law is frequently accused of being materialistic and is named Louie Marsellus. His daughter was initially engaged to be married to a developer of a new type of aviation engine, who died in World War I and had previously discovered the cliff dwellings at Blue Mesa. This man almost dies in his study when he doesn't turn off his gas stove, but is saved by his housekeeper. FTP, name this titular character in Willa Cather's The Professor's House.
Godfrey St. Peter (accept either, prompt on the Professor)
9

140183-)
The titular character in this work was reportedly based on a technician named Otto Hunerwadel, who is represented in this book as the engineer Homer Atkins. One character is Louis Sears, who spends too much time at parties and is replaced by Gilbert MacWhite. Featuring a character based on Edward Landsale named Colonel Hillandale, FTP, name this Burdick and Lederer work about American involvement in Sarkhan, whose title lives on as a slur against the United States.
The Ugly American 
9

140184-)
At one point, the protagonist states that this character is nothing more than "an undigested bit of beef" or "a blot of mustard." This character's face is said to resemble a "bad lobster in a dark cellar," and he muses that the "common welfare was my business." Played on film by Alec Guinness, Katherine Helmond, and Goofy, this character was represented by John F. Kennedy for the film An American Carol. FTP, name this "dead as a doornail" partner of Scrooge.
Jacob Marley (accept either)
9

140185-)
The first draft of this work was lost by the author at the Reading railway station and was never discovered despite newspaper stories announcing it. The author edited a "Subscribers' Edition" of this work while serving in the RAF under the name "Aircraftman Ross." Taking its title from Proverbs 9:1, this work's truncated third edition is entitled Revolt in the Desert. FTP, name this memoir by T.E. Lawrence, whose title describes a certain foundation of knowledge.
Seven Pillars of Wisdom: A Triumph (accept Revolt in the Desert until mentioned)
9

140186-)
In one of this author's novels, Ruth falls in love with a figurative "vampire" and decides to run off her with her friend Charmian. In another of this author's works, the titular nobleman becomes infatuated with his own daughter. Besides Azarian and Sir Rohan's Ghost, she is best known for a story which Emily Dickinson claimed "followed her." FTP, name this author who wrote about a couple's battle with the black panther "Indian Devil," entitled "Circumstance."
Harriet Prescott Spofford
9

140189-)
One character in this work makes up a job after seeing an ad for Chesterfields, while another character has an idea for a device that would transform a business suit into a tuxedo. Yet another character claims to be a descendant of Kit Carson, but is dubbed "Pimples."  Featuring stripper Camille Oaks, waitress Norma, and the half-Mexican, half-Irish Juan Chicoy, FTP, name this John Steinbeck work about "Sweetheart," the titular conveyance operated by Juan.
The Wayward Bus
9

140190-)
At one point in this work, the speaker says he is "thinking of a color," and notes that "there should be so much more." The speaker recalls having a drink with Mike Goldberg and noticing the word "SARDINES," which is later appended to a painting by Goldberg. The speaker ends this work by writing twelve poems called "ORANGES." FTP, name this Frank O'Hara poem written about the titular occupation, whose title recalls a Bertrand Russell work of irreligion.
"Why I Am Not a Painter"
9

140192-)
In 2008, Suzanna Daou proclaimed that she was the model for this work's protagonist, which the author, Daou's sister, denied. This work ends with the protagonist soaping her hair while naked in her husband's bathtub, and the sequel to this work is entitled How to Save Your Own Life. Featuring the story of a poet's trip to Vienna, FTP, name this work about Isadora Wing, a novel that introduced the phrase "zipless fuck," and the most famous work of Erica Jong.
Fear of Flying
9

140193-)
In one of this man's books, a mysterious rock absorbs the attention of a ship's crew and transforms them into apes, while another work features a greedy dentist whose wishes come true after eating magical fruit. Besides The Wretched Stone and The Sweetest Fig, he wrote a work where Judy and Peter attempt to make it to the titular Golden City. FTP, name this children's author, whose Zathura and Jumanji are about magical board games.
Chris Van Allsburg
9

140195-)
One character in this work owns an Airedale named Nobs and is in love with a woman named Lys La Rue, whose fiancÃ©, Friedrich von Schoenvorts, is the commander of a U-Boat. The narrator claims to find this work in a thermos bottle off the coast of Greenland, but the primary action takes place on the island Caspak, where the protagonists establish Fort Dinosaur. FTP, name this Edgar Rice Burroughs work about a world where dinosaurs and cavemen still exist.
The Land That Time Forgot (accept The People That Time Forgot or People Out of Time or Out of Time's Abyss)
9

140198-)
The protagonist of this work never liked the word "booby" and begins the work sitting in his breakfast nook eating scrambled eggs. Referenced by Dr. Richard Lenski when discussing evolutionary mutation with Andrew Schafly in 2008, this work ends after a "terrific struggle" when the protagonist's wife is taken away to a "booby-hatch." FTP, name this James Thurber story about a man who spots a "mythical beast" with a golden horn in its forehead.
"The Unicorn in the Garden"
9

140199-)
At one point in this work, the Chinese Mr. Tsung advises the protagonist that the war "can be lost at the conference table." The protagonist journeys to Scotland to recruit miners, and learns how to use equipment from the "geysermouth" Ker. The villains of this work drink kerbango and utilize gas drones to wipe out cities. Featuring the heroism of Jonnie Goodboy Tyler, FTP, name this work about the fight to free Earth from the Psychlos, written by L. Ron Hubbard.
Battlefield Earth
9

140200-)
One of this man's works deals with the Bannon cattle ranch and inspired a film which won the Best Actress Oscar for Patricia Neal. Besides Horseman, Pass By, adapted as Hud, he wrote an autobiographical book about the Texas town of Thalia titled The Last Picture Show. With Diana Ossana, this man adapted the story "Brokeback Mountain" to the screen, and is best known for a novel about ex-Texas Rangers running a cattle drive. FTP, name this author of Lonesome Dove.
Larry McMurtry
9

140201-)
One of this man's story collections sees such characters as a female heavyweight boxer named Fera Jones and a child with the greatest IQ ever, Ptolemy Bent. Besides Futureland, this man wrote a series of books about an ex-con named Socrates Fortlow, but his best known character works in Watts and is friends with "Mouse" Alexander. FTP, name this man who invented black detective Easy Rawlins in a series beginning with Devil in a Blue Dress.
Walter Mosley
9

140203-)
One of this author's works sees a woman named Janet being abducted by aliens and falling in love with their leader, while another novel sees Robin Stone become the head of a television network. Besides Yargo and The Love Machine, this author is best known for a work chronicling the lives of Anne, Neely, and Jennifer, actresses who become addicted to the titular drugs. FTP, name this best-selling trash novelist who penned Valley of the Dolls.
Jacqueline Susann
9

140204-)
The second act of this play takes place entirely on an enormous bed where the four lead characters take turns speaking. The final act of this play, "Widows and Children First," features a teenager named David and the revelation that another character was killed by men with baseball bats.  Featuring Arnold Beckoff's relationships with Ed and Alan, FTP, identify this series of one-act plays written by Harvey Fierstein, a masterpiece of gay theater.
Torch Song Trilogy (accept Fugue in a Nursery and The International Stud, accept Widows and Children First until mentioned)
9

140205-)
NOTE TO MODERATOR: Read the bracketed part to avoid confusion.This author wrote a book entitled Knights [with a k!] in the Garden of Spain, which has nothing to do with the musical work but is a memoir about the author's experiences in Spain. This author penned a memoir about the death of her mother entitled Child No More.  More representative pieces of literature include The Golden Phallus of Osiris trilogy and a 1971 book about her life running the Vertical Whorehouse. FTP, name this author of The Happy Hooker.
Xaviera Hollander (accept Happy Hooker until mentioned)
9

140207-)
This character was married to a woman named Phyllis, who dies in the book Blood on the Black Market. He is not Ellery Queen, but he had a self-titled Mystery Magazine that ran for almost three decades. This character first appeared in Dividend in Death and had a radio show where he was described as "that reckless, red-headed Irishman." FTP, name this Brett Halliday creation, a hard-boiled detective whose name is pronounced the same as your question writer.
Michael Shayne (accept either)
9

140208-)
This author had a Navy ship named after him, which was commissioned in 1943. Some of his works include Cruise of the Jasper B. and Pandora Lifts the Lid, but he is best known for creating two characters while working at the New York Evening Sun in 1916. One of his characters cannot operate the shift key and produces no capitals, while another is an alley cat. FTP, name this creator of the cockroach author Archy and his friend Mehitabel.
Don Marquis
9

140675-)
The author of this play wrote about how it changed his career in the essay  The Catastrophe o f Success. A picture of a young man in a "doughboy’s World War I cap" hangs on a wall throughout this play. At the beginning of this play, a solitary man declares, "I give you truth in the pleasant disguise of illusion" and calls himself "the opposite of a stage magician." At its end, (*)  Tom asks his sister to blow out the candles. The second act of this play centers on the appearance of the "gentleman caller" Jim O'Connor, who breaks a unicorn that is part of the title collection. For 10 points, name this play about the dysfunctional Wingfield family, written by Tennessee Williams.
The Glass Menagerie
4

140709-)
One story by this author ends with the head of Babo, which now “met unabashed the gazes of the whites” after he was killed for leading a slave insurrection on the San Dominick, captained by the title man. In another story by this author the title character joins Nippers and Turkey in legal document copying before slowly refusing more and more work until he is let go and finally dies of starvation in The Tombs. That character frequently repeats the statement, “I would prefer not to.” For 10 points, what American author wrote “Benito Cereno” and “Bartleby the Scrivener,” as well as “Billy Budd”?
Herman Melville
6

140717-)
In this novel, Pope [poh-PAY] gives the protagonist’s mother, Linda, a copy of the complete works of Shakespeare, the only text the protagonist ever reads. Lenina Crowne tries to seduce this novel’s protagonist, but he disavows pre-marital sex and attacks her with a whip. After his mother dies, this novel’s protagonist hangs himself, unable to find an alternative to a culture of mass production and consumerism. Years in this novel are dated to the production of the first Model T, and the title of “His Fordship” is given to the World Controller Mustapha Mond. For 10 points, John “The Savage” appears in what novel featuring alphas and betas by Aldous Huxley?
Brave New World
6

140722-)
A short story named for a battle in this war sees an unnamed boy confronted by maimed soldiers retreating from a battle; unaware of the seriousness of their wounds, the boy plays at leading those soldiers before discovering his own house burned and his mother killed. The author of that story set in this war also wrote a story in which the protagonist hears a loud and regular metallic clanging which he soon realizes is the ticking of his own watch; his senses are heightened due to his impending hanging by opposing soldiers in this war. For 10 points, the stories “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge,” which depicts the hanging of Peyton Farquhar, and “Chickamauga,” are set during what war?
American Civil War [accept equivalents, such as War of Southern Aggression]
6

140746-)
In this novel, doctors hold up a sign reading “Who was Buckeye the Rabbit” after its narrator has undergone shock therapy and finds himself mute and incapable of remembering his name. The narrator of this novel mistakenly says “social equality” rather than “social responsibility” during a speech to a white audience, members of which had previously had him and other black young men blindfolded and forced to pummel each other. Later, its narrator’s acquaintance Tod Clifton is shot by police, and the narrator flees the vengeance of Ras the Destroyer to hide in an underground room. For 10 points, the narrator believes his blackness has caused the title inability to be seen in what novel by Ralph Ellison?
Invisible Man
6

140763-)
A character in this play posits that “the human animal is a beast” that buys and buys in the “crazy hope that one of his purchases will be life everlasting!” A woman this play affirms that “life has got to be allowed to continue even after the dream of life is--all--over” and soon afterward exclaims “I am alive! I am alive!” while her husband wildly swipes at her. A character in this play declares that he hasn’t “been able to stand the sight, smell, or sound of that woman for (*) forty years now,” in a monologue that begins with him snatching his son’s liquor glass and sardonically asking him: “What do you know about this mendacity thing?” A plantation owner in this play is told he has a spastic colon to disguise his true diagnosis with terminal cancer, allowing Mae and Gooper to scheme for his estate. For 10 points, name this Tennessee Williams play set at the birthday party of Big Daddy Pollitt.
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
9

140765-)
In a 1970 novel, an ex-employee of this industry hitches a ride to an abortion clinic from a “man in white duck pants” who babbles about his Cadillac the whole trip. In a novel arranged for publication by the author’s friend Edmund Wilson, a man experiences a mid-flight change of heart about his decision to murder his rival in this industry, but never gets a chance to call off the hitmen, because the plane crashes and he dies. After losing his job in this industry, Dennis Barlow works at the (*) Happier Hunting Ground, a funeral service for pets, in Evelyn Waugh’s novel The Loved One. In a novel about this industry, the fake cowboy Earle Shoop and the dwarf Abe Kusich sleep with Faye Greener, who enthralls an artist struggling to paint “The Burning of Los Angeles.” For 10 points, name this industry satirized by Nathanael West in The Day of the Locust and romanticized in F. Scott Fitzgerald’s unfinished novel The Last Tycoon.
Hollywood [or the film industry; or movie industry; or acting industry; the first novel is Joan Didion’s Play It As It Lays]
9

140766-)
An essay by this author describes a party where a girl accidentally shatters one of a pair of alabaster birds, to which the host responds by breaking the other bird. In his autobiography, this author recounted working for months on a piece about John and Lorena Bobbitt, only to have it be cruelly rejected by The New Yorker. Harlan Ellison is pressured to leave a private club in Beverly Hills for wearing insufficiently formal boots in an article by this writer that interpolates (*) lyrics such as “Life is a beautiful thing / I’ve got the world on a string.”  In 2016, this author wrote about how Gerald Foos modified the attic of his hotel so he could document his guests having sex in his article “The Voyeur Motel.” He published an Esquire profile describing how a prying CBS documentary upset a nearly-fifty year old singer who was feeling under the weather. For 10 points, name this New Journalist author of “Frank Sinatra Has a Cold.”
Gay Talese
9

140774-)
In a story from this collection, a college girl and her Taiwanese boyfriend crash into a telephone pole immediately after driving off with the narrator’s money. This collection ends with its narrator rhapsodizing about “All these weirdos, and me getting a little better every day right in the midst of them” after recounting memories a woman saluting with her paralyzed arm during sex, and of a Mennonite man washing his wife’s feet after arguing with her. In the film adaptation of this collection, its author plays the role of Terrence Weber, a man whose wife stabbed him in the (*) eye. Its protagonist finally finds a stable job writing a newsletter at a facility for disabled people in its last story, “Beverly Home.” While cutting the baby bunnies out of a rabbit he had hit with his truck in its story “Emergency,” the protagonist of this collection muses on the aptness of his nickname “Fuckhead.” For 10 points, name this collection of linked stories about a recovering heroin addict, by Denis Johnson.
Jesus’ Son
9

140777-)
This novel’s conclusion beseeches the reader to “Be true! Be true! Be true! Show freely to the world, if not your worst, yet some trait whereby the worst may be inferred!” This novel declares: “let men tremble to win the hand of woman, unless they win along with it the utmost passion of her art!”, in a scene in which a woman curses her husband while her daughter fashions a mermaid costume out of seaweed from a nearby tidepool. A girl in this novel is warned that: “We must not always talk in the marketplace of what happens to us in the forest,” when she is tempted to go up and return the (*) kiss of a man she recognizes at a procession. A character in this novel climbs up a scaffold, declares himself to be the “one sinner of the world” before his congregation and dies, right after delivering a wildly popular sermon on Election Day. This novel ends by revealing that its protagonist shares a headstone with Arthur Dimmesdale bearing the title symbol. For 10 points, name this novel about the adulterous Hester Prynne, by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The Scarlet Letter
9

140779-)
The title character of this poem “revels in a region of sighs” and “has seen that the tears are not dry on / These cheeks, where the worm never dies.” This poem is set when its speaker’s “heart was volcanic” as “the lavas that restlessly roll / Their sulphurous currents down Yanaak / In the ultimate climes of the pole.” This poem, which was commissioned for a lecture on public speaking, often repeats nearly-identical phrases in adjacent lines, as with the paired images of “leaves that were crispèd and (*) sere” and “leaves that were withering and sere.” The speaker of this poem asks Psyche “What is written …  / On the door of this legended tomb?” and is told that it is the vault of the title character. This poem repeatedly mentions that it is set “by the dank tarn of Auber, / In the ghoul-haunted woodland of Weir.” For 10 points, name this poem by Edgar Allan Poe about a man who unwittingly walks to where he had buried his beloved.
“To -- -- --. Ulalume: A Ballad”
9

140782-)
This novel’s characters find a scrapbook that a man had assembled to caution his daughter about the Seven Deadly Sins, signing the last page in his own blood. This novel opens and closes with a paragraph declaring of its title setting, that “whatever walked there, walked alone.” A character in this novel squeezes her friend’s hand to cope with the screams of a child, but soon discovers the friend asleep in her own bed. A character in this novel thinks: “Why am I doing this? Why don’t they stop me?” the instant before she fatally barrels her (*) car into a tree. Dr. Montague studies the title setting of this novel, in which Theo finds all her clothes splashed with blood and an all caps message demanding “HELP ELEANOR COME HOME” appears in the paneling. For 10 points, name this novel about a supernatural mansion, by Shirley Jackson.
The Haunting of Hill House
9

140786-)
he narrator of a novel by this author imagines that the world transforms into “an entomologist’s dream,” as the earth tilts off-axis with Matisse at its center. The narrator chances upon a factory where mutilated people walk off with their eventual coffins in a dream sequence titled “Into the Night Life” from a novel by this author. This author declared at the start of a novel that “this is not a book,” but rather “a prolonged insult, a gob of spit in the face of Art, a kick in the pants to God, Man, Destiny, Time, Beauty.” That novel by this author ends with its protagonist (*) wading into the Seine and imagining himself merging with the universe. This author’s sophomore novel, Black Spring, came on the heels of his book whose 1961 publication by Grove Press resulted in an obscenity trial that went to the Supreme Court. This author’s lover Anais Nin helped edit that novel, which follows his time in Paris as a struggling writer. For 10 points, name this author of Tropic of Cancer.
Henry Miller
9

140792-)
This novel cautions the reader to “fear the time when the bombs stop falling while the bomber lives -- for every bomb is proof that the spirit has not died.” This novel’s mostly-odd interchapters, which its author called “pace changers,” include one adopting the persona of a profiteering used car salesman. The narrator of this novel observes that “in the souls of the people, the” title objects are “filling and growing heavy,” in a chapter preceding one in which a policeman bashes the (*) skull of a suspected Communist with a pickaxe handle. The protagonist of this novel promises his mother that “Wherever they’s a fight so hungry people can eat, I’ll be there,” before leaving to take up his ex-preacher friend’s cause organizing workers. In this novel’s final scene, a man starving in a barn is breastfed by Rose of Sharon. For 10 points, name this novel about the new life of the impoverished Joad family in California, by John Steinbeck.
The Grapes of Wrath
9

140801-)
The protagonist of this novel reflects on the line “What greater grief than the loss of one’s native land” from Euripides’s Medea after learning that his father’s best friend was shot to death in a fight over a bottle of wine. Outraged that it is thirty years old, the protagonist of this novel throws his geometry textbook and hits his teacher in the face. The sister of this novel’s title character moves to Montana in search for a better life, but ends up burning to death in her trailer after (*) passing out during a wild party. This novel includes a set of hand-drawn illustrations by Ellen Forney, representing the cartoons that its protagonist sketches in his free time. Its protagonist alienates his best friend Rowdy by opting to go to school in the rich white town of Reardan. For 10 points, name this young adult novel about the upbringing of the teenager Arnold “Junior” Spirit on the Spokane Indian Reservation, by Sherman Alexie.
The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time Indian
9

140804-)
The narrator perceives “a natural instinct to abjure man as the blot on an otherwise kindly universe” when he looks away from this action to a herd of horses gently rubbing each others’ necks. A woman being tried at the Town Hall for disorderly behavior at church turns the tables and accuses the presiding magistrate of having performed this action twenty years earlier. This action takes place in a furmity tent at Weydon-Priors, where its perpetrator repeatedly passes his bowl of porridge to be (*) spiked with rum; afterwards, he penitently swears off alcohol for twenty-one years, the length of time he has been alive. After the sum inches up to five guineas, a sailor completes this action and leaves with Susan and Elizabeth-Jane. For 10 points, name this cruel action performed by Michael Henchard at the start of The Mayor of Casterbridge.
Michael Henchard selling his family [or Michael Henchard selling his wife and daughter; or Michael Henchard selling his daughter and wife; accept auctioning in place of selling]
9

140808-)
This character delivers a monologue about “gorgeous lunk-heads” who eye her at bars but never approach her, as she “sits there with her dress up over her head.. suffocating.” At the start of the third act, she giddily makes a clinking noise with the ice in her drink and babbles like a baby. The play ends with this woman repeating the words “I… am… I… am” as her husband gently places a hand on her shoulder and sings to her. A fake gun that fires parasols is held up to this character’s head soon before she responds to an insult about her (*) father’s red, mouselike eyes by insulting her husband for “flopping” in the History Department. This woman becomes furious when told that her son died in a car accident while swerving to avoid hitting a porcupine, because it becomes obvious that her son is fictional. For 10 points, name this woman who plays “Get the Guests” while entertaining Nick and Honey with her husband George, in Edward Albee’s Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Martha
9

140810-)
A character in this story delivers a monologue declaring that man was “Dispossessed of Eden. Dispossessed of Canaan, and those who dispossessed Him dispossessed Him dispossessed.” This story ends with a man yelling “Don’t touch a one of them! They’re mine!” as he smacks the dismantled components of his gun against a gum-tree full of squirrels. In the oft-omitted fourth section of this story, its protagonist ties the downfall of the South to God’s curse upon man for raping its land in a (*) stream-of-consciousness dialogue, complete with a 1600 word sentence, in which he tells his cousin Cass Edmonds that he is renouncing his claim to the family plantation. In this story, the half-Chickasaw tracker Sam Fathers suffers a fatal seizure at the exact moment that Boon Hogganbeck delivers a knife-strike to the heart of Old Ben. For 10 points, name this centerpiece of the collection Go Down, Moses, a Faulkner story in which Ike McCaslin joins the hunt for the title animal.
“The Bear”
9

140811-)
This character recounts holding her breath to match the rhythm of her dog, who had suddenly disappeared earlier in the novel. This character routinely seeks solitude in a ring of boxwood bushes she calls her “emerald closet.” This character is disturbed by a figurine of a slave holding coins in its mouth that she sees at the house of the abolitionist Bodwin couple, who hire her after she leaves her house by herself for the first time in twelve years. Soon after (*) Stamp Paid saves her from having her head dashed against a wall, this character drinks her sister’s blood while nursing at her mother’s breast. This character is named after the white girl who had midwifed her after her mother’s escape from the Sweet Home plantation. For 10 points, name this youngest daughter of Sethe in Toni Morrison’s novel Beloved.
Denver
9

140812-)
A man in this play calms down his wife by describing an annual holiday festival in his hometown which was ruined for him when he saw twenty-seven men murdered in a street fight. A count who had earlier in this play been told not to play cards at the embassy with only “eighty-seven dollars” is later murdered by a man who tells him “you should not gamble with your life” after a short discussion about his plans to get a visa from (*) Von Steitz. This play is set in the estate of the Farrellys, where it is discovered that a man has been hiding $23,000 collected over the years to fund a resistance movement. Upon being threatened over his plans to save Max, who had once saved him from the Gestapo, Kurt kills Teck de Brancovis in this play. For 10 points, name this play about the Mullers, a family of anti-Nazi activists living in Washington D.C., written by Lillian Hellman
Watch on the Rhine
9

140816-)
The speaker of a poem in this collection promises to “turn, singularly calm / At forehead and at fingers rather wise, / Holding the bandage ready for your eyes.” The jarring line “thousands--killed in action” opens a three-poem “appendix” subtitled “Leaves from a loose-leaf diary” that appears in the middle of this collection, followed by the poem “The Children of the Poor.” The title character exclaims “How pinchy is my room!” in this collection’s first poem, which begins “Weeps out of western country something new” to describe her (*) birth. The middle part of this collection adapts Chaucer’s meter over forty-three stanzas describing the title character’s fantasy romance with a tan-colored knight who is conscripted to fight in World War II. In this collection, sections titled “Notes from the Childhood and the Girlhood” and “The Womanhood” sandwich a mock-heroic epic titled “The Anniad.” For 10 points, name this collection detailing the upbringing of an African-American girl, written by Gwendolyn Brooks.
Annie Allen
9

140819-)
In the epilogue to this novel, a character weeps upon recognizing three girls from his youth in a newspaper article reporting that they had hanged themselves because their father could not afford their dowries. To maximize public sympathy, a “Beggarmaster” in this novel manages a troupe of people with diverse deformities, such as being legless or having no eyes. In its climactic scene, two of this novel’s main characters are piled into a truck and taken to the Family (*) Planning Center, where one has his legs amputated and the other is castrated after both undergo compulsory vasectomies. To remain financially independent, a woman in this novel takes on the paying boarder Maneck Kohlah and works the untouchable tailors Ishvar and Omprakash under sweatshop conditions. For 10 points, name this set at the apartment of the Parsi woman Dina Dilal, the best-known novel by Canadian-Indian novelist Rohinton Mistry.
A Fine Balance
9

140820-)
A character in this story pouts that she’ll “go through life without ever having a kiss with Brazilian trimmings.” This story ends with one of its main characters warn his old idol Anton Laurier to install a padlock and never to answer raps on his door. A newborn daughter in this story is given the middle name “Hume,” after the name of the armchair where her mother sat when she met her father. A woman in this story agrees to read a volume of Pepys’ diary if her husband joins a gym, leading to her (*) writing a book titled Sandra Pepys, Syncopated and him becoming a trapeze stuntman, reversing their roles from when she was an actress in a musical comedy and he was a child prodigy at Yale. For 10 points, name this story symbolizing the athletic and intellectual qualities of Marcia Meadow and Horace Tarbox as the title body parts, by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
“Head and Shoulders”
9

140831-)
A character in this novel delivers a monologue recounting how he yelled and danced at a tank until it opened fire at him. The protagonist of this novel catches an eagle during a hunt, but upon despairing at the prospect of its captivity, he strangles it. This novel ends with it main character stripping his shirt off and joining a group of running men. After being seduced by the pregnant white woman Angela St. John and killing an (*) albino who humiliates him at a rooster-pull contest, the protagonist of this novel moves to Los Angeles, where he earns the enmity of the corrupt police officer Martinez and is mocked as a “longhair” incapable of adapting to the modern world. This novel begins with the World War II veteran Abel returning to the Pueblo Reservation in New Mexico. For 10 points, name this 1968 novel which heralded the Native American Renaissance, by N. Scott Momaday.
House Made of Dawn
9

140833-)
This author calls “attention with tears… to the barren / air that holds the world that was my world,” in a poem recounting a visit to his infant brother’s grave. This author asks “what else deflects us from the errors of our illusionary ways” in the second section of a long poem in free-verse couplets, in which he states that the title stuff “has to be the poem of our time” because it is “spiritual, believable enough / to get our attention.” This author of “Easter Morning” wrote that he has “perceived nothing completely, / that tomorrow a new (*) walk is a new walk,” at the end of his poem arising from a stroll over the dunes by the New Jersey shore. This author won the 1993 National Book Award for his single-sentence book length poem inspired by a Florida landfill. For 10 points, name this modern American poet of “Corsons Inlet” and Garbage, known for his innovative linking of clauses with colons.
A. R. Ammons [or Archie Randolph Ammons]
9

140838-)
A set of children in this story are said to know only “the darkness of their lives, which was now closing in on them, and the darkness of the movies, which had blinded them to that other darkness.” In her dreams, a woman in this story is haunted by the agonized screams of her daughter Grace as she lay writhing in pain from polio. The narrator of this story is told how his uncle drunkenly ran down a hill with his guitar banging on his back, peed behind a tree, and died by being run over by a car filled with drunk (*) white men. This story begins with its narrator struggling to teach his algebra class after learning that the title character had been arrested for selling heroin. While living with his sister-in-law Isabel, the title character of this story sneaks off to Greenwich Village to mingle with musicians, skips school, and spends all of his time practicing the piano. For 10 points, name this story in which the narrator’s brother joins a jazz band, by James Baldwin.
Sonny’s Blues”
9

140842-)
When a character from this collection fires a pistol at his hand, a blue phosphorescence arrests the bullet in mid-air. In a story from this collection, Hernando observes a procession of cars fleeing the end of the world, and asks: “What do they mean, ‘the world’?” In its epilogue, the narrator runs away before an image of the title character choking him to death can fully coalesce. A society built upon reverse-Jim Crow segregation admits two white travelers upon learning that cotton fields and other reminders of racism were (*) wiped away with the destruction of the Earth, in this collection’s story “The Other Foot.” A man replaces himself with a surrogate robot, who kills him and runs off with his wife, in this collection’s story “Marionettes, Inc.” In its best-known story, Wendy and Peter lock their parents George and Lydia in a virtual reality “nursery” where they are eaten by lions. For 10 points, “The Veldt” is one of several stories depicted on the tattooed body of a former carnival worker in what collection by Ray Bradbury?
The Illustrated Man
9

140845-)
In a poem by this author, the speaker and his lover are surrounded by “a silence already filled with noises, / A canvas on which emerges / A chorus of smiles, a winter morning,” as they observe objects that each join “a neighbor, as though speech / Were a still performance.” This author wrote that poetry is generated by “the extreme austerity of an almost empty mind / Colliding with the lush, Rousseau-like foliage of its desire to communicate / Something between breaths,” in a poem titled for a dictum from Horace’s Ars Poetica. W.H. Auden admitted to not (*) understanding a word of the manuscript when he voted to award the 1956 Yale Younger Poets Prize to this author’s first collection, Some Trees. This author of “And Ut Pictura Poesis Is Her Name” wrote a book-length poem describing an “affirmation that doesn’t affirm anything,” captured by “the right hand / Bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer,” in a Parmigianino painting. For 10 points, name this ninety-year old poet of Self-Portrait in a Convex Mirror.
John Ashbery
9

140850-)
A poem by this author observes that “as you read / the sea is turning its dark pages,” and “a white bear leisurely / pees, dyeing the snow / saffron.” This author wrote that “I love them / for finding what / I can’t find, / and for loving me / for the line I wrote” in a poem in which “Two girls discover / the secret of life / in a sudden line of poetry.” This poet declared that, contra Wordsworth, “The world is / not with us enough / O taste and see,” a phrase which titles (*) her collection containing “The Secret.” After publishing her groundbreaking 1959 collection, With Eyes at the Back of Our Heads, this author drifted apart from the Black Mountain poets, who disliked her political involvement. For 10 points, name this English-born American poet whose output in the 1960s channels her opposition to the Vietnam War
Denise Levertov [or Priscilla Denise Levertoff]
9

140851-)
A play by this author begins with its dead cast stepping onto a wooden platform as ashes fall from their drab clothes. A play by this author warns against ordering “ladies’ drinks” as part of a “Mother’s Guide to Social Drinking” that is aired to the audience when its sixteen-year old protagonist is offered her first martini. Three segments titled “On Men, Sex, and Women” appear in that play by her, whose grown-up protagonist seduces a high school boy. Her most recent play dramatizes the controversy sparked by a lesbian kiss at the premiere of (*) Sholem Asch’s 1907 play God of Vengeance. In her best-known play, a sexual relationship between Li’L Bit and her uncle Peck develops during her rides in his Buick. For 10 points, name this author who won the 1998 Pulitzer for her play How I Learned to Drive, and whose play Indecent is currently on Broadway.
Paula Vogel
9

140862-)
In this story, a man with a cancerous lump over his ear creepily carries a long peppermint stick and follows a boy into the woods. The protagonist of this story believes after reading a book that all pigs are pink bowtie-wearing animals with curly tails, so he is easily pranked into releasing a hog that attacks and chases him. At the start of this story, its protagonist’s father puts an ill-fitting coat on him, and mutters the command “for Christ’s sake, fix him” to his (*) babysitter. In this story, the gas station owner Mr. Paradise heckles a man conducting a healing service enthusiastically attended by Mrs. Connin. Even though the evangelist Bevel Summers baptizes him and “counts” him among the saved, the protagonist of this story is ignored by his family. For 10 points, name this second story from A Good Man is Hard to Find, in which the young child Harry Ashfield then returns to the title body of water, and drowns.
“The River”
9

140864-)
This author described a natural scene that “Has given my heart / A change of mood / And saved some part / Of a day I had rued,” in his brief poem “Dust of Snow.” This poet published a grouping of brief aphoristic lyrics called “Quantula,” such as one asking the “men of earth” if “all the soul-and-body scars / Were not too much to pay for birth,” in the last of his four Pulitzer-winning collections. In a poem that modifies Dante’s terza rima, he wrote that “from what I have tasted of (*) desire / I hold with those who favor” one of the title phenomena, yet admits that “ I think I know enough of hate / To say that for destruction,” the other “Is also great / And would suffice.” He wrote a poem about nature’s “hardest hue to hold,” whose title statement follows the rhyming line: “So dawn goes down to day.” For 10 points, name this poet whose collection New Hampshire includes his very short lyrics “Fire and Ice” and “Nothing Gold Can Stay.”
Robert Frost [or Robert Lee Frost]
9

140865-)
One of this author’s characters tries to make a dictator more approachable by making him wear fuzzy teal blue hats. In a story by this author narrated in second-person, women use a Dissociation Technique when they are raped while swimming in the Mediterranean. In another story by this author, the guitar player for the Flaming Dildos shows up at a concert with a fish that he caught in the East River. The high school student Rhea tells Lou that he’s old when she sees pictures of his children at his apartment when narrating the section “Ask Me If I Care” in a novel by this author, who released the story (*) “Black Box” as a series of tweets. The children of the kleptomaniac Sasha put together a seventy-page PowerPoint, and Lulu uses text-speak to describe performing tasks for the record company executive Benny Salazar, in a novel of interrelated stories by this author. For 10 points, name this author of A Visit From the Goon Squad.
Jennifer Egan
9

140867-)
A woman in this book gets her hair cut one inch shorter each time she goes to the beautician, so she can match her husband. The narrator of this book hands a jar of opium to Ralph Cheever Dunning to dissuade him from jumping off a roof. A chapter detailing how rich tourists hire a “pilot fish” to scout out the best fishing spots was added in the 2009 “Restored Edition” of this book, in which it is followed by a chapter detailing the author’s affair with (*) Pauline Pfeiffer. The narrator of this book inspects F. Scott Fitzgerald’s penis at a restaurant bathroom to assure him that it’s fine. This book describes the manager of an auto shop accusing a repairman of being part of “une generation perdue” for taking too long to fix Gertrude Stein’s car, prompting Stein to repurpose the phrase and tell the author that “you are all a lost generation.” For 10 points, name this memoir about Ernest Hemingway’s time as a young writer in 1920s Paris.
A Moveable Feast
9

140869-)
The protagonist of this novel fantasizes about donating so much blood to the Red Cross, that wounded veterans from around the world come up to personally thank her. Its protagonist responds to being teased for having a crush by flinging a knife at a door. The title character of this novel crawls down a fire escape from the hotel room of a soldier who forces himself on her after buying her a drink at the Blue Moon Cafe. This novel opens with its protagonist playing (*) cards with her younger cousin John Henry and her black housekeeper Berenice. In its climactic scene, the protagonist of this novel is dragged away, bawling, from the steering wheel of the getaway car of the newlyweds Janice and Jarvis. For 10 points, name this novel in which the twelve-year old Frankie Addams tries to join her brother’s nuptials, by Carson McCullers.
The Member of the Wedding
9

140870-)
This author wrote a poem stating that “we need the spells, to raise up / return, destroy, and create,” asking: “What will be / the sacred word?” The speaker of a poem by this author observes that “love is an evil word / Turn it backwards… see what I mean?” This author wrote that “Poems are bullshit unless they are / Teeth or trees or lemons piled / On a step,” in a poetic manifesto declaring that “We want poems that kill.” This author wrote a poem declaring that “all the stores will open if you say the magic words… ‘Up (*) against the wall motherfucker this is a stick up!” This founder of the Black Arts Repertory Theater inquired “Who told 4000 Israeli workers at the Twin Towers /  To stay home that day” in a poem that got the post of Poet Laureate of New Jersey abolished. For 10 points, name this author of the antisemitic poem “Somebody Blew Up America,” whose black militancy compelled him to change his name from LeRoi Jones.
Amiri Baraka [accept LeRoi Jones until mentioned]
9

140874-)
One of these two authors was horrified at the mention of a “water-closet” in the initial draft of a poem that the other author set “At four o’clock / in the gun-metal blue dark.” One of these authors wrote that “we can… play at a game of constantly being wrong / with a priceless set of vocabularies,” in a poem recounting her fateful first meeting with the other beside the stone lions of the New York Public Library. One of these authors is instructed to “please come flying” in that (*) “invitation” penned by the other. These two poets observed that “All / external / marks of abuse are present on this / defiant edifice” and “his brown skin hung in strips / like ancient wallpaper” in poems about similar natural scenes in which they respectively declared that “the sea grows old in it” and “everything / was rainbow, rainbow, rainbow!” For 10 points, name these two female American poets and close friends who both wrote poems titled “The Fish.”
Elizabeth Bishop and Marianne Moore
9

140880-)
A character in this story removes the wedding ring from his wife’s finger and clips it into pieces with a pair of wire-cutters. A character in this story wishes he had a name like Jack London’s after a man recommends that he read The Call of the Wild. While still naked, this story’s narrator watches a bald man wearing a baseball cap and ill-fitting overalls named Mr. Venturini painting his house. Early in this story, a “big fat” electrician named Tiny has a seizure during breakfast. In this story, (*) after Roxy offers a good luck kiss to J.P. when she comes to sweep his chimney, the two go on a series of chimney-sweeping dates and eventually marry. This story ends with its narrator resolving to phone his wife to wish her Happy New Year, running the risk that he might have to tell her that he’s at a rehab center run by Frank Martin. For 10 points, name this story about a recovering alcoholic, by Raymond Carver.
“Where I’m Calling From”
9

140883-)
One of this author’s characters thinks: “By heaven, it hurts, it hurts!” just after seeing off a pregnant woman taking a train back to her husband’s house. In a different story by her, that character addresses an apostrophe to the “Night of south winds--night of the few stars! / Still nodding night!,” inflaming the passion of Mrs. Garoda, who sits next to him on a park bench. That character created by this author bears witness to a woman shattering a wine glass in her effort to stop Victor from singing (*) “Ah! Si tu sauvais!” at a party thrown to celebrate her move into a “pigeon house.” The character of Gouvernail appears in this author’s stories “Athénaïse” and “A Respectable Woman,” as well as in a novel whose protagonist befriends the old pianist Mademoiselle Reisz, whose words she recalls as she strips off her bathing suit and wades into the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the married life of Edna Pointellier in The Awakening.
Kate Chopin
9

140885-)
In one of this author’s novels, a candlemaker struggling to pay off his debts hits his head and “linger[s] a few days with wandering mind” before he dies, a scene inspired by the fatal delirious fever this author’s own father Allen suffered after riding in an open horse carriage for two days during winter. This author attained instant celebrity status after writing his debut novel, due to a lurid scene in which the exotic woman Fayaway strips naked and uses her clothing as a sail to propel herself and the narrator across a pond. The brutality of such scenes from one of this man’s novels in which (*) crew members of the Neversink are tortured for refusing to shave their beards prompted U.S. navy abolished the practice of flogging. A character in one of his novels uses the designations “Folio,” “Octavo,” and “Duodecimo” for successively smaller sizes as part of a quasi-scientific taxonomy presented in the chapter “Cetology.” For 10 points, name this author of The Confidence Man, White-Jacket, and Moby Dick.
Herman Melville
9

140889-)
A woman in this play purposefully says the words “lie” and “life” in a drawn out manner so as to illustrate that “Life is just a long drawn out lie with a sniffling sigh at the end.” At the end of this play, she redefines life as the title period of time “in the electrical display of God the Father!” after contentedly listening to the roar of her son’s plane overhead. A character in this play suffers a fatal stroke from excitedly cheering on his son at the rowing race that concludes its (*) eighth act. The film Animal Crackers mocks this play’s annoying gimmick of expressing characters’ thoughts through a burst of short phrases separated by ellipses. In this play, a woman conceives a child with the physician Ned Darrell after aborting her son with Sam Evans upon learning about his family’s hereditary insanity. For 10 points, name this Pulitzer-winning play about Nina Leeds, by Eugene O’Neill.
Strange Interlude
9

140890-)
The Penguin Classics cover of this novel features the silhouette of a city skyline dissolving into text from a passage declaring its title character to be “a gentleman on whom I built an absolute trust.” At a stoplight, a woman in this novel jumps out of her car and into a ditch to avoid being run over by her jealous husband. A character in this novel takes a baseball bat to the protagonist’s Mercedes-Benz to compel payment of a poker debt, most of which he then tosses off the top of a skyscraper. The title object of this novel is a (*) scenario for the film Caldofreddo to which its author earns the copyright by mailing it to himself eight years in the future. The protagonist of this novel refuses to marry his girlfriend Renata and is bullied into friendship by the gangster Rinaldo Cantabile. For 10 points, name this novel about Charlie Citrine’s bond with the title stand-in for Delmore Schwartz, which won a Pulitzer for its author Saul Bellow.
Humboldt’s Gift
9

140902-)
A paragraph-long sentence in this essay describes a beige-ish “color which can be described only as hotel-color,” and ends by describing “galvanized pipe scaffolding” yelling “Hey Michelangelo!” This essay argues that America was a country “which had grown by the leap of one hero past another.”  The author of this essay recounts his surprise when its subject told him in an interview that he had read “The Deer Park and… the others.” This article, which begins with a call to consider the (*) Democratic National Convention without “losing ourselves in the housing projects of facts and issues,” compares Richard Nixon to Uriah Heep and “the stale bread” of marriage. For 10 points, name this Esquire magazine profile by Norman Mailer, which hailed JFK as the existential hero America needed following his nomination for the presidency.
“Superman Comes to the Supermarket”
9

140903-)
A film in this novel contains the Trumpean image of state troopers “grabbing handcuffed girls by the pussy” while evicting members of a commune in Texas. In this novel, a paralyzing “Death Touch” is employed by members of an all-female ninja collective called the Sisterhood of Kunoichi Attentives. The protagonist of this novel leaps through the plate-glass window of a local restaurant so as to qualify for his annual disability check. To bring down the leader of a secessionist nation called the People’s Republic of (*) Rock and Roll, this novel’s villain, the federal prosecutor Brock Vond, seduces the film collective member Frenesi Gates and makes her a double agent. Frenesi is also being sought by her daughter with this novel’s protagonist, a teenage employee of the Bodhi Dharma Pizza Parlor named Prairie. For 10 points, name this Thomas Pynchon novel in which the ex-hippie Zoyd Wheeler lives in a fictional Northern California town.
Vineland
9

140904-)
A character gets the idea to do this job after people throw old food at him. As he does this job, a character from a play set in an exact replica of the “Great Hole of History” repeats the phrases “little ringing in the ears” and a “slight deafness.” A man who holds this job at an arcade worries that they’ll replace him with a wax sculpture so he starts playing a game in which “you pick that red card you pick a loser you pick thuh black card thuh deuce of spades you pick a winner.” Because he has long (*) legs and a short torso, a Digger has this job in The America Play. A character who is so obsessed with three-card monte that he eventually changes his name to “3-card” hates that his brother performs this job by whitening his face, wearing a fake beard and top hat, and allowing people to shoot him. For 10 points, name this job that Booth’s brother does in Suzan-Lori Parks’ Topdog/Underdog.
impersonating Abraham Lincoln [descriptions are fine; prompt on impersonating someone]
9

140907-)
A section of this poem declares that “necessity and that presentation / Are rubbings of a glass in which we peer,” and ends by assuring that: “Time will write them down.” It observes that “From this the poem springs: that we live in a place / That is not our own and, much more, not ourselves.” This poem’s final, unnumbered set of seven tercets begins: “Soldier, there is a war between the mind / And sky, between thought and day and night. It is / For that the poet is always in the (*) sun.” This poem asks “And for what, except for you, do I feel love?” in its dedication to the art collector Henry Church, which is followed by its opening command: “Begin, ephebe, by perceiving the idea / Of this invention.” The titles of this poem’s three divisions specify that its title ideal artform “must be abstract,” “must change,” and “must give pleasure.” For 10 points, name this poetic manifesto by Wallace Stevens.
“Notes Toward a Supreme Fiction”
9

140909-)
This author declared that “It is art that makes life… and I know of no substitute whatever for the force and beauty of its process,” in a letter responding to a critic who had likened his novels to a dead kitten atop a church altar. In his edition of this author’s letters, Leon Edel included two long-suppressed messages he addressed to his siblings during a delirium in which he thought he was Napoleon. He wrote that he was tormented by “the sense that I can’t help you, see you, talk to you, touch you, hold you close and long” in a (*) homoerotic letter addressed to the Norwegian-American sculptor Hendrik Christian Andersen. The narrator of a novella by this author rents a room in a Venetian palazzo and woos Tita Bordereau as part of a scheme to acquire the love letters addressed to Tita’s aunt Juliana by an American poet. For 10 points, name this author of The Aspern Papers, who exchanged many warm letters with his psychologist brother William.
Henry James
9

140914-)
The speaker wishes to see “Night and the water, and you in your whiteness, bathing!” in a poem by this author that begins with a torrent “Gushing from the mouths of stone men / To spread at ease under the sky.” The speaker of another poem by this author laments that “When I go away from you / The world beats dead / like a slackened drum.” The speaker of a poem by this author recalls a man following her through a maze, “Bewildered by [h]er laughter,” mourning, “In a month he would have been my (*) husband.” This author’s poems “In the Garden” and “The Taxi” were inspired by her relationship with the Mormon actress Ada Dwyer Russell. This recipient of a posthumous Pulitzer for What’s O’Clock, wrote a poem whose speaker cries: “Christ! What are [the title objects] for?” For 10 points, name this Imagist author of the collection Men, Women, and Ghosts, which contains the poem “Patterns.”
Amy Lowell [or Amy Lawrence Lowell]
9

140916-)
The speaker of a poem from this sequence laments that he “cannot touch your hand and look / Too, into that godless cleft of sky / Where nothing turns but dead sands flashing.” This sequence ends by declaring the “imaged Word… that holds / Hushed willows anchored in its glow,” to be the “unbetrayable reply / Whose accent no farewell can know.” The second poem in this sequence stipulates that “the seal’s wide spindrift gaze toward paradise” should be “answered in the vortex of our grave,” in its entreaty to “O (*) minstrel galleons of Carib fire” to “bequeath us to no earthly shore.” The speaker watches as “Bright striped urchins flay each other with sand” in the first of these poems, which appear after “At Melville’s Tomb” as the final entry of the volume White Buildings. For 10 points, name this sequence of six poems portraying the author’s relationship with the Danish sailor Emil Opffer as a mystical sea-journey, written by Hart Crane.
“Voyages”
9

140923-)
In a novel by this author, the protagonist has sex with three women at the same time as his wife is being truncheoned to death next door. The protagonist of a novel by this author lives with his daughter on an island where he artificially inseminates cows. A newspaper column called “Slyter Says” introduces every chapter of a novel by this author, in which the protagonist’s lodger William Hencher gets trampled to death while helping to steal Rock Castle. In a novel by this author, the Duke corners a boy, dismembers him with his sword, ties the organs inside the boy’s jacket, and (*) cooks the remains for the singer Madam Snow. This author of Second Skin and The Cannibal is best known for a novel set in a bombed-out post-World War II England, in which the couple Margaret and Michael Banks get roped into a racehorse scheme. For 10 points, name this postmodern American author best known for his novel The Lime Twig.
John Hawkes [or John Clendennin Talbot Burne Hawkes, Jr.]
9

140924-)
This book presents the image of two “human atoms” holding each other tightly, each thinking: “I have come to this lonely place and here is this other.” A character in this book brings a lamb to the woods with the intention of burning it to receive a message from God, but after he pulls out the knife, his grandson panics and knocks him out by throwing a stone at his forehead. A character in this book entrusts a boy with the secret of human life, namely “that everyone in the world is Christ and they are all crucified.” In its first section, a (*) writer lies in bed watching all the people he has ever known pass before his eyes, and decides to record their memories in a “Book of the Grotesque.” In its first story, Adolph Myers flees Pennsylvania after his students accuse him of molesting them with his overactive hands, and changes his name to Wing Biddlebaum. For 10 points, name this set of linked stories about the small town upbringing of George Willard, by Sherwood Anderson.
Winesburg, Ohio
9

140928-)
A character in this novel refuses to believe that Great Expectations ends with Pip and Estella “being happy ever after,” because “he never believed that about anyone.” A paper company in this novel purposefully creates a logjam, drowning a couple camping nearby. A subplot in this novel follows a woman who works as an electrician at a shipyard and has a lesbian affair with her coworker Lorna. The protagonist of this novel gets a conservative board to approve his successor, by passing him off as a (*) fictive ex-missionary named “Fuzzy Stone.” In this novel, after Wally Worthington’s plane is shot down in Burma, his girlfriend Candy Kendall conceives a child with Homer Wells, a guest at their orchard near the Maine Coast. For 10 points, name this novel in which Wilbur Larch performs abortions as the staff doctor for the St. Cloud’s orphanage, written by John Irving.
The Cider House Rules
9

140931-)
A character from a play by this author extracts a confession from a man by twisting one of his arms and demanding that he stick the other in the garbage disposal. In a play by this author, Sharon Graham abruptly exits the stage in the first act so she can vomit, before returning in the second to rehearse reading the letter from Macbeth. Each character in a play by this author tells the audience the exact time and place of their death as they perform a drag rendition of Swan Lake. Maria (*) Callas teaches a demanding course for prospective opera singers in this author’s play Master Class. Buzz kisses James’s dark chest lesion and Ramon seduces Bobby in the kitchen when he goes to get a midnight snack, in this author’s play about eight gay men who go on vacation in upstate New York. For 10 points, name this playwright whose four Tony Award-winning plays from the 1990s include Love! Valour! Compassion!
Terrence McNally
9

140932-)
This essay states that just as limestone is made up of fossilized animals, so too does language comprise words removed from the power they held when first coined. This essay quotes a stanza from Spenser’s “An Hymn In Honour of Beauty” to beckon the reader “before the secret of the world, there where Being passes into Appearance, and Unity into Variety.” This essay states that “words are also actions, and actions are a kind of words” shortly after proclaiming its title (*) professional a representative of the Beauty that created the Universe. Walt Whitman took a paragraph from this essay declaring that the “ample geography” of America “dazzles the imagination, and it will not wait long for metres,” as a personal challenge to write Leaves of Grass. For 10 points, name this Ralph Waldo Emerson essay extolling authors of verse.
“The Poet”
9

140934-)
A variation on this phrase precedes a quotation of Edward Dahlberg’s declaration that “I won’t weep over Poe, or Rilke, or Dickinson, or Gogol, while I turn away the few waifs and Ishmaels of the spirit in this country.” Allen Ginsberg wrote that all of his poems progress toward a “renewal of human objectivity” which he took to be “ultimately identical” to this phrase, in a letter to its coiner that was later incorporated into “The Run to the Sea,” the fourth book of the poem in which this phrase first appeared. The lines “nothing but the (*) blank faces of the houses / and cylindrical trees / bent, forked by preconception and accident” follow an instance of this phrase. In a section marked “The Delineaments of the Giants,” the speaker commands “say it,” just before stating this phrase for the first time. For 10 points, name this recurring five-word phrase from Paterson, the poetic credo of William Carlos Williams.
“no ideas but in things” [accept “no ideas but in the facts,” which is true for the first line]
9

140937-)
Because he advises a woman fretting about her misaligned curtains to “paint them black on the inside, and shut up,” the protagonist of this story gets his family disinvited from a party at her house. A woman in this story concludes that her husband no longer loves her because of the piles of dirty laundry he leaves everywhere. In its last section, the neighborhood dog Jupiter fetches a slipper as the protagonist works on a coffee table, following the advice of the psychiatrist Dr. Herzog. The protagonist of this story seduces his replacement (*) housekeeper Anne Murchison, and insults the college student Clayton Thomas upon learning that he is engaged to her. This story opens with its protagonist surviving the emergency landing of his plane from Minneapolis, but nobody particularly caring. For 10 points, name this story about Francis Weed’s dissatisfaction with life in the suburb of Shady Hill, by John Cheever.
“The Country Husband”
9

140941-)
This author’s use of veiled allusions was termed an “omitted center” in a 1960 study by Jay Leyda. The author of a 1976 essay travels “at the speed of time” towards the house of this writer, whom she describes as “Vesuvius at Home.” Until Thomas Johnson’s 1955 edition of this writer’s collected poems, editors frequently ignored the order specified in the “fascicle” manuscripts. This author was described as the American Marquis de Sade in (*) Sexual Personae, which purports to be about “art and decadence from Nefertiti” to this author. This author’s collected poems were first posthumously published by Mabel Loomis Todd. This author’s correspondence with Thomas Wentworth Higginson led some to conjecture that she addressed her “Master Letters” to him. For 10 points, name this subject of John Cody’s psychoanalytic After Great Pain and Jerome Charyn’s recent A Loaded Gun, a reclusive American poet.
Emily Dickinson
9

140944-)
A woman in this novel describes struggling against her father, brother, cousins, and uncles in a brief monologue she begins by declaring: “All my life I had to fight.” The final section of this novel, which begins: “Dear God. Dear stars, dear trees, dear sky, dear peoples. Dear Everything,” describes an upcoming family reunion at a Fourth of July barbecue. A character in this novel bellows “Hell no” when a mayor asks her to be his maid, prompting the mayor to slap her and her to knock him out in return, earning her a (*) twelve year sentence as his maid anyway. In this novel, the son of a missionary scars his face in solidarity with his African wife Tashi’s female circumcision. The protagonist of this novel begins writing to God after her father Alphonse sexually assaults her, and is initiated into sex by the lounge singer Shug Avery. For 10 points, name this novel about the upbringing of Celie in rural Georgia, by Alice Walker.
The Color Purple
9

140945-)
This critic opined that artists cannot be accused of superficiality when creating worlds because the superficiality is the world, in an essay comparing those worlds to systems of non-Euclidean geometry. This critic called Finnegan's Wake “merely beautiful nonsense” and ridiculed close reading as the “lemon-squeezer school of criticism” in a lecture delivered at the University of Minnesota, titled “The Frontiers of Criticism.” This critic wrote the oft-misquoted line “Immature poets (*) imitate; mature poets steal,” in his essay on Philip Massinger. This author helped rejuvenate the popularity of poets like Cowley and Marvell in a 1921 essay. He posited that art can only provoke genuine emotion through an “objective correlative” in an essay about the artistic failure of a Shakespeare play. For 10 points, name this critic who collected his essay “Hamlet and His Problems” in The Sacred Wood.
T.S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]
9

140989-)
A   poem   about   this   event   inspired   by   Horace   notes   how   the   god   Jupiter   “galloped   his thunder   cart   and   horses   across   a   clear   blue   sky”.   In   a   short   story   contained   the   collection    Oblivion , Skip   Atwater   is   tasked   with   writing   an   article   about   the   artist   Brint   Moltke,   scheduled   to   be published    (+)    a   day   before   this   event.   While   investigating   the   possible   money   laundering   of “hashslingrz”,   Maxine   Tarnow   takes   back   her   husband   Horst   shortly   after   this   event   in   the   novel (*)    Bleeding   Edge .   Oskar   Schell   goes   on   a   year   long   search   to   find   the   lock   which   a   key   his   father   who died   during   this   event   left   him   in   the   novel    Extremely   Loud   and   Incredibly   Close .   Keith   Neudecker   meets another   survivor   of   this   event   in   a   novel   which   describes   performances   named   after   a   famous   picture   of this   event   taken   by   Richard   Drew.   For   10   points,   identify   this   event,   the   subject   of   Don   DeLillo’s   novel Falling   Man
9/11    [accept   “September   11   attacks”]
7

140999-)
This   character   finds   the   bones   of   Nancy   lying   in   a   ditch   and   notes   that   she   was   “shot   by Roskus”.   At   the   opening   of   one   novel,   this   character,   originally   named   Maury,   helps    (+)   Luster search   for   a   missing   quarter   on   a   golf   course   which   reminds   him   of   his   sister,   who   he   thinks   smells like   trees.   One   of   this   character’s   brothers   and   father   considering   castrating    (*)   him   after   he   scares some   schoolgirls   and   is   attacked   by   one   of   their   fathers.   This   character,   the   narrator   of   the   section   “April Seventh,   1928”,   is   the   only   one   of   his   siblings   to   hear   Reverend   Shegog’s   sermon   on   Easter   Sunday   with the   maid   Dilsey.   For   10   points,   name   this   mentally   handicapped   member   of   the   Compson   family   from William   Faulkner’s    The   Sound   and   the   Fury .
Benjy   Compson    [accept   either   underlined   part;   accept   “Maury”   before   mentioned;   prompt   on “Compson”   after   it’s   mentioned]
7

141011-)
This man wrote an article about the employees at the Office of Economic Opportunity in San Francisco, whom he dubbed "Flak Catchers" taking abuse from "mau-mauers." In another article, this man described how members of the Black Panthers met at a celebrity-packed fundraising party at Leonard Bernstein’s apartment that this author dubbed "radical chic." This early practitioner of "New Journalism" described the self-absorbed 1970s as the "Me" Decade. He wrote a seemingly firsthand account of being on a psychedelic school bus with Ken Kesey and the Merry Pranksters, as well as a chronicle of Chuck Yeager and the Mercury Seven astronauts. For 10 points, name this author of The Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test and The Right Stuff.
Thomas Kennerly "Tom" Wolfe Jr. [do not accept "Thomas Clayton Wolfe"] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
7

141026-)
The title character of a poem by this author owns a copy of Caesar's Commentaries and hangs the severed head of an enemy on the roof of a fort. He wrote a poem about a youth who dies climbing the Alps while carrying a banner with a "strange device" emblazoned with the title Latin word. This author exclaimed "Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal" in a poem encouraging the reader to "leave behind footprints on the sands of time." This poet of "Excelsior" and "A Psalm of Life" included the retort "Why don't you speak for yourself, John?" in his poem about the title character's love triangle with Priscilla and John Alden. For 10 points, name this 19th-century American poet of "The Courtship of Miles Standish."
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow &lt;Mehr&gt;
7

141030-)
A character in this novel is beaten to demonstrate that "definitions belonged to the definers—not the defined." A woman in this novel seeks refuge from the world in a ring of boxwood bushes that she calls her "Emerald Closet." A group of thirty women arrive at this novel's central location to perform a supernatural rite, which prompts one of its main characters to attack a teacher with an ice pick. Its characters include Lady Jones, who despises her blond hair, and Baby Suggs, who dies in its opening pages. Its main characters travel from Sweet Home to 124 Bluestone Road in Cincinnati, where the presence of a dead child haunts Sethe (SETH-uh). For 10 points, name this novel about the psychological aftereffects of escaping from slavery, written by Toni Morrison.
Beloved &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141041-)
The first chapter of this novel claims "It is hard to laugh at the need for beauty and romance" because "few things are sadder than the truly monstrous." This novel's final chapter describes a restless crowd of people who move to the "land of sunshine and oranges," only to "burn with resentment" because they have "slaved and saved for nothing." It ends with its main character imitating the sound of a siren after being caught in a riot outside Kahn's Persian Palace Theatre. At a party in this novel, Miguel is discovered in bed with Faye Greener, which goads Homer Simpson into violence. This novel follows an artist who aspires to paint "The Burning of Los Angeles," Tod Hackett. For 10 points, name this Nathanael West novel set in Hollywood.
The Day of the Locust &lt;Mehr&gt;
7

141044-)
In a novel by an author with this last name, a schoolteacher resigns his position to marry the strip dancer Rosa after he had adopted the nickname "garbage" to express his antipathy towards the world. Two siblings with this surname wrote the nonfiction accounts Escape to Life and School for Barbarians. Erika, a writer with this surname, married W. H. Auden to flee from Europe to England. This is the surname of Heinrich, whose book Professor Unrat was adapted into the movie The Blue Angel. An author with this surname wrote a novel in which Tony agrees to her father's wishes by marrying the bankrupt Grünlich in a series of financial disasters for the title family of Lübeck merchants. For 10 points, identify this surname of Thomas, the author of Buddenbrooks.
Mann [or Thomas Mann; or Heinrich Mann; or Erika Mann; or Klaus Mann] &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141056-)
This poem's speaker says of a group of men, "whence they came and whither they shall go the dew upon their feet shall manifest." This poem describes "the dark encroachment of that old catastrophe" on a day "like wide water, without sound." This poem's speaker asks, "And shall the earth seem all of paradise that we shall know?" in a stanza beginning, "Jove in the clouds had his inhuman birth." In this poem's last stanza, a woman hears a voice that cries, "The tomb in Palestine is not the porch of spirits lingering," and pigeons sink "downward to darkness, on extended wings." For 10 points, name this atheistic Wallace Stevens poem set at the weekly time of Christian churchgoing.
"Sunday Morning" &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141077-)
An analogue of this figure is said to be the only one of the giant race of the jentillak (JEN-tee-lahk) to survive the arrival of Christianity. That analogue of this figure slits the throats of sinners with a sickle and is the Basque Olentzero. In some stories, this figure's attendant uses a bag of ashes to beat those who do not pray; that assistant is the robe-wearing Knecht Ruprecht. A more sinister companion of this figure carries ruten, or bundles of birch branches, and is a fanged, horned being resembling a demonic goat. "The skepticism of a skeptical age" prevents some from believing in this figure, according to an editorial arguing that this figure exists. For 10 points, name this companion of Krampus, about whom Virginia O'Hanlon famously sent a letter to the New York Sun, and who gives out toys on Christmas.
Santa Claus [or Saint Nicholas; or Old Saint Nick; or Kris Kringle; or any other names of Santa Claus; accept Olentzero until read] &lt;Golfinos&gt;
7

141078-)
The protagonist of a story set in this city recounts meeting a horse with a "nameless sorrow" and an old match seller on the street. Another story set here relates a man's failures with his "Homecoming in the Snow." Those stories appear in "Looking Back," the final part of a collection set in this city. In a novel set here, a man loses his arm when he is pushed out of a speeding car by a man who later rapes and kills his prostitute girlfriend, Meize. William Bradshaw eats breakfast in this city with the title character of Mr. Norris Changes Trains, which is often paired with a collection featuring Sally Bowles. Franz Biberkopf lives near the Alexanderplatz in, for 10 points, what city, the setting of collections by Robert Walser and Christopher Isherwood?
Berlin [or Berlin Stories] &lt;Mehr&gt;
7

141089-)
At the end of a novel by this author, the narrator muses "whatever we had missed, we possessed together the precious, the incommunicable past." A novel by this author is set in Sweet Water and traces Neil Herbert's study of the decline of the title wife of Captain Forrester. She wrote a bildungsroman (BILL-doongs-ro-MAHN) about a woman who moves from Moonstone, Colorado, to Chicago to become an opera singer. This author of A Lost Lady wrote a novel about Thea Kronborg, as well as a nostalgic novel narrated by Jim Burden, who reminisces about his childhood growing up in Nebraska with the title Bohemian girl. For 10 points, name this American author of The Song of the Lark and My Antonia.
Willa Cather &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141103-)
This novel inspired authors like Mary Henderson Eastman and Caroline Lee Hentz to write responses refuting its themes. George Aiken adapted this novel for namesake popular "shows" that caricatured its plot and characters. The National Era originally serialized this novel, in which a family is pursued by Marks and Tom Loker. In a subplot in this novel, Ophelia overcomes her prejudices to care for a young girl named Topsy. Eva St. Clare dies after befriending this novel's title character after Eliza Harris makes a daring escape across the ice-filled Ohio River. It ends with its Christlike title character being killed by Simon Legree. For 10 points, name this antislavery novel written by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Uncle Tom's Cabin &lt;Magin&gt;
7

141121-)
A novel about this profession ends with Henry Wiggen lamenting "from here on in, I rag nobody" after Bruce Pearson dies of Hodgkin's disease. Ring Lardner wrote many short stories about people in this profession, including "Hurry Kane" and "Alibi Ike." Mark Harris's novel Bang the Drum Slowly follows members of this profession, who are the subject of decades of New Yorker essays written by Roger Angell. Eliot Asinof dramatized a scandal involving members of this profession in his book Eight Men Out. A Franklin Pierce Adams poem about this profession begins "these are the saddest of possible words: Tinker to Evers to Chance." For 10 points, name this profession described in Ernest Thayer's poem "Casey at the Bat."
baseball player [accept specific types like pitcher, catcher, infielder, shortstop, or outfielder; prompt on athlete; prompt on ballplayer] &lt;Thompson&gt;
7

141132-)
In a story by this author, Mrs. Morris is bemused by tales of her daughter's new friend, Drill, who has promised the neighborhood children they won't have to take baths. That story by this man ends with Mink saying "Peekaboo" to her horrified family hiding in the attic. In another story by this author, a voice recites a Sara Teasdale poem and later repeatedly proclaims "Today is April 5, 2026." One story by this man features a children's game that turns out to be a pretext for an alien invasion. Another story by this author features a computer-controlled house whose occupants have been wiped out by nuclear war. For 10 points, name this author of the stories "Zero Hour" and "There Will Come Soft Rains," who also created fireman Guy Montag in the novel Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Bradbury &lt;Thompson&gt;
7

141135-)
In a novel by an author with this last name, a man is surprised to discover he's the focal point of the religion of Sunchildism. An earlier author with this last name created the squire Ralpho in his satirical poem about a traveling knight in the aftermath of the English Civil War. An author with this name wrote a satirical novel in which people are thrown in jail for being sick and treated in hospitals for committing crimes. This last name is shared by the poet of Hudibras and an author who created a society that worships the deity Ydgrun, conducts business at musical banks, has abolished all machinery, and is named for an anagram of the word "nowhere." For 10 points, identify this last name of the author of the utopian novel Erewhon.
Butler [or Samuel Butler] &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141143-)
A character created by this author contrasts "spiritually married" and "spiritually unmarried" men while defending socialism to Mr. Ferrenby. A novel by this author ends by describing a generation "grown up to find all gods dead, all wars fought, all faiths in man shaken." In his notebooks, he wrote "Show me a hero and I'll write you a tragedy." This author wrote a novel in which the narrator tells the title character "you can't repeat the past," causing the title character to reply "Can't repeat the past? Why of course you can!" He ended a novel with the line "So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past." For 10 points, name this American author of This Side of Paradise and The Great Gatsby.
F. Scott Fitzgerald &lt;Magin&gt;
7

141157-)
In this novel, a man wipes blood from his nose on the protagonist's cheeks as he demands she return his diamond stickpin to him. This novel's protagonist and all but one of her peers are poisoned by crabmeat-stuffed avocado pears at a catered event. The protagonist of this novel hemorrhages after losing her virginity to a young mathematics professor named Irwin and is taken to the emergency room by Joan, who later hangs herself. Under the supervision of Doctor Nolan, this novel's suicidal narrator receives successful electroshock treatments. For 10 points, name this autobiographical novel about Esther Greenwood written by Sylvia Plath.
The Bell Jar &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141177-)
In a story by this author, a man is offended when he is accused of theft for picking up logs discarded from the steamer Magic. This author wrote a story whose main character compares a wind front to his relationship with Marjorie while drinking with his friend Bill. This author of "The Doctor and the Doctor's Wife" and "The Three-Day Blow" created a character who catches burnt grasshoppers to use as fishing bait after returning home to Michigan from World War One. In another story by this author, that character watches his father perform a Caesarian section in a Native American village. For 10 points, name this author whose character Nick Adams appears in the stories "Indian Camp" and "Big Two-Hearted River."
Ernest Hemingway &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141184-)
At one point in this book, the author is dragged through a field of young crops by his friend, who says that the act pales in comparison to the murder of his family. During the "shock stage" in this book, the author asks what happened to his friend "P," and is told that he is "floating up to heaven" by a man pointing to a chimney. Near the end of this book, the author argues in favor of a Statue of Responsibility to be erected on the west coast of America. Its author concludes that "those who knew that there was a task waiting for them to fulfill were most apt to survive." The author of this book describes the shock, apathy, and depersonalization that occurred after being placed in a Nazi concentration camp. For 10 points, name this 1946 book intended as an "introduction to logotherapy," written by Viktor Frankl.
Man's Search for Meaning: An Introduction to Logotherapy &lt;Cheyne&gt;
7

141198-)
In a 2000 novel by Joyce Carol Oates, this real-life person is murdered by a government agent called the Sharpshooter. This woman's affair with Yves Montand (EEVZ mon-TAWN) is dramatized in the 2004 play Finishing the Picture. A character who represents this real-life person downs most of a bottle of pills and a bottle of whiskey in the second act of a play in which her lover Quentin calls an ambulance to take her away. This person is represented by Maggie in a play whose set includes a concentration camp tower. This actress portrayed Roslyn Tabor in a movie written by her husband, The Misfits. Her suicide inspired many of the interpersonal scenes in the play After the Fall. For 10 points, name this actress once married to Arthur Miller.
Marilyn Monroe [or Norma Jean Baker] &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141217-)
Virginia Woolf highlighted a symbolic passage in this novel in which a plain earthenware pot allows the reader to see into the human soul. A religious theme in this novel develops parallels between a Christian god and the deity Benamuckee. The protagonist of this novel builds a dwelling he nicknames his fortress, in which he inscribes the date September 30 on a wooden cross. The main character of this novel embarks on a disastrous voyage from his plantation in Brazil to buy slaves in Guinea. This book's title character traps goats and learns to grow crops while surviving for several years on an island where he encounters a native he names Friday. For 10 points, name this novel by Daniel Defoe.
Robinson Crusoe &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141235-)
This character's future husband accidentally forgets to take off a paper soldier hat while reading Friedrich Schiller's depiction of the death of Wallenstein to her. This character fails to tell her sister about a section of thin ice on a river in a chapter in which this character "meets Apollyon." She first meets one of her friends while hiding behind a curtain to avoid boys at Sallie Gardiner's New Year's Eve party. After inheriting her aunt's estate, Plumfield, this character converts it into a school with her husband, Professor Bhaer. This aspiring writer declines a marriage proposal from her neighbor, Laurie. For 10 points, name this tomboyish sister of Meg, Beth, and Amy in Louisa May Alcott's Little Women.
Jo March [or Josephine March, or Josephine Bhaer; prompt on "March" or "Bhaer"] &lt;Sy&gt;
7

141246-)
A poet with this surname wrote about flowers that have "forgotten" their "Eastern origin" and become "decent" and "reticent" in America in a poem that describes them as "False Blue, White, Purple." That author with this surname reacted to the death of her fiancée, Lord Hartwell, by writing a poem that ends by asking "Christ! What are the [title objects] for?" An Imagist poet with this last name wrote "Lilacs" and "Patterns." An author with this surname warned that "a savage servility / slides by on grease" in a poem arguing that the Robert Gould Shaw Memorial "sticks like a fishbone" in the throat of Boston. For 10 points, identify this surname shared by the American poets Amy and Robert, the author of "For the Union Dead."
Lowell [or Amy Lowell; or Robert Lowell] &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141251-)
In 2004, the author of this play wrote a prequel in which one of its characters is slapped across the face by his wife Ann. This play is dedicated to its author's lover William Flanagan, and focuses on a character who has two parakeets, one for each of his daughters. A monologue in this play recounts how a character inserted rat poison in hamburger meat in order to murder his landlady's pet black dog. At the end of this one-act play, one of its main characters begins tickling a man before forcing him to fight for his spot on a park bench. During that confrontation, one of this play's two characters hands the other a knife and impales himself on it. For 10 points, name this play in which Jerry confronts Peter in Central Park, written by Edward Albee.
The Zoo Story &lt;Belal&gt;
7

141259-)
The speaker of a poem by this author notes that he sees the title landscape when he tries to imagine "a faultless love or the life to come." This author argued that "poetry makes nothing happen" in a poem whose final lines urge poets to "teach the free man how to praise." In that poem, this author repeats that the day of the title character's death was "a dark cold day." This author declared "we must love one another or die" in a poem that begins with the speaker sitting in "one of the dives / on Fifty-second street," written in response to the outbreak of World War II. This author of "In Praise of Limestone" eulogized the poet of "The Second Coming" in his poem "In Memory of W. B. Yeats." For 10 points, name this English poet of "September 1, 1939."
Wystan Hugh Auden &lt;Fulgenzi&gt;
7

141267-)
The only spoken dialogue in a story by this author is when a man twice calls a group of police gentlemen and declares "this is a very well-constructed house." The narrator of a story by this author walks into his living companion's room with a shaded lantern on eight consecutive nights. While at a bar, the narrator of a story by this writer spots an animal with a white birthmark that reminds him of the shape of a gallows. He wrote a story in which the narrator is intensely disturbed by the pale blue "vulture eye" of an old man and a story in which a man murders his wife with an axe while trying to kill the title pet. For 10 points, name this author who examined the guilt of criminals in his short stories "The Black Cat" and "The Tell-Tale Heart."
Edgar Allan Poe &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141291-)
In a novella by this author, the narrator pretends to be a gardening enthusiast so that he can let a room at an absurdly high price from two old spinsters in a Venetian mansion. In that novella by this man, the narrator is a literary scholar who is desperate to obtain a set of letters written to Juliana Bordereau by the fictional American poet Jeffrey Aspern. This author also created the gold-digging loafer Morris Townsend, who woos the naive daughter of Dr. Sloper, a resident of the title New York neighborhood. He also created the brooding expatriate Gilbert Osmond, who marries the American heiress Isabel Archer. For 10 points, name this American novelist of Washington Square and The Portrait of a Lady.
Henry James &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141309-)
A character in this play remembers a time when his son hit him in the face, before exclaiming "Rotten kid! I hate tough kids! You work your heart out…." Another character in this play times himself walking forty feet while mimicking an old man hobbling with a cane, determining that it actually took 39 seconds instead of 15 seconds. A character in this play delivers a racist monologue claiming that "those people" don't care if someone gets killed, causing the other characters to walk away and turn their backs to him. In this Reginald Rose play, many of the title characters change their minds when they realize that a fatal wound was made by stabbing downward instead of upward. For 10 points, name this play later adapted into a film, in which a young man is finally found not guilty by the title jury.
Twelve Angry Men &lt;Magin&gt;
7

141322-)
This author wrote "it is late at night and still I am losing, but still I am steady and unaccusing" in his poem "In Dives' Dive." A five-part poem by this author includes sections called "Loneliness" and "House Fear," and ends with a man learning of "finalities / besides the grave." A woman argues "But the world's evil. I won't have grief so / If I can change it" in a poem by this author that begins "He saw her from the bottom of the stairs / Before she saw him." This author of "The Hill-Wife" wrote a poem in which Silas's return causes Warren to tell his wife Mary that "home is the place where, when you have to go there, they have to take you in." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Home Burial" and "The Death of the Hired Man."
Robert Frost &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141332-)
In this novel's 11th chapter, "The Arched Window," a character is horrified by the greed of an organ grinder's performing monkey. A laborer in this novel forces a young girl named Alice to walk through snow wearing just an evening gown, resulting in her death from pneumonia. Throughout this novel, its main characters tirelessly search for the deed to a huge claim of land in Maine. The daguerreotypist Holgrave recounts the history of this novel's central family, whose ancestor is afflicted with the curse "God will give him blood to drink" after hanging Matthew Maule. A portrait of that 17th-century judge haunts Phoebe and Hepzibah, who live in this novel's title structure. For 10 points, name this Gothic novel about the Pyncheon family, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The House of the Seven Gables &lt;Belal&gt;
7

141348-)
In one of these works, the title character unwittingly convinces thieving servants of his clairvoyance after he follows sarcastic instructions to buy an alphabet book with a picture of a rooster in it. In addition to "Doctor All-Knowing," these works include one in which a woman longs for a daughter with hair black as her window frame and blood-red lips after she pricks her finger while sewing. In another one of these stories, a house with windows made of sugar and a roof of cake is discovered by two children who leave a trail of breadcrumbs behind them. For 10 points, name these stories including "Snow White" and "Hansel and Gretel" that were collected by two German brothers.
Grimms' fairy tales [or Grimms' household tales; or Grimms' children's tales; or Grimms' folk tales; or Hausmärchen; or Kindermärchen; prompt on fairy tales; prompt on household tales; prompt on children's tales; prompt on folk tales] &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141352-)
This author wrote that "the only sin is limitation" in a consideration of intellectual progress that maintains "our life is an apprenticeship to the truth, that around" each of the title figures "another can be drawn." In another work, this author argued that it makes no difference if his impulses come from heaven or hell, claiming "if I am the Devil's child, I will live then from the Devil." He wrote "dream delivers us to dream, and there is no end to illusion" in an essay that begins by describing his grief at the death of his son Waldo. One of his essays argues that "a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds" and claims "whoso would be a man must be a nonconformist." For 10 points, name this American essayist of "Circles," "Experience," and "Self-Reliance."
Ralph Waldo Emerson &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141365-)
A character in this story describes how he always signs everything so he can hold up the crime to the punishment, see if they match, and determine whether he's been treated fairly. That character snarls that there's no pleasure in life but meanness if Jesus never raised the dead. This story ends with a man telling Bobby Lee that its protagonist would have been a good woman if somebody was there "to shoot her every minute of her life." This story's self-absorbed protagonist encourages her son Bailey to turn onto a rural dirt road, resulting in an accident that leads to her family's death at the hands of an escaped convict. For 10 points, name this story in which the Grandmother's family is killed by The Misfit, written by Flannery O'Connor.
"A Good Man Is Hard to Find" &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141378-)
In a play, one of these objects gradually loses its resemblance to Pan and becomes more Mephistophelean over the span of 14 years. In that play, a character who takes this object from his best friend dies next to the prostitute Cybel. This type of object is used to describe the faces of the Mannon family as well as the temple portico of the house where they live throughout Mourning Becomes Electra. In another play, Dion Anthony uses this type of object to secure Margaret's hand in marriage before Billy Brown uses it to impersonate him. Throughout The Great God Brown, the main characters wear these objects. For 10 points, name this type of object that Eugene O'Neill used in several plays to fix the facial expressions of actors.
masks &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141390-)
One of this author's poems describes a row of cans that softly say "ESSO-SO-SO-SO" to "high-strung automobiles" before observing "somebody loves us all." In another poem by this author, victory fills up a "little rented boat" until everything becomes "rainbow, rainbow, rainbow," after the speaker sees an animal with "a five-haired beard of wisdom trailing from his aching jaw." This poet of "Filling Station" spent nearly two decades living in Brazil, which inspired her collection Questions of Travel. A villanelle by this poet advises the reader to "practice losing farther, losing faster" and repeats the line "the art of losing isn't hard to master." For 10 points, name this 20th-century American poet of "The Fish" and "One Art."
Elizabeth Bishop &lt;Belal&gt;
7

141404-)
This character is taught how to read after being caught stealing a copy of John Bunyan's The Life and Death of Mr. Badman from a library. Later, this character has sex with a young gay man named Willis before being worked to exhaustion by Reverend Alexander Eppes. The novel named for this character is mostly set in the village of Jerusalem, and ends with Judge Jeremiah Cobb sentencing him and his friend Hark to death. This man's prophetic vision of drops of blood on an ear of corn is described in a nonfiction book published by Thomas Gray. In a 1967 novel, he kills Margaret Whitehead during a rebellion that begins on Joseph Travis's farm. For 10 points, name this title character of a William Styron novel that recounts his "confessions."
Nat Turner [accept either underlined answer; or The Confessions of Nat Turner] &lt;Mehr&gt;
7

141412-)
This author mourned "Down, down, down into the darkness of the grave / Gently they go, the beautiful, the tender, the kind" in a poem that ends "I know. But I do not approve. And I am not resigned." This author of "Dirge Without Music" argued that heroes "seek release / from dusty bondage into luminous air" in a poem that celebrates the "holy, terrible day" in which the title character first saw a "vision" of "light anatomized." As a 19-year-old student, this poet became famous for writing a poem that begins "All I could see from where I stood / Was three long mountains and a wood." Her poems include "Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare" and "Renascence." For 10 points, name this author whose poem "First Fig" claims "My candle burns at both ends / It will not last the night."
Edna St. Vincent Millay &lt;Thompson&gt;
7

141422-)
The McGuffey Readers used many passages from this author to teach elocution to American students. In Democracy in America, de Tocqueville observed that every pioneer's hut he encountered had a copy of the Bible and at least one work by this author. The Astor Place Riot was sparked by the rivalry between William Charles Macready and Edwin Forrest over their interpretations of one of this author's characters. Edwin Booth's best-known role was playing one of this author's title characters. Actors like Edmund Kean became celebrities by touring America performing this author's plays. For 10 points, name this playwright who was wildly popular in the 19th-century United States, where companies frequently performed his plays Julius Caesar and Macbeth.
William Shakespeare &lt;Magin&gt;
7

141454-)
In one of this author’s stories, Doctor Cacophodel is one of eight adventurers in search of “The Great Carbuncle.” In another of his works, Beatrice’s garden work has made her poisonous. In addition to “Rappaccini’s Daughter,” this man wrote a novel in which land stolen from Matthew Maule is home to a house occupied by the (*) Pyncheon family. In perhaps the most famous work by this man, characters watch a meteor shower from atop a scaffold after Roger Chillingworth leaves his wife because she has committed adultery with Arthur Dimmesdale. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Hester Prynne in The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne &lt;CL&gt;
4

141709-)
One writer in this movement wrote Guilty of Everything and is named Herbert Huncke. Another writer in this movement wrote a book narrated by drug addict William Lee, Naked Lunch. In addition to William S. Burroughs, this movement included the founder of bookstore (*) City Lights. Works in this movement include one addressed to the writer’s mother, Naomi. That author of “Kaddish” was a member of this movement and also wrote a poem with repeats, “I’m with you in Rockland,” and opens, “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.” For 10 points, identify this American literary movement featuring works like Allen Ginsberg’s “Howl.”
The Beat Generation [accept Beat poetry; accept the Beatniks; accept most things that mention Beat] &lt;CL&gt;
4

141736-)
One poem calls this country a “cultured hell,” while in another, the speaker asks, “When will we end the human war?” This country has “sharp names that never get fat” according to one work, and one poet described “the varied carols” of this country in a poem which claimed he heard it singing. This country’s (*) “alabaster cities gleam” in a Katharine Lee Bates poem which urges God to “crown thy good with Brotherhood / From sea to shining sea!” For 10 points, identify this country with “purple mountain majesties” and “amber waves of grain,” as well as a capital at Washington D.C.
The United States of America [accept The United States; accept America; accept U.S.A.] &lt;CL&gt;
4

141759-)
In one work by this author, the corpse of a student of the philosophers Fichte and Schelling disappears after her daughter is given the name Morella. In another of his stories, Jupiter helps Legrand find Captain Kidd’s treasure. This author of “The Gold-Bug” also wrote about Minister D—, the thief of the title (*) “Purloined Letter,” in a work featuring the recurring character detective C. Auguste Dupin. Another story by this author features the family motto “Nemo me impune lacessit” and the murder of Fortunato by Montresor. For 10 points, name this author of short stories like “The Cask of Amontillado” in addition to poems like “The Raven.”
Edgar Allan Poe &lt;CL&gt;
4

141778-)
Ella Kaye received money that was almost this character’s inheritance, and this character puts in a song request for Tostoff’s Jazz History of the World. In one scene, this character makes a woman cry by throwing shirts. This St. Olaf’s drop-out “can’t really call [himself] an “Oxford man” but is described as a “regular Belasco” by (*) Owl Eyes at one of his parties. This man owns a yellow Rolls Royce, frequently calls people “old sport,” and often stares at a green light across the water in East Egg, thinking of Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this character, Nick Carraway’s neighbor and the title character of a novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Jay Gatsby [accept The Great Gatsby] &lt;AL&gt;
4

141789-)
This poet ended the title poem of one collection by describing “the drive / Into the red / Eye, the cauldron of morning.” In another poem, this writer said, “Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children” before noting the “domesticity of these windows.” This poet penned a work which includes the line (*) “Ich, ich, ich, ich” in addition to “The Munich Mannequins,” and in that poem, this writer describes the addressee as “A man in black with a Meinkampf look.” In that poem, this writer tells the addressee, “I have had to kill you,” before declaring, “you bastard, I’m through.” That addressee is “Daddy.” For 10 points, name this writer who wrote about Esther Greenwood in The Bell Jar.
Sylvia Plath &lt;CL&gt;
4

141806-)
One character in this play shouts, “Go then! Go to the moon -- you selfish dreamer!” after earlier remembering a past obsession with jonquils. Another character in this play explains, “Nowadays the world is lit by lightning!” and works at a shoe warehouse but is nicknamed “Shakespeare.” Yet another character in this play skips (*) typing classes to wander through the zoo. That character in this play, who used to be called “Blue Roses,” is heartbroken when her high school crush Jim admits he is engaged after breaking a miniature unicorn, one of the title collection of figurines. For 10 points, name this play about Tom, Amanda, and Laura Wingfield, a work by Tennessee Williams.
The Glass Menagerie &lt;CL&gt;
4

141842-)
One character in this play says with frustration, “I have fought here three long years to bend these stiff-necked people to me.” Mercy Lewis may have stolen one character’s life savings in this play, and at the end of this play, that character’s wife notably declares that he has “found his goodness.” Mary Warren is almost beaten in this play due to the gift of a (*) “poppet.” In this play, which features Giles Corey, a crowd gathers outside Reverend Parris’ house after suspicions arise over the actions of Tituba, and Elizabeth accuses Abigail of having an affair with John Proctor. For 10 points, name this Arthur Miller play about the Salem Witch trials.
The Crucible &lt;CL&gt;
4

141857-)
One character in this story tells the tale of a man with a blue beard named Doffue Martling. Another character in this story passes a tulip tree in which Major André is rumored to live. In this story, Brom Bones may pose as a (*) Hessian soldier hurt in “some nameless battle,” and this story was originally published in The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon. The protagonist of this story, a schoolmaster, hopes to marry Katrina van Tassel, but vanishes from town after encountering a headless horseman. For 10 points, identify this short story about Ichabod Crane, a work of Washington Irving.
“The Legend of Sleepy Hollow” [do not accept or prompt on partial or on “The Headless Horseman”] &lt;CL&gt;
4

141870-)
In addition to writing about George Caldwell in The Centaur, this author created a Jewish alter ego named Henry Bech. This author who set many works in Pennsylvania wrote a book in which Daryl Van Horne creates problems for a Rhode Island coven. In another work by him, “Queenie” and her friends come wearing only swimsuits to the title (*) “A&amp;P.” In addition to The Witches of Eastwick, this author wrote about a man who sells MagiPeels and whose wife Janice accidentally drowns his daughter, Rebecca June, in a bathtub. That man loves to reminisce about being a high school basketball star and is named Harry Angstrom. For 10 points, identify this author of the Rabbit series.
John (Hoyer) Updike &lt;CL&gt;
4

141889-)
.In this work, the minimum wage being lowered from thirty cents an hour to twenty-five cents an hour infuriates Mr. Thomas. A Jehova woman enters a tent of a dying woman in this work, wanting to create a prayer circle around her, and a woman’s knuckles are later shot off by a policeman when he attempts to shoot Floyd Knowles. One section of this work describes a (*) turtle crossing a road, and in this work, Connie Rivers abandons his wife who later breastfeeds a starving man and is named Rose of Sharon. In this novel, a pickaxe-wielding man kills former preacher Jim Casy. For 10 points, name this novel that follows the Joads on their way to California, a work of John Steinbeck.
The Grapes of Wrath &lt;RY&gt; Bonuses
4

141893-)
According to an essay by David Orr, “Everyone Loves” this poem but “Everyone Gets [it] Wrong.” A friendship with Edward Thomas inspired this poem, which is written in four stanzas of iambic tetrameter. The narrator of this poem, the first in Mountain Interval, “doubted if [he] should ever come back” because he knows “how (*) way leads on to way.” Later, that narrator of this poem says he will be explaining his decision “with a sigh / Somewhere ages and ages hence” though he was “sorry [he] could not travel both” of the “two roads diverged in a yellow wood.” For 10 points, identify this poem in which the narrator “took the one less traveled by,” a work of Robert Frost.
“The Road Not Taken” &lt;CL&gt;
4

141930-)
The current poet laureate of this state wrote the collection Thrall and the poem “Elegy for the Native Guards” and is named Natasha Trethewey. Works set in this state include one in which Phoenix Jackson walks the title road to get medicine for her grandson. That work is “A Worn Path” by Eudora Welty. Another work which opens in this state begins with the section (*) “Southern Night” and is a semi-autobiographical work by Richard Wright. Yet another work set in this state focuses on the Compson family. The home of the author of The Sound and the Fury, William Faulkner, for 10 points, name this state, the setting of books like Kathryn Stockett’s The Help, which examines society in Jackson.
Mississippi &lt;CL&gt;
4

141951-)
In one work, this poet asks, “Does not your soul possess the sacred flame?” In addition to “To Mæcenas,” (“may-see-ness”) this poet penned a work which wonders, “If there’s no heav’n . . . whither wilt thou go / Make thy Ilysium in the shades below?” This author of “An Address to the Atheist” proclaimed, “Behold the prophet in his tow’ring flight!” in a poem about the death of George (*) Whitefield. This author of Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral claims, “‘Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land” in another of her works. For 10 points, name this writer of “On Being Brought from Africa to America,” an African-American poet of the colonial period.
Phillis Wheatley &lt;CL&gt;
4

141955-)
The opening of this play sees one character remark that he gives “truth in the pleasant disguise of illusion.” That character later tells her sister to blow out her candles, claiming “nowadays the world is lit by lightning.” In this play, Amanda is unsuccessful in finding a “gentleman caller” for her daughter, who was given the nickname “Blue Roses” after a bout of pleurosis. That daughter, Laura, breaks the horn off of a unicorn while dancing with Jim O’Connor, exclaiming it looks “just like all the other horses” in the titular collection of animals. For 10 points, name this 1945 play about Tom and Laura Wingfield, written by Tennessee Williams.
The Glass Menagerie &lt;LG&gt;
4

141966-)
This novel features Joseph Faehmel’s girlfriend, Marianne, who tells of how her brother had been killed by her mother under the orders of her Nazi father. For 10 points each: [10]Name this novel in which an architect adopts the bellhop Hugo and gives him the first slice of a cake shaped like the Westminster Abbey.
The Clown &lt;DH&gt;
4

141985-)
One story set in this city sees Freddie Drummond create an alter ego named Big Bill Totts. That story, “South of the Slot,” is by Jack London. This city to which siblings Dave, Beth, and Toph move after the death of their parents is the setting for Dave Eggers’ A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius. Joel Cairo offers $5,000 for a black figurine of a bird that had arrived in this city, the home of detective Sam Spade in The Maltese Falcon. Sal Paradise meets Dean Moriarty in Denver on his way to this city, and Lena St. Clair and Waverly Jong appear in a novel set in this city’s Chinatown. For 10 points, name this Bay Area city, the setting of The Joy Luck Club and the initial destination of Jack Kerouac’s On the Road.
San Francisco &lt;LG&gt;
4

142003-)
This poet included details about his trip to the Soviet Union in his travelogue EIMI, and wrote a play where Death trades masks with Santa Claus. A poem by him features “eddieandbill,” as well as a “goat-footed balloonMan” that alludes to the god Pan. This American poet of “in Just-” asked “how do you like your blueeyed boy Mister Death,” and wrote about a prisoner who resists the “wellbeloved colonel’s” torture methods in “i sing of Olaf glad and big.” Another work features the lines “he sang his didn’t he danced his did.” For 10 points, name this poet of “anyone lived in a pretty how town,” known for his unconventional use of grammar and capitalization.
Edward Estlin Cummings &lt;AT&gt;
4

142019-)
In one story by this author, a man kisses the arch of a young girl's foot while swimming in the ocean. That work appears in a collection which also includes a story about Sergeant X and his brief friendship with a young girl. This man created a family who appears on the radio talk show It’s a Wise Child, and another one of his characters asks if Jane Gallagher still "keeps all her kings in the back row." He also created the character Seymour Glass who commits suicide on his honeymoon in Florida. For 10 points, name this author of Franny and Zooey and "A Perfect Day for Bananafish,” who wrote about the phony-hating Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
Jerome David Salinger &lt;LG&gt;
4

142054-)
One of this man’s works features Dolly and Beulah, who gossip about the affair between Lady and the snakeskin-clad musician Val. Another of this man’s characters comments “wouldn’t it be funny if that was true” when discussing true love. This playwright of Orpheus Descending and Sweet Bird of Youth wrote about the Mexican tour guide Lawrence Shannon, who unties the title creature in his play The Night of the Iguana. He created a character who has “always depended on the kindness of strangers,” the melodramatic Blanche DuBois. For 10 points, name this playwright of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Tennessee Williams [accept Thomas Lanier Williams III] &lt;AT&gt;
4

142073-)
One character in this play is told that J.P. Morgan did not succeed in business because he was “well liked,” and is ridiculed for his walrus-like physique. Another character repeatedly steals objects, including as a fountain pen and a football. In this play, that same character plans to sell sporting goods with his brother while following the “Florida idea,” and eventually flunks his math class. The discovery of a rubber hose indicates that the protagonist of this play is contemplating suicide. At this play’s climax, the title character crashes his car so that his family members Linda, Biff, and Happy can collect his life insurance money. For 10 points, name this work that centers on Willy Loman, a play by Arthur Miller.
Death of a Salesman &lt;AT&gt;
4

142096-)
The protagonist of this novel is “still a man” because he “had performed his mistakes in the dark.” A character in this novel calls a group of men “mule drivers” and “mud diggers” after they cause the enemy to retreat. In this novel, a tattered man witnesses the death of Jim Conklin. The protagonist of this novel is hit on the head by a rifle, causing an injury that leads his peers to believe he was grazed by a bullet during the Battle of Chancellorsville, which he fled. For 10 points, name this Civil War novel by Stephen Crane in which Henry Fleming wishes to redeem himself by obtaining the title injury.
The Red Badge of Courage &lt;Najwa&gt;
4

142127-)
This author wrote about television and American fiction in his essay, “E Unibus Pluram.” Another one of his essays, “A Supposedly Fun Thing I’ll Never Do Again,” details his experiences on a weeklong Caribbean cruise and he gave a commencement speech about learning how to think which was later published as This is Water. His novel The Pale King was a finalist for the 2012 Pulitzer Prize and another one of his novels focuses on the Enfield Tennis Academy. That novel, featuring the Incandenza family, famously contains 388 endnotes. For 10 points, name this author of Consider the Lobster and Infinite Jest, who hanged himself in 2008.
David Foster Wallace &lt;LG&gt;
4

142159-)
The speaker of a poem by this author explains that where “a young girl… has drowned… an old woman rises....like a terrible fish.” A villanelle by this poet includes the refrain “I think I made you up inside my head.” This author of “Mirror” and “Mad Girl’s Love Song” wrote of dying three times in a poem that warns, “Out of the ash I rise with my red hair.” This author of “Lady Lazarus” calls her husband “a man in black with a Meinkampf look” who is “a model” of a man about whom she declares “I’m through.” For 10 points, name this poet whose collection Ariel includes the poem “Daddy.”
Sylvia Plath &lt;SEA&gt;
4

142190-)
One of this man’s characters is an immigrant outlaw who takes Inez Middleton captive before his son Asa is killed by Abiram. That character, the husband of Esther Bush, is named Ishmael and appears in The Prairie. This author also wrote about a pioneer who appreciates the view on “Mount Vision,” Judge Marmaduke Temple. In another work, the Huron spy Magua attacks Alice and Cora Munro’s caravan, and rescue mission is undertaken by Chingachgook, Uncas, and the recurring character Natty Bumppo. For 10 points, name this American novelist of The Leatherstocking Tales and The Last of the Mohicans.
James Fenimore Cooper &lt;Nate&gt;
4

142219-)
In this short story, Clyde Dunbar is unable to attend the central event due to a broken leg.This story sees Old Man Warner say “Next thing you know they’ll be wanting to go back to living in caves,” after Mr. Adams tells him that some towns are considering giving up the titular event. One character arrives late once she realizes the date is June 27th, and is later told to “Be a good sport” by Mrs. Delacroix after she accuses Mr. Summers of being unfair. That character, Tessie Hutchinson, is the victim of a town ritual. For 10 points, name this Shirley Jackson short story in which townspeople draw slips of paper from a black box to determine a scapegoat.
“The Lottery” &lt;LG&gt;
4

142225-)
. One of this author’s stories ends with a woman wishing that her cable car trip would last forever after she splurges fifteen dollars on various articles of clothing. Another one of this author’s works features two families that attempt to decipher the heritage of a mulatto baby. This author of “A Pair of Silk Stockings” and “Desiree’s baby” also created Louise Mallard, who dies of shock once she realizes that her husband Brently is alive. Her other characters include the pianist Mademoiselle Reisz, and a protagonist who has an affair with Robert Lebrun. That protagonist, the wife of Leonce, is Edna Pontellier. For 10 points, name this American author of “The Story of an Hour” and The Awakening.
Kate Chopin [accept Katherine O’Flaherty] &lt;AT&gt; Bonuses
4

142235-)
This poet laments “soul more white / never through martyrdom of fire was led / to its repose” in a poem mourning the death of his wife. In another poem about his family, this poet tells three “blue-eyed banditti” that he will keep them “in the round tower of [his] heart.” This author of “The Cross of Snow” and “The Children’s Hour” also wrote a number of long narrative poems, including one in dactylic hexameter about the Acadian girl Evangeline. For 10 points, name this poet who wrote about a man who lives “by the shore of Gitche Gumee” in “The Song of Hiawatha.”
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow &lt;SEA&gt;
4

142264-)
This poet wrote “when at Night / Our good Day done / I guard My Master’s Head” in a poem written from the perspective of a “Loaded Gun.” In another poem, this poet is an “Inebriate of air” because she has tasted “a liquor never brewed.” She also wrote about telling her name “To an admiring Bog,” and how the “Windows failed – and then / I could not see to see.” Another work describes the day that this 20th century poet “first surmised that Horses’ Heads were toward Eternity.” Those Horses draw a carriage that holds“but just Ourselves and Immortality.” For 10 points, name this poet of “I heard a Fly buzz – when I died” and “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Emily Elizabeth Dickinson &lt;AT&gt;
4

142284-)
With her son Slade, this author wrote several children’s books such as Peeny Butter Fudge. This author wrote a novel in which Guitar shoots Pilate and attempts to kill the protagonist over hidden gold. Chapters titled after Dick and Jane appear in another novel by this author narrated by Claudia MacTeer, which is titled for a body part that (*) Pecola Breedlove wishes she had. This author of Song of Solomon and The Bluest Eye wrote a novel in which Baby Suggs dies after Halle’s son runs away, and Denver grows jealous of Paul D after he arrives at 124 Bluestone Road. In that work, Sethe is haunted by the ghost of the daughter she killed to save from slavery. For ten points, name this author of Beloved.
Toni Morrison [accept Chloe Anthony Wofford or Chloe Ardelia Wofford] &lt;RP&gt;
3

142304-)
A character in this work recalls how the Cotton Carnival Queen was spat at in the face by a drunk man. This play opens with a character complaining that she was hit by a hot, buttered biscuit, and just the night before, that character’s husband had broken his ankle while jumping hurdles at his old high school (*) track. Another character from this play is compelled to drink until he hears a “click”, and that character attributes his drinking to the world’s “mendacity”. After the title character becomes pregnant, Gooper and Mae’s plans to inherit the money of the dying Big Daddy Pollitt are ruined. For ten points, name this play about a Southern family’s gathering at their estate by Tennessee Williams.
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof &lt;RP&gt;
3

142313-)
One part of this poem was inspired by the author’s vision of a hotel facade while he was under the influence of the cactus peyote. People dance barefoot on broken glass and smash German jazz records in one part of this poem, and in the next part, “the incomprehensible prison” is compared with (*) Moloch. The third and final part of this poem features the refrain “I’m with you in Rockland”, while the first line of the footnote to this poem consists solely of the word “Holy!” For ten points, name this poem that begins with the phrase “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness”, by Allen Ginsberg.
Howl &lt;AG&gt;
3

142340-)
This man wrote a novel in which the protagonist is harassed by a corporal per the master-at-arms’ request. In that work, the protagonist was originally a sailor on the Rights-of-Man, but then transfers to the HMS Bellipotent, where he is executed by Captain Vere after killing John Claggart. A more notable novel by this author contains the Zoroastrian prophet (*) Fedallah, who makes three predictions of a character’s death. That work features the characters Starbuck and Queequeg aboard the Pequod, and begins with the phrase, “Call me Ishmael.” For ten points, name this American author of Billy Budd, who wrote about Captain Ahab’s persistent search for a whale in Moby Dick.
Herman Melville &lt;RP&gt;
3

142366-)
In one of these works, a character complains that the Washington Monument “doesn’t even look that much like Washington.” A person in another one thinks “Better set my iPod to the ‘Kill Bill’ fight theme, just in case” as he imagines a fight scene in a post office. Another one of these comics imagines several other speeches William (*) Safire would have given had the moon landing gone wrong. while a physicist is run over by a truck while contemplating a problem held by a man in a black hat in “Nerd Sniping.” This webcomic frequently revisits the theme of velociraptors. For ten points, name this webcomic “of romance, sarcasm, math, and language,” written by Randall Munroe.
xkcd &lt;MS&gt;
3

142373-)
This novel is compared to Little Women for its virtuous sentimentality in an essay by James Baldwin concerning his distaste for it, Everybody’s Protest Novel. A minor character in this novel, Prue, experienced the death of her child after she stopped producing breast milk, and another character does not believe she was ever born. That character, who is taught Christianity by Ophelia, is (*) Topsy. In this novel, Eva, the daughter of Evangeline St. Claire, meets the main character on a steamboat to New Orleans after he is sold by Arthur Shelby. After the protagonist refuses to disclose where Cassy and Emmeline have gone to Simon Legree, he is flogged to death. For ten points, name this novel about slavery, written by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin &lt;RP&gt;
3

142375-)
A musical artist who gained fame under a stage moniker named after these objects claimed in one song that he, “had a sit down with Farrakhan” and “Turned the White House to the Terror Dome.” Della sells her hair to buy Jim one of these objects for his watch in The Gift of the Magi, and in calculus, a rule named after these objects states that the derivative of (*) f of g of x is f prime of g of x times g prime of x. The Communist Manifesto claims that the Proletarians have nothing to lose but these objects, and The Social Contract begins, “Man is born free, and everywhere he is in” these objects. Fenrir was bound in, for ten points, what metal objects composed of several connected links.
chains [accept 2 Chainz, watch chain, Chain rule, hanging chain] &lt;RP+MS&gt;
3

142398-)
One character in this work refers to her son as a “poor lamb” as her husband chants the Kyrie Eleison and Die Irae. A novel within this play tells the story of a boy who claims to have accidentally killed his parents, and was written by a biologist and later announces his second novel, which reveals another character’s (*) “hysterical pregnancy.” In Act II of this play, Walpurgisnacht, the main characters play some horrific games like “Get the Guests” and “Hump the Hostess.” For ten points, name this play in which Martha responds to the title question with, “I am!”, by Edward Albee.
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? &lt;GM&gt;
3

142399-)
One character in this work sees a sign saying “New Hope 3 miles”, and soon afterwards claims that she believes in God. That character’s father is eager to buy new teeth after his wife dies, and in one chapter of this work, Cash gives thirteen reasons for why he made a (*) coffin “on the bevel”. In this novel, Darl is arrested and sent to Jackson, Mississippi for burning down Gillespie’s barn, and this book ends with Cash, Jewel, Vardaman, and Dewey Dell meeting their father’s new wife. For ten points, name this novel about the Bundren family’s journey to Jefferson to bury Addie’s coffin, written by William Faulkner.
As I Lay Dying &lt;AG&gt; BONUSES
3

142409-)
The garbage collector of the central town in this novel is Zeebo, who is the only one that can read at the First Purchase church. When a first grader pours an excessive amount of molasses on his dinner while at the central family’s house, the narrator of this novel mocks him. Carved soap figurines, old coins, and a pocket watch are among items found in a (*) tree hole by the central characters, who later find those objects to be gifts of Boo. When it is discovered that one character has a limp left hand, the rape accusations of Mayella Ewell fall flat; however, Tom Robinson is still found guilty despite the efforts of his lawyer Atticus. For ten points, name this novel narrated by Scout Finch about prejudice in the town of Maycomb, Alabama by Harper Lee.
To Kill a Mockingbird
3

142413-)
In a novel by this author, a love triangle emerges between Fanny, David Hosmer, and the protagonist, and that novel, At Fault, centers on landowner Therese Lafirme. Alcee and Calixta have a love affair while Bibi and Bobinot are away in one of this author’s short stories while in another, Armand (*) Aubigny burns all of the title character’s possessions after she births a mixed child with him. This author of The Storm and Desiree’s Baby is most notable for a novel in which Alcee Arobin and Robert Lebrun develop relationships with the protagonist who, at the end of the novel, commits suicide by walking into the Gulf of Mexico. For ten points name this author who wrote about Edna Pontellier in The Awakening.
Kate Chopin &lt;RP&gt;
3

142434-)
A character in this play believes that the cows wandering the highroads are to blame for the sorrow of one character, who later discovers a needle in Mary Warren’s poppet doll while serving as clerk of the court; that character is Ezekiel Cheever. After accusing Thomas Putnam of trying to take his land during the trial of his daughter Martha, (*) Giles Corey is pressed to death. In this play’s beginning, John Hale is sent to the house of Reverend Parris when he finds his daughter Betty unconscious after she had went dancing in the woods with the slave Tituba. For ten points, name this play written by Arthur Miller about the Salem Witch Trials.
The Crucible &lt;RP&gt;
3

142463-)
In story in a collection by this author, Eloise sleeps on the edge of her bed to make room for her imaginary friend Mickey Mickeranno. Another imaginary friend in that story, Jimmy Jimmereeno, is killed in a car crash. Other stories in that collection include “For Esme - WIth Love and Squalor” and a story featuring Sharon Lipschutz, Sybil Carpenter, and the (*) Glass family. In addition to Nine Stories, this author wrote a novel whose protagonist wonders where the ducks go in the winter and feels uncomfortable when his English teacher, Mr. Antolini, strokes his head. That character, who spends more time with his sister Phoebe after he is expelled from Pencey Prep, is Holden Caulfield. For ten points name this author of Catcher in the Rye.
Jerome David Salinger &lt;RP&gt;
3

142481-)
After crashing his car, a literary character with this profession finds a farm where an old woman repeats to him three times that “Sonny ain’t here.” That death of that character, R.J. Bowman, is described in a novel by Eudora Welty. Another character with this profession is fired by Howard (*) Wagner and sees the neighbor’s son Bernard tell him that his own son will fail his math class in one of his flashbacks. That character eventually crashes his car in the play in which he appears to give life insurance money to Linda, Happy, and Biff. For ten points, name this profession held by Willy Loman, whose death is described in a play by Arthur Miller.
salesman [accept Traveling Salesman Shoe Salesman] &lt;RP&gt;
3

142488-)
A poem by this man describes a character that used to “break onetwothreefourfive pigeons just like that”, and the title figure of that poem “used to ride a watersmooth-silver stallion” Another of his poems discusses a character whose rectum was egged by officers and was “more brave than me: more blond than you” and “whose warmest heart recoiled at war.” This author of (*) “Buffalo Bill’s defunct” described a character who “sang his didn’t” and “danced his did” throughout the seasons in a place “with up so floating many bells down.” For ten points name this American poet who wrote “i sing of Olaf glad and big” and “anyone lived in a pretty how town”, known for his unusual use of punctuation and capitalization.
edward estlin cummings &lt;RP&gt;
3

142528-)
A poem by this author asks several questions to Ramon Fernandez and begins, “She sang beyond the genius of the sea.” A collection that contains his “The Idea of Order at Key West” also includes a poem that describes a “gray and bare” object “upon a hill” in Tennessee. This poet who included “Anecdote of the (*) Jar” in his collection Harmonium, asks “O thin men of Haddam, / Why do you imagine golden birds?” in a poem that claims the eye of one of the title animals was the “only moving thing” among “twenty snowy mountains”. For ten points, name this poet who wrote “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird”.
Wallace Stevens &lt;RP&gt;
3

142532-)
In one story by this author, a young boy predicts his own death before being pushed into a pool by his sister. In another of his stories, a man talks to a young girl on a beach before returning to his hotel room to shoot himself. This author of “Teddy” and “A (*) Perfect Day for Bananafish” also created a boy who accidentally leaves the fencing team’s gear on a train and goes to Central Park with his sister Phoebe after he is expelled from Pencey Prep. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
Jerome David “J.D.” Salinger
3

142561-)
A character in this work covers a lightbulb with a Chinese lantern so others don’t see her in an unflattering light. A blue piano appears frequently in the stage directions of this play. One character in this play avoids another’s (*) advances by screaming “Fire!” This play features a former English teacher who loses her plantation, Belle Reve, and comes to Elysian Fields to live with her sister, Stella Kowalski. For 10 points, name this Tennessee Williams play in which Blanche Dubois claims that she has “always depended on the kindness of strangers.”
A Streetcar Named Desire
3

142562-)
In a short story set during this war, a man condemned to death by firing squad gives out what he thinks to be false information about the location of his friend. Kashkin blows up a train during this war, and Hemingway’s only play is set during it. This setting of “The Wall” and (*) The Fifth Column also sees the lover of Maria, Robert Jordan, attempt to blow up a bridge. For Whom the Bell Tolls is set during this war, and George Orwell wrote his personal account of it in Homage to Catalonia. For 10 points, name this war that saw the death of Federico Garcia Lorca.
Spanish Civil War
3

142574-)
Isabel Allende claimed that this event caused her to gain a country 28 years after she lost a different one in her memoir My Invented Country. Horst falls asleep watching Monday Night Football the night before this event in Thomas Pynchon’s novel Bleeding Edge. Keith is a lawyer who survives this event in Don DeLillo's novel (*) Falling Man. A key is discovered in a vase that was owned by a victim of this event in a 2005 Jonathan Foer novel. For 10 points, Oskar’s father in Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close died during what attack on the World Trade Center?
September 11, 2001 attacks [accept “9/11” and other equivalent answers]
3

142608-)
This author wrote a poem describing  "Buffaloes, blizzards, way down in Texas" which says, "There is a God, there must be a God, how can there be rain or sun unless there is a God?" This poet wrote that "Death" is a "beautiful friend who remembers" in his “Under the Harvest Moon.” (*) "Pile the bodies high at Austerlitz and Waterloo" is the opening line of his poem “Grass,” while this poet opened another work by noting that the title object “comes on little cat feet.” This author of “Fog” called a title city the "Hog Butcher for the World." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote “Chicago.”
Carl Sandburg
3

142615-)
. In one poem, the speaker claims that this “mourning figure walks, and will not rest” as he “cannot sleep on his hillside now”. The image of a “coffin that passes through lanes and streets” appears in an elegy about this figure in which the author mourned when “the great (*) star early droop’d in the western sky at night.” The speaker of another poem implores this figure “to rise up and hear the bells” after he has “fallen cold and dead. ”For 10 points, name this Presidential subject of “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d” and “O Captain! My Captain!” by Walt Whitman.
Abraham Lincoln
3

142623-)
To preserve valuable information, this character has skeleton dimensions tattooed on his right arm. This character sentimentally grasps multiple strangers’ hands while squeezing spermaceti. He is given the three-hundredth lay and is concerned to see Elijah following him. After asking (*) Mr. Stubb about Starbuck’s driving, this character resolves to write his own will. This character feels a Siamese connection while tied to his pagan friend, Queequeg. For 10 points, name this narrator who journeys on the Pequod to experience whaling in Melville’s Moby Dick.
Ishmael
3

142634-)
At the end of a work named for one of these objects, the protagonist watches ants crawl over his boot. The protagonist of a poem titled for one of these objects falls asleep in a garden after losing one of them. “The Chambered Nautilus” opens by saying that the ship is made of these objects. A character named for one of these objects watches a (*) meteor shower on a scaffolding with her mother. Kino returns one of these objects to the sea at the end of a Steinbeck novella named for one. For 10 points, name these objects for which Hester Prynne’s daughter is named in The Scarlet Letter.
pearls
3

142639-)
A volunteer fire squad in this city tries to prevent a pianist named Coalhouse from pursuing the love of Sarah. One orphan tries to escape from the Municipal Girls Orphanage in this city and ends up being adopted by a billionaire. While in this city, Anita claims that she will “drive a Buick through (*) San Juan / if there’s a road you can drive on” in the musical number “America”. In that musical set in this city, Tony and Maria fall in love while two rival gangs, the Jets and the Sharks, face off in a rumble. For 10 points, name this populous city, the setting of musicals such as Ragtime, Annie, and West Side Story.
New York City [accept “NYC”]
3

142656-)
One character in this novel alleges a love affair between Jefferson Davis and Ulysses S. Grant and claims that “Lincoln just freed the slaves on a bet.” That character goes on a five day fishing trip with the protagonist where they meet an Englishman named Harris. Montoya introduces the narrator and his friends to a 19-year-old that (*) Mike Campbell’s fiance later runs off with. Characters in this novel travel to Pamplona to see the runnings of the bulls. Near the end of this novel, Pedro Romero gets beat up by Robert Cohn. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Jake Barnes, the first novel by Ernest Hemingway.
The Sun Also Rises
3

142671-)
In this work, Mitchell Sanders tells the main character about hearing a cocktail party and chamber music. The main character of this work, who once worked at a meatpacking plant removing blood clots from dead pigs, goes out fishing along the U.S.-Canada border with Elroy Berdahl. One character meets up with Martha at a college reunion and is given a replacement (*) picture for the one that he burned following the death of Ted Lavender. For 10 points, name this memoir about the author’s experiences in the Vietnam War, the most famous work of Tim O’Brien.
The Things They Carried
3

142690-)
A character in this work argues that the moon must have been out in order for him to pick snapdragons at his father-in-law’s greenhouse. That father-in-law refused to allow the publication of the aforementioned character’s novel about a boy who kills his parents. A (*) biology professor tries to sleep with an older wife in this play after having been enticed by games like “Hump the Hostess.” Nick and Honey realize at the end of this play that the other couple’s son is an illusion. For 10 points, name this play about George and Martha by Edward Albee.
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
3

142699-)
. This poet wrote that “My long scythe whispered and left the hay to make.” In one poem, he described stars being emulated by “Fireflies in the Garden.” He claimed that he likes to think “some boy’s been swinging” the title trees of one poem. He opened another poem “The land was ours before we were the land’s.” He read that poem, (*) “The Gift Outright,” at Kennedy’s inauguration.  He claimed that “Spring is the mischief in me” in a poem that states “Good fences make good neighbors.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Mending Wall” and “The Road Not Taken.”
Robert Frost
3

142701-)
In this novel, Elizabeth regrets telling her late partner that she was pregnant. After looking at a stain on the ceiling, the main character of this novel wonders if anyone has remembered his birthday. One character in this novel has two sons named Royal, both of whom are dead. That character, (*) Gabriel, is spiritually reborn at the age of 21 and becomes a preacher. Throughout this novel, Florence keeps Deborah's letter to use as ammunition against her brother. For 10 points, name this James Baldwin novel centering on John Grimes.
Go Tell It On The Mountain
3

142731-)
In this work, Nell takes three dollars from her former flame and calls him a "damn fool." After being abandoned by his date, Freddie settles for the main character and describes her as "not half bad." Mary tells her daughter to 'go teh hell' with Pete, which enables her to lead a life of (*) prostitution.  This novella starts with Jimmie fighting thugs from Devil's Row to represent Rum Alley. For 10 points, name this novella by Stephen Crane featuring the title "girl of the streets."
Maggie: A Girl of the Streets
3

142738-)
Claude McKay wrote a novel about the life of Bita Plant in a village named for this food item. While Darl is being taken to an insane asylum near the end of As I Lay Dying, Dewey Dell, Cash, and Vardaman stand around eating this food. The scent of this fruit is proposed as a “spell against falling objects” after Pirate makes a breakfast out of them in (*) Gravity’s Rainbow. Workers on plantations for this fruit go on strike and are massacred in 100 Years of Solitude. For 10 points, name this fruit that grew well in Gabriel Garcia Marquez’s home country, Colombia.
bananas
3

142746-)
Elizabeth Hardwick dissed this city in an article titled for its “Lost Ideal.” One poet from this city wrote “The art of losing isn’t hard to master” in her poem “One Art.” She was also the dedicatee of a poem by another poet from this city that claims “I myself am hell; nobody’s here.” A monument here (*) “sticks like a fishbone in the city’s throat” according to the poem “For the Union Dead” by Robert Lowell. For 10 points, name this city that serves as the setting for Longfellow’s poem “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
Boston, Massachusetts
3

142766-)
One character in this novel imitates Hemingway through his short story writing and wine drinking. The protagonist of this novel writes a love poem to a beautiful Mexican waitress and basically lives on ice cream and apple pie. Readers aren’t given the narrator’s first name until he meets up with (*) Chad King in one city and aren’t given his last name until he meets up with Remi Boncoeur in another. Another character in this novel marries Marylou, Camille, and Inez. Carlo Marx and Dean Moriarty have philosophical discussions in Denver, in for 10 points, what novel about Sal Paradise’s travels across America by Jack Kerouac?
On the Road
3

142786-)
One character in this novel insists that she did not strangle her mother while they were at the Clearing, but that she was strangled by the “circle of iron”. The protagonist of this novel worked on Mr. Garner’s Sweet Home plantation in Kentucky with Paul D, who compares his heart to a “tin (*) tobacco box”. The title character disappears from 124 Bluestone Road when her mother attacks Mr. Bodwin with an ice pick after mistaking him for a sadistic schoolteacher and slave owner. For 10 points, name this novel in which Sethe is haunted by the ghost of the daughter she killed, a work by Toni Morrison.
Beloved
3

142814-)
A character in this poem "rode over Connecticut in a glass coach." Its seventh section asks "O thin men of Haddam, / Why do you imagine golden birds?" The speaker of this poem does not know if he prefers "the beauty of inflections" or "the beauty of innuendos." The speaker of the poem recalls an icy window made of "barbaric glass" which the title (*) creature's shadow crossed "to and fro." Its first section states "Among twenty snowy mountains / The only moving thing" was the eye of the title avian. For 10 points, name this poem by Wallace Stevens.
“Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird”
3

142834-)
One character in this play brags about eating yogurt and tries to give a man an English muffin because “breakfast is the most important meal of the day.” In this play, a man asked to name a device used for spreading dead pigs’ legs simply says, “Things are what they are.” Another character in this play accuses the lesbian couple Grace and Ruthie of being stingy about toast and cheating at cards together. Due to a mixup in hospital names, a man in this play refuses to believe that (*) Fletcher was mugged by Mexicans and hits the young junk shop employee who told him so. After hearing that a customer has left for the weekend with a suitcase, Don and Teach plan a burglary before realizing that Bob had been lying. For 10 points, name this David Mamet play about an attempt to steal a coin collection containing a nickel named for and depicting a bison.
American Buffalo
7

142847-)
One book by this author describes a recent trend among prisoners of stripping nude in the courtroom. A couple in that novel by this author has their suicide message to their son cut off by an answering machine, and the husband’s ashes are thrown into an outhouse by his sister, whom he raped. In that book by this author, which contains excerpts from The Ashley Book of Knots, Jack Buggit tells the protagonist to put a car wreck on the front page of the newspaper every day whether one happens or not, and miraculously returns to life after drowning. This author who described (*) Quoyle’s return to Newfoundland wrote a story about two men who never talk about or during sex, due to the taboos about homosexuality in the West. For 10 points, name this author of The Shipping News who wrote about Jack Twist and Ennis del Mar in “Brokeback Mountain.”
Annie Proulx
7

142871-)
One of this author’s characters has his wife declared insane to discredit her if she reveals his “sin,” the time he led Union troops to a massacre of Confederate soldiers. Another character created by this author participates in a Ku Klux Klan attack on Sam Taylor. In a play by this author that opens with a girl reading from The Merchant of Venice, a vain and aging actress reproaches her niece for her (*) “unnatural affection” towards a college friend. In that play by this author, Karen leaves her fiance Joe after Mary Tilford’s false accusations lead people to believe she is in a lesbian relationship. In this author’s sequel to Another Part of the Forest, Ben and Oscar hope to build a cotton mill funded by $88,000 stolen from Horace Giddens and are blackmailed by their sister Regina. For 10 points, name this author of The Children’s Hour and The Little Foxes.
Lillian Hellman
7

142893-)
This poem originally contained a line about “the tittering world” dancing. It describes a river that “hears no sound, save his own dashings” and lists concepts like “stern agony” and “the narrow house” that drive the reader to listen to a “still voice” that “comes from all around -- Earth and her waters, and the depths of air.” This poem advises its listener to “take the wings of morning” and “pierce the (*) Barcan wilderness,” and prophesies he will “be a brother to the insensible rock” and join the “patriarchs of the infant world.” This poem, which describes “hills rock-ribbed and ancient as the sun,” centers on a figure “who in the love of Nature holds / Communion with her visible forms,” and it urges readers to “approach thy grave / like one who...lies down to pleasant dreams.” For 10 points, name this poem by William Cullen Bryant about the “contemplation of death.”
Thanatopsis
7

142918-)
In one story by this author, the protagonist is disappointed when a Jesuit priest doesn’t recognize James Joyce’s name. That protagonist compares himself to Kafka in a letter to be read after his death, and he feels a sense of communion while smoking with two black farmhands in a barn. In another story by this author of “The Enduring Chill,” a woman annoys her (*) son by saying that he wants to be a writer but is selling typewriters for the time being and by claiming to enjoy her struggles. That character created by this author prides himself on having an objective view of his mother unblinded by affection, and lectures her after she tries to give Carver a penny but is nevertheless strongly affected by her death shortly after she gets off the bus and is confronted about her racism. For 10 points, name this author of “Everything that Rises Must Converge.”
Flannery O’Connor
7

142953-)
In one work, this author made a historical character 30 years younger to avoid having a 70 year old man court the 19-year old protagonist, who is also sought after by Aaron Burr. This author argued that the title woman could still love her husband in “Lady Byron Vindicated” and wrote about the sailor James Marvyn, who loses Mary Scudder to the Calvinist Samuel Hopkins, in The (*) Minister’s Wooing. This author wrote about the heiress Nina Gordon, her husband Claymont, and her slave Harry. In this author’s most famous novel, which she wrote a “Key” to, Eliza escapes to Canada by crossing an icy river, and the title character is beaten to death by Simon Legree. For 10 points, name this author of Dred: A Tale of the Great Dismal Swamp and Uncle Tom’s Cabin.
Harriet Beecher Stowe
7

142992-)
In one essay, this writer described a man who got a murderer released from prison, only for him to kill again. In one book by this author, a woman yells “Go curse your God, boy, and die” before her sons kick the narrator out of the house; that narrator is forced to repeat the phrase “social responsibility” before dreaming of opening an infinite series of envelopes. This author rebutted an Irving Howe essay in “The World and the Jug,” and in another work by this author, a musician burns his Cadillac on the lawn of a senator,  (*) Adam Sunraider, who was raised by the black minister Alonzo Hickman. This author of Shadow and Act and Juneteenth created a character who works in a paint factory and is forced to fight in a “Battle Royale” before meeting Ras the Exhorter and who lives underground with 1,369 lightbulbs. For 10 points, name this author of Invisible Man.
Ralph Ellison
7

143002-)
One of these non-living objects names a novel that repeats the line, “Every negro walk in a circle. Take of that and make it what you will.” In that text named for one of these things, Lilith kills the abusive Rogets but fails to save Robert Quinn, who leaves her with their daughter Lovey. Along with that work by Jamaican author Marlon James, one of these things is given as a birthday gift to a Yale graduate and aspiring architect who dates Maxine; that character’s father survived a (*) train crash in India because medics saw a piece of one of these objects in his hand, causing him to name his son Nikhil. A man praises the speeding up of the modern world in a speech defending the “bright,” “clean” destruction of these items; this man, Captain Beatty, uses the Mechanical Hound to track down Guy Montag. For 10 points, name these objects burned in Fahrenheit 451.
books [generously prompt on novels]
7

143030-)
In one work by this author, a poet’s father accuses him of “letting the strength of his arm go to waste,” which he punningly confirms by putting the strength of his arm around his girlfriend’s waist instead. This poet described the Sun’s jealous killing of the lovers Midnight and the Morning Star in “The Barrier,” and in another poem laments that “we have fall’n on evil days” and wishes for “the blast-defying power of thy form.” “The clay is vile beneath our feet” in a poem which describes an object that (*) “grins and lies” and “shades our eyes,” while in another work, a creature with “old, old scars” sends up “a prayer...from his heart’s deep core.” “Douglass” and “We Wear the Mask” are by this author whose poem “Sympathy” titles a memoir by Maya Angelou. For 10 points, name this poet, who wrote “I know why the caged bird sings.”
Paul Laurence Dunbar
7

143112-)
One woman’s success in this activity enrages a group of men who work at a North Dakota butcher’s shop, causing them to rape her in a smokehouse. Dutch, Tor, and Lily later die shortly after engaging in this activity when Pauline locks them in the freezer of Kozka’s Meats. One man who enjoys this activity assures his friends their sandwiches are either “very new cheese or very old meat,” while another uses a Pure-A-Tron air freshener and later moves in with (*) Gwendolyn and Cecily Pigeon; those men appear in a play that opens and closes with this activity, as the hyper-clean Felix and the messy Oscar learn to reconcile their differences. This game central to The Odd Couple is interrupted in a Tennessee Williams play when Blanche is taken to a mental hospital. For 10 points, name this gambling game played regularly by Stanley Kowalski in A Streetcar Named Desire.
playing poker [or playing cards; prompt on more general answers like gambling]
7

143136-)
In one book set in this US state, the protagonist wants to act out the movie Against All Odds, and his friend Jesus Navarro murders their classmates and commits suicide. That protagonist is framed for a string of murders across this state by the pedophile teacher Nuckles. Vernon God Little takes place in this state, where a naked man “like an enormous baby” says that he will never die while “dancing, dancing” after killing the protagonist in an outhouse in this state. The author who created (*) Judge Holden also wrote a novel that begins in this state whose protagonist plays chess with a woman who lost two fingers in a shooting accident, travels to Mexico with Lacey Rawlins, and falls in love with Alejandra. For 10 points, Blevins’ death causes John Grady Cole to return to what American state, the setting of Blood Meridian, All the Pretty Horses, and The Streets of Laredo?
Texas
7

143151-)
One work by this writer expresses surprise that the title figure died of malnutrition, saying, "Hell, our condition ain't changed any since Phyllis Wheatley's time." In that work, this author recounts yelling, "I'm here! Are you?" in a graveyard, and says "a people does not throw its geniuses away" and that as "witnesses for the future" it is our duty to collect them again, "bone by bone" if necessary. This author pretended to be the titular figure's (*) niece in order to properly commemorate her in "In Search of Zora Neale Hurston." She also wrote about a woman whose stepson starts overeating because he feels emasculated by his wife Sofia. That novel by this author centers around a woman who finds independence making pants and develops a relationship with the singer Shug Avery. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Celie in The Color Purple.
Alice Walker
7

143170-)
This work’s narrator notes that mailboxes first made him aware of another character, who is challenged to name an example of real literature and answers Wuthering Heights, only to reveal she is talking about the movie. A character in this work is said to be homosexual because if a man doesn’t like horse racing or baseball, he “don't like girls." This novel’s protagonist is carved in an African statue, dates (*) Rusty Trawler, and annoys Mr. Yuniyoshi. This work’s protagonist runs away from her much older husband Doc and changes her name from Lula Mae to become an actress. After she passes information to the gangster Sally Tomato in prison, she is abandoned by Jose Ybarra-Jaegar and travels to Brazil. For 10 points, name this novella narrated by the writer “Fred” about Holly Golightly, a Truman Capote work that was adapted into an Audrey Hepburn film.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s
7

143200-)
This man advocates fattening up people and laying them around for use as couches; a friend later tries to convince this man that “hell is an idea first born on an undigested apple-dumpling.” This character throws a man who mimics him into the air before saving his life from an accident, and he is described as being “in the transition stage” because he goes (*) under the bed to put his boots on. This man meets his best friend when they are forced to sleep together in an overbooked hotel after he stays out late “selling his head.” He worships a small idol, Yojo, and after getting sick, carves himself a fancy coffin which eventually saves his friend’s life. After demonstrating his skill with a harpoon, this ornately tattooed native of Kokovoko is hired to join the Pequod. For 10 points, name this cannibal friend of Ishmael in Moby Dick.
Queequeg
7

143220-)
This poet claimed that “Death is a German expert” and asked what a little boy who dropped his ball should do, since he is “learning … the epistemology of loss.” This poet of Love and Fame and Delusions, Etc. wrote “I spit upon this dreadful bankers grave” and wrote about a “huffy” man who “hid the day” and “sulked” while “empty grows every bed.” This poet concluded he had “no inner resources” and claimed  “Life, friends, is boring” in a collection inspired by the suicide of his father. He asked a woman (*) “moved you not, restless, waiting for [your husband]?” in a work addressed to the author of The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America, and expanded his most famous work in His Toy, His Dream, His Rest. For 10 points, name this Confessional poet with the alter ego Henry, who wrote Homage to Mistress Bradstreet and The Dream Songs.
John Berryman
7

143245-)
In this work, a man is called a “Morris Finestein” for crying, and the narrator of this novel observes that “most of us would rather love than be loved.” A dwarf in this novel tugs on the pants leg of the man he’s infatuated with and wiggles his ears for attention. A handsome reprobate in this novel carries around the ear of a man he killed in a razor fight. Stumphy MacPhail sees the arrival of a man who later paints half of a porch bright green, and who follows another character around because he has been to the (*) penitentiary in Atlanta. After a ten-day marriage to the main character, Marvin Macy gets out of jail and tries to ruin her life by stealing her money; he is helped by the hunchback whom she took in, Cousin Lymon. For 10 points, name this Carson McCullers novella in which Miss Amelia creates the title melancholy eating establishment.
The Ballad of the Sad Cafe
7

143246-)
One character in this work takes to living in the woods as a paranoid hermit after his roommate threatens to slit his throat in the middle of the night; that roommate was forced to move around constantly because oil would be discovered wherever he lived. A man in this novel with a transparent eyepatch orders, "Gimme eat" instead of signing a paper, and thus ends the Glorious (*) Loyalty Oath Crusade. The protagonist of this novel censors a letter to read, “I yearn for you tragically. A.T. Tappman,” and during a gruesome death in this novel, he says "there, there" as Snowden whispers, "I'm cold." The title clause of this novel states that while only crazy men can get out of flying missions, a man who is afraid to fly a mission is obviously sane. For 10 points, name this novel about Yossarian, by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22
7

143247-)
In one work by this author, Mrs. Ballinger and Miss Van Vluyck try to impress Osric Dane with their knowledge of a concept that Mrs. Roby seems to think is a river. In another work, this author wrote about “two American ladies of ripe but well-cared-for middle age” who talk about their daughters and think about their dead husbands while sitting on a terrace; in that story, a woman who treasures the only letter she ever received from an old lover tries to use (*) knitting to distract herself from memories of an old love triangle. This author wrote about Jenny’s mother, Mrs. Slade, who tried to trick Barbara’s mother into going to the Colosseum at night in order to catch the title disease. For 10 points, name this author of “Roman Fever” who wrote about Lily Bart’s suicide in The House of Mirth.
Edith Wharton
7

143256-)
A character with this profession clashes with “Red Shirt” in Natsume Soseki’s novel Botchan. One character with this profession collects a “set” of girls in Muriel Spark’s The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie. Ambrose Bierce falls in love with a character of this profession in Carlos Fuentes’s (*) The Old Gringo named Harriet Winslow, and Holden Caulfield finds one of these characters petting his head. In addition to Mr. Antolini, a character of this profession courts Katrina von Tassel and gets driven out of town by a ghost with a pumpkin head. For 10 points, give this profession of Ichabod Crane.
schoolteacher (accept synonyms like professor or educator or schoolmaster or tutor; accept specific subjects)
4

143260-)
The main character in this story hears a ringing “like the stroke of a blacksmith’s hammer upon the anvil” and realizes it’s the ticking of his watch. A scout in this story mentions a pile of driftwood, which convinces the main character to try and sabotage a railroad at the title (*) location. The main character in this story dives into a river to avoid being shot, travels 30 miles through the woods, and reaches the front gate of his house just before he sees a blinding light and feels a pain on his neck. In this story, Peyton Farquhar is revealed to have hallucinated his escape from a hanging by Union soldiers. For 10 points, name this story by Ambrose Bierce.
“An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge”
4

143277-)
In one of this author’s stories a man claims to have found “unpardonable sin”, while in one of his novels, Hilda witnesses a murder by a man who resembles the title Praxiteles statue. In another novel, this author of “Ethan Brand” described Hollingsworth’s choice of Priscilla over Zenobia. This author of The (*) Marble Faun and The Blithedale Romance wrote a novel in which Chillingworth psychologically pressures the Reverend Dimmesdale, leading Dimmesdale to stand upon the town scaffold with the protagonist and her daughter Pearl. For 10 points, name this author who created Hester Prynne and a shameful badge of adultery in The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne
4

143299-)
While reminiscing about his former boss Frank, one character in this play accidentally turns on a tape recording of a child reciting state capitals. One character in this play decorates his shoes with the logo of the University of Virginia and ignores the advice of his neighbor (*) Bernard. A climactic scene in this play set at Frank’s Chop House occurs after one character does not obtain a loan for a sporting goods store. After seeing the Woman having an affair with his father in this play, Biff angrily gives up on his football career. Willy Loman kills himself for the insurance money in, for 10 points, what play written by Arthur Miller?
Death of a Salesman
4

143322-)
Imagery in this poem include “[a] ghastly statue with one gray toe” and a “cleft in your chin instead of your foot.” The speaker of this poem thinks “I may well be a Jew” and remembers “barely daring to breathe or Achoo.” This poem mentions a vampire who drank the speaker’s blood for seven years, a reference to the author’s marriage to (*) Ted Hughes. This poem opens “you do not do, you do not do,” and it describes a “man in black with a Meinkampf look.” The speaker of this poem tells the title figure “you bastard, I’m through” after comparing him to a Nazi. For 10 points, name this poem by Sylvia Plath.
“Daddy”
4

143341-)
One character in this book loses his family fortune when delays cause the ice in refrigerated train cars to melt, spoiling the vegetables inside. The pimp Mr. Edwards abuses Cathy Ames, who shoots her husband in the shoulder in this book and runs away. In this novel, the servant (*) Lee argues that “Thou mayest” is the correct translation of the Hebrew word timshel. This novel centers on the Trask family’s life in the Salinas Valley, and it implicitly compares the characters Caleb and Aron to Cain and Abel. For 10 points, name this John Steinbeck novel that takes its title from a Biblical location.
East of Eden
4

143376-)
This author used the metaphor of an “undiscovered continent” to refer to the mind, and wrote several letters to an unidentified “Master.” This poet asked “if my Verse is alive” in a letter to Thomas Wentworth Higginson. This poet complained that “They shut me up in Prose” and (*) “I felt a Funeral, in my Brain” in separate poems, and this poet asked “Who are you?” after declaring “I’m Nobody!” This poet claimed to have “heard a Fly buzz - when I died,” and in one poem she described riding in a carriage with the title concept. For 10 points, name this author of “Because I could not stop for Death”, the reclusive “Belle of Amherst.”
Emily Dickinson
4

143383-)
This author claimed “I’d wash my dirty Iran” if he were doing his laundry in the poem “Homework.” This author recorded one of his poems while on a Greyhound bus, and set another on a “tincan banana dock”; those are his “Wichita Vortex Sutra” and “Sunflower Sutra.” This author addressed (*) Garcia Lorca and Walt Whitman in the poem “A Supermarket in California,” and he dedicated a poem to the death of his mother Naomi in “Kaddish.” This author’s most famous poem opens “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.” For 10 points, name this Beat poet, the author of Howl.
Allen Ginsberg
4

143392-)
One of this author’s novels ends with the protagonist revealing John Bristow killed the supermodel Lula Landry, while another revolves around a dispute over “The Fields” by the local council of Pagford. Sales of The Cuckoo’s Calling (*) shot up 500,000 percent after Roger Galbraith was discovered as a pseudonym of this author. This author of The Casual Vacancy penned books supposedly written by Newt Scamander and Beedle the Bard, as well as one that opens at Four Privet Drive. For 10 points, name this British author whose books Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them and The Sorcerer’s Stone are part of her Harry Potter universe.
J.K. Rowling (or Joanne “Jo” Rowling; accept Robert Galbraith before read; prompt on “Newt Scamander”)
4

143394-)
Junot Diaz’s first short story collection is titled for this occurrence. This occurs to Rabbit’s daughter June, and a very handsome man named Esteban is discovered after having undergone this fate in a story by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. Thomas Gray laments an occurrence of this type in a poem about his (*) cat Selima. Maggie Tulliver dies in this fashion at the end of The Mill on the Floss, while Edna Pontellier dies in this fashion at the end of The Awakening. The poet Li Bo supposedly underwent this fate while trying to reach a reflection of the Moon in a pond. For 10 points, name this manner in which Ishmael’s crewmates die after their ship wrecks.
drowning (accept word forms and equivalents, as long as they mention a watery death; prompt on just “dying” or “suicide”)
4

143419-)
In one of this author’s novels, a girl nearly kills herself after believing she has become pregnant by kissing a boy. Uncle Jack advises a character created by this author after she finds a copy of The Black Plague and discovers that (*) her father and many other members of Maycomb County are racists. The discovery of a draft in a safety deposit box in 2014 led to the publication of this author’s Go Set a Watchman, a sequel to a novel centering on the trial of Tom Robinson and his defense by the young Scout’s father. For 10 points, name this author who created Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird.
Harper Lee
4

143423-)
This deity turns look to around in a statue partially titled Callipyge, or “of the beautiful buttocks.” A tree trunk supports a dolphin and cherubs in a sculpture of this deity named after the Medici family. Although it predates this deity’s existence by more than 20,000 years, a paleolithic figurine is named after this (*) goddess “of Willendorf.” A Greek peasant discovered a sculpture of this woman in 1820 that is now on permanent display in the Louvre; that depiction of this goddess is notably missing her arms. For 10 points, name this Roman goddess, a sculpture of whom is titled of “[her] de Milo.”
Venus (accept Venus Callipyge; accept Venus de’ Medici; accept Venus de Milo; accept Venus of Willendorf; accept Aphrodite in place of Venus throughout)
4

143429-)
This poem describes hills “rock-ribbed and ancient as the sun,” as well as “the sluggish clod, which the rude swain / Turns with his share.” This poem tells the addressee to “pierce the Barcan wilderness” and to “list / To Nature’s teachings” when “thoughts [...] like a blight” come “over thy spirit.” This poem opens (*) “To him who in the love of Nature holds / Communion with her visible forms,” and it ends on a note of reassurance by stating that the addressee “lies down to pleasant dreams” as they enter the afterlife. For 10 points, name this poem by William Cullen Bryant whose Greek title translates as “Meditation upon death.”
“Thanatopsis”
4

143448-)
A house in this play was previously owned by Jack Straw and Peter Ochello. After one character in this play tells another “I love you,” the latter character says “Wouldn’t it be funny if that were true?” One character in this play requires a crutch after injuring himself running hurdles; later, that character admits that he is fed up with everybody’s (*) “mendacity” and learned that his friend Skipper had gay feelings for him. At the end of this play, Maggie lies that she is having a baby with Brick to help secure the inheritance of the cancer-stricken Big Daddy. For 10 points, name this play by Tennessee Williams about the Pollitt family.
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
4

143462-)
A character in this play performs a dance while yelling “OCOMOGOSIAY,” causing another character to call himself “Flaming Spear.” Karl Lindner attempts to bribe the main characters of this play. Asagai asks Benethea to move to Nigeria with him in this play, and Willy Harris absconds with an (*) investment meant for a liquor store. The central family in this play moves to Clybourne Park after receiving ten thousand dollars of insurance money, and this play takes its title from a poem that asks “What happens to a dream deferred?” For 10 points, name this play about the Younger family written by Lorraine Hansberry.
A Raisin in the Sun
4

143465-)
Description acceptable. These characters attend a picnic where the British Kate responds with disdain upon learning another character is a governess. These characters are responsible for taking care of the Hummels. Professor Fritz Bhaer marries one of these characters whom (*) “Laurie” had earlier proposed to as well. These characters decide to make Christmas presents for each other, and after the second youngest of these characters contracts scarlet fever, the other three return home to take care of her. For 10 points, name this group consisting of Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy, the title characters of a book by Louisa May Alcott.
the Little Women (accept Meg, Jo, Beth and Amy before being read; accept March children or siblings and variations thereof; prompt on “March family”)
4

143468-)
In The Handmaid’s Tale, Moira contracts scurvy to escape a “Center” of this color. A novel that opens with the death of a miniaturist contains a chapter that is narrated by this color and was written by (*) Orhan Pamuk. In addition to a novel titled My Name is [this color], a novel centering on the Jia [“jah”] family included among the Four Great Classics is titled after a “Dream” of a “Chamber” of this color. In a novel with this color in its title, Henry Fleming receives a blow to the head and initially flees a Civil War battlefield. For 10 points, give this color of a “Badge of Courage” in a Stephen Crane novel.
red (don’t accept any synonyms)
4

143500-)
The 6th section of this poem describes an object passing the “yellow spear’d wheat” and travelling by “processions long and winding” as “the mournful voices of the dirge pour’d around.” The main conceit of this poem identifies a figure with “a western orb sailing the heaven” and a warbling (*) hermit thrush. The speaker of this poem decries when “the great star early droop’d in the western sky” and describes laying one of the title flowers on top of a coffin. This poem concerns the same subject as “O Captain! My Captain!” For 10 points, name this long elegy written for Abraham Lincoln by Walt Whitman.
When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d
4

143504-)
A poem within this story opens “In the greenest of our valleys” and describes a king “in the olden time long ago”; that poem in this story is “The Haunted Palace.” This story is set in a building with a fissure running from the roof to the bottom, and the narrator of this story hears cracking and reverberating corresponding to the (*) book he is reading. The narrator of this story about a knight named Ethelred from the novel The Mad Trist, and he flees after discovering that Madeline was buried alive by her brother Roderick. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allen Poe short story that ends with the title estate sinking into the ground.
“The Fall of the House of Usher” Bonuses
4

143521-)
One character created by this author discovers his wife is having an affair with Bill Orcutt after he moves to Old Rimrock and marries a former Miss New Jersey named Dawn. Merry bombs a postal office in protest of the Vietnam War and abandons her father (*) Swede Levov in a novel by this author. This man wrote a short novella about Neil Klugman’s disintegrating relationship titled Goodbye, Columbus, and his most famous novel is framed as the conversation between the title character and his psychoanalyst. For 10 points, name this Jewish-American author of American Pastoral and the sexually explicit Portnoy’s Complaint.
Philip Roth
4

143533-)
This entity first appears in a package labeled “Happy anniversary” sent to a Saudi medical attache. Joelle van Dyne, the deformed Mario, and a man who later committed suicide with a microwave were instrumental in its creation. It was created by James (*) Incandenza, and this entity also called the “samizdat” is pursued by a group of “wheelchair assassins” agitating for Quebec separatism. This entity is so entertaining anyone who watches it wants nothing else, and its name comes from a Hamlet speech addressing Yoric. For 10 points, name this fictional film giving its title to David Foster Wallace’s magnum opus.
copies of Infinite Jest (accept “the Entertainment” or “samizdat” before mention)
4

143569-)
In this play’s first act, one character gushes about an amazing speech she gave about the Louisiana Purchase and admires the heliotropes planted by her future mother-in-law. In this play, an actor playing the role of a “belligerent man” stands among the (*) audience and asks questions. In its final act, dead residents of the title location gather in a cemetery, such as the alcoholic organist Simon Stimson or a girl who revisits the day of her twelfth birthday. George and Emily Webb are married in this play, which is narrated by the Stage Manager. For 10 points, name this play set in Grover’s Corners, written by Thornton Wilder.
Our Town
4

143593-)
One poem about this figure opens the collection The Town Down the River, was written by E.A. Robinson, and terms this figure “The Master.” Because “kings must murder still,” this figure cannot “sleep upon his hill” in a Vachel Lindsay poem in which this figure “Walks At (*) Midnight.” The “western orb sailing the heaven” is compared to this man in a poem observing when “the great star early droop’d in the western sky” that’s titled “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d.” A poem declares “our fearful trip is done,” though this man is “fallen cold and dead.” For 10 points, Walt Whitman’s “O Captain! My Captain!” laments the death of what president?
Abraham “Abe” Lincoln
4

143622-)
This writer gave six “nonlectures” at Harvard. This poet fought to include an ampersand in the title of his first collection Tulips and Chimneys, which includes his poems “Thy fingers make early flowers of” and one about a “handsome man” who rode a “watersmooth-silver / stallion” and shot five (*) pigeons “justlikethat.” This poet asked “how do you like your blue-eyed boy / Mister Death” in “Buffalo Bill’s.” This poet wrote about a “conscientious object-or” in “i sing of Olaf glad and big,” and he wrote the poem “anyone live in a pretty how town.” For 10 points, name this American poet who used irregular capitalization and punctuation.
e. e. cummings (or E(dward) E(stlin) Cummings)
4

143644-)
One boy with this surname notes that another character with the same surname has “hardly any behind” before pinching her on the butt. One character with this surname is criticized for working in Hollywood as a screenwriter, and another used (*) green ink to write poems on his baseball glove. One character with this surname rides a carousel while being watched by her brother, who starts the novel by getting expelled from Pencey Prep and railing against “phonies.” For 10 points, give this surname of Allie, D.B., Phoebe, and Holden in J.D. Salinger’s The Catcher in the Rye.
Caulfield (accept Allie, Phoebe, D.B., or Holden Caulfield)
4

143671-)
One narrator describes this fate’s occurrence to Victorine Lafourcade and thinks it’s occurred to him but realizes he’s only in the berth of a boat. The narrator unknowingly inflicts this fate upon a hated cat in “The Black Cat,” and Roderick’s sister suffers this fate before both die in (*) “The Fall of the House of Usher.” Angry over an unknown insult, Montresor inflicts this fate upon the jester Fortunato in “The Cask of Amontillado” by tricking him into an underground wine cellar then trapping him there. For 10 points, name this common theme in Edgar Allen Poe stories, in which a person might be placed in a tomb despite having a beating heart.
being buried alive (accept premature burial; accept anything describing being trapped somewhere but actually being alive; ironically, prompt on death and word forms)
4

143692-)
In this author’s second play, Black saves White from killing himself on the title train. One character created by this author is born during the Leonids meteor shower and joins a gang that includes Toadvine and is led by John (*) Glanton; that character by this author is killed by an entirely hairless man and is called “the kid.” One of this author’s characters stumbles upon a basement full of bodies eaten by cannibals, and tells his son they are the “good guys” while walking towards the sea on the title structure in a post-apocalyptic society. For 10 points, name this author of the novels Blood Meridian and The Road.
Cormac McCarthy
4

143707-)
In a story by this author, a starving man is abandoned by his partner Bill before discovering the Bedford whaling ship. This author of “Love of Life” imagined the use of germ warfare against China in “The Unparalleled Invasion,” and one of his characters ignores the advice of “the old man of Sulphur Creek” and is eventually abandoned by (*) his dog. A man freezes to death after failing to do the title task in this author’s story “To Build a Fire.” In one of his novels, Judge Miller’s pet is stolen before eventually joining a pack of wolves; that pet is the dog Buck. For 10 points, name this author of several nature stories and novels, like The Call of the Wild.
John Griffith “Jack” London
4

143714-)
This story opens with a quotation from the poem “Castle of Indolence.” A tulip-tree in this story is named after Major Andre, and it contains a horse named Gunpowder. A character in this story attempts to cross a bridge to make another (*) vanish in “flash and fire,” and Brom Bones competes with another character in this story for Katrina Van Tassel. The schoolteacher Ichabod Crane flees the title glen of this short story after an apparent encounter with the ghost of a Hessian soldier that leaves behind a shattered pumpkin. For 10 points, name this Washington Irving short story about the Headless Horseman.
“The Legend of Sleepy Hollow” Bonuses
4

143733-)
One character in this book expresses his gratitude that he does not have to kill the sun, moon, or stars. Its protagonist is visited by a warbler shortly before experiencing painful cramps in his left hand. This book ends with its protagonist dreaming of (*) lions on a beach, and its beginning mentions how the title fan of “the great DiMaggio” had gone 84 days without succeeding at his profession. After being followed by sharks, this novel’s main character only manages to bring home the skeleton of a great marlin. For 10 points, name this Ernest Hemingway novella about Santiago the fisherman.
The Old Man and the Sea
4

143741-)
One poem by this man claims “it is difficult / to get the news out of poems,” and he wrote that “they enter the world naked” when describing bushes “By the road to the contagious hospital” in his collection Spring and All. This author of (*) “Asphodel, That Greeny Flower” and an epic poem about Paterson, New Jersey wrote about stealing some food “you were probably / saving / for breakfast” that was “so sweet / and so cold.” The title object of another of his poems is “glazed with rain” and “so much depends / upon” it. For 10 points, name this American poet of “This Is Just to Say” and “The Red Wheelbarrow.”
William Carlos Williams (prompt on WCW)
4

143770-)
One character in this book sets off four differently colored fires and repeats four nonsense words before repairing a leak in a well. A baby in this book is named “Hello-Central” by the protagonist’s wife Sandy, and this book’s protagonist uses a lightning rod to (*) blow up a rival’s tower. The protagonist of this book becomes known as “the Boss” and early in the book escapes execution by predicting a solar eclipse. After receiving a crowbar blow to the head in this book, Hank Morgan wakes up in 6th century England. For 10 points, name this satirical Mark Twain novel in which an American time-travels back to medieval Camelot.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court
4

143777-)
This author wrote about re-reading his old books in the introduction to his short story collection Slow Learner. In one of this author’s stories, Callisto tries to nurse a bird to health and Meatball Mulligan holds a massive party. This author of (*) “Entropy” described John Nefastis supposedly inventing Maxwell’s Demon in a book in which a conspiracy involving the sign of a muted horn and a postal organization named Trystero is uncovered by Oedipa Maas. In one of this writer’s books, Tyrone Slothrop tries to locate a German V-2 rocket. For 10 points, name this author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity’s Rainbow.
Thomas Pynchon Bonuses
4

143785-)
A novel set in this city concerns Curtis Jadwin, whose obsession with the title place causes him to hear the word “wheat” repeatedly in his head. This is the setting of Frank Norris’ The Pit, and a resident of this city is defended by Boris Max after using a pillow to accidentally (*) smother Mary Dalton. In addition to Bigger Thomas, Esperanza Cordero is a resident of this city who moves from Loomis Street to the title location. This city is the setting of The House on Mango Street and Native Son, and one poet called it “City of the Big Shoulders” and “Hog Butcher to the World.” For 10 points, name this city, the addressee of a Carl Sandburg poem.
Chicago, Illinois
4

143806-)
Two characters in this play racistly discuss the difficulty of dealing with “Patels.” One character in this play pretends to be the American-Express executive Ray Morton and is crushed to learn the Nyborgs are deadbeats. Moss conceives a plan to sell some items in this play to Jerry (*) Graff, and James Lingk cancels a contract in it with a man who wins a contest to receive a new Cadillac. This play opens in a Chinese restaurant with Shelly “The Machine” Levine requesting access to the best “leads,” which he later steals to avoid being fired. For 10 points, name this play by David Mamet about real estate salesmen.
Glengarry Glen Ross
4

143833-)
One poem in this collection describes how the attorney Benjamin Pantier was driven “[t]o live with his dog in a dingy room” by his own wife. The “Epilogue” to this work includes a conversation between Yogarindra, Beelzebub, and Loki. Lucinda Matlock ends a poem in this collection by asserting, (*) “It takes life to love Life,” and it opens with a poem asking for “Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom and Charley” before declaring, “All, all are sleeping on the hill.” Most of the speakers in this collection are buried in Oak Hill Cemetery. For 10 points, name this poetry collection by Edgar Lee Masters narrated by dead, former residents of the title Illinois town.
Spoon River Anthology
4

143847-)
7. In this novel, the Greek Michaelis informs the narrator of the climactic event. That narrator realizes it is his thirtieth birthday after the conclusion of a fight in which the title character of this novel reveals he only attended Oxford for five months after fighting a war. One of few people in this novel to attend a (*) funeral is Owl-Eyes, and it takes place in a “Valley of Ashes” watched over by T.J. Eckleburg. This novel’s title character hosts parties attended by golfer Jordan Baker, and is shot in his swimming pool after Myrtle Wilson is run over by Daisy Buchanan. For ten points, identify this Jazz Age novel narrated by Nick Carraway and written by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Great Gatsby &lt;MS&gt;
3

143862-)
22. One poem by this author instructs to play certain instruments “through the windows” and “through doors,” while another addresses an Alabaman he-bird who visits Paumanok Beach as a “solitary guest.” This author of  “Beat! Beat! Drums!” also “sound[ed] [his] barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world” in another poem. A more famous work by this author of (*) “Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking” states that he “mourn’d” after the “the great star early droop’d,” referring to the death of Abraham Lincoln. For ten points, name this American author who included “Song of Myself” and “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d” in his Leaves of Grass.
Walter “Walt” Whitman &lt;IK&gt; BONUSES
3

143863-)
This poem’s narrator asks “is there balm in Gilead?” before telling the title entity to “get thee back into the tempest and night’s Plutonian shore!” That narrator’s “quaint and curious volumes” “surcease” him of sorrow for “the rare and radiant maiden” (*) Lenore. This poem’s title creature sat “upon a pallid bust of Pallas just above” the chamber door it had earlier gently rapped and tapped upon. Beginning “Once upon a midnight dreary” while the narrator “pondered weak and weary,” for ten points, identify this Edgar Allan Poe poem whose title bird keeps repeating “Nevermore.”
“The Raven” &lt;MS&gt;
3

143904-)
20. In one of this author’s works, a doctor delivers a baby by C-section with a knife while its Native American father slits his own throat. That story features a character who more famously warns that Max and Al will kill Ole Anderson. In addition to writing “Indian Camp” and “The (*) Killers” about Nick Adams, this author wrote a novel whose main character walks back to his hotel in the rain after discovering that his child was stillborn and his wife Catherine Barkley is dead.  For ten points, name this author who wrote about Frederic Henry in A Farewell to Arms.
Ernest Hemingway &lt;MP&gt;
3

143941-)
13. This novel’s narrator describes another’s parking of cars in an incredibly long sentence, and later “realized what a rat” that character was after being abandoned with dysentery in Mexico. That “Holy goof” impregnates Inez despite his involvement with Marylou and Camille, and this novel’s narrator is friends with (*) Old Bull Lee and Remi Boncoeur. This novel’s manuscript was written on a giant scroll, and its character Carlo Marx represents Allen Ginsberg. For ten points, name this Beat novel about the cross-country travels of Dean Moriarty and Sal Paradise written by Jack Kerouac.
On the Road &lt;MS&gt;
3

143971-)
21. In one of this author’s unfinished works, Ushant, the Duke of Tintagel, marries Nan St. George. In another of her novels, the protagonist ultimately divorces Raymond De Chelles to re-marry Elmer Moffatt. In addition to writing The Buccaneers and about Undine Spragg in The (*) Custom of the Country, this author wrote a novel in which Mattie Silver and the protagonist try to commit suicide via sled-ride into a tree. May Welland’s husband Newland Archer has an affair with Ellen Olenska in a work by, for ten points, what author of Ethan Frome and The Age of Innocence?
Edith Wharton &lt;KT&gt;
3

143976-)
4. The title character of one of this author’s novels is engaged to Lucy Tartan and murders Glen Stanley. In one of this author’s novellas, a falling tarp reveals the corpse of slavemaster Alexandro Aranda on the San Dominick as Babo chases (*) Benito Cereno. Nippers, Turkey, and Ginger Nut work with the title character of one of his short stories who responds to requests with “I would prefer not to.” This author of “Bartleby the Scrivener” wrote a novel featuring the First Mate Starbuck and beginning “Call me Ishmael.” For ten points, identify this American author who described Captain Ahab’s hunt for the title whale in Moby-Dick.
Herman Melville &lt;MS&gt;
3

144006-)
12. The final part of this poem extols the “crazy shepherds of rebellion” and “vast lamb of the middle class” before mentioning a character who, in a dream, walks “dripping from a sea-journey.” This poem exclaims “Old men weeping in the parks!” after asking “what sphinx of cement or aluminum bashed open their skulls,” and the narrator later tells (*) Carl Solomon that he’s with him in Rockland. This poem describes “angelheaded hipsters” dragging themselves through the streets. For ten points, identify this poem beginning “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness,” written by Beat poet Allen Ginsberg.
“Howl” &lt;MS&gt;
3

144007-)
13. A character in this work describes Delly Cartwright as the friendliest person on the planet, and that same character later kills Marvel.  Octavia sports green skin in this novel, and the main character in this work frequently barters in the Hob.  (*) Foxface dies in this novel by eating nightlock, and the main character’s sister owns pets named Lady and Buttercup. Gale Hawthorne’s father was killed during a mining accident before the events of this novel, whose title event is overseen by Seneca Crane and President Snow. For ten points, name this novel in which Peeta Melark and Katniss Everdeen represent District 12 as tributes sent to the Capital to participate in a battle to the death.
The Hunger Games &lt;CC&gt;
3

144034-)
18. In one of this author’s poems, “someones married their everyones” and the title character “sang his didn’t” and “danced his did” in a place where “up so floating many bells down.” Another of his poems centers on a man who, “unless statistics lie” was “more brave than me, more blond than you,” “a conscientious object-or” “whose warmest heart recoiled at war.” This man wrote about his (*) arrest alongside William Brown in The Enormous Room and penned the poems “Anyone Lived in a Pretty How Town” and “I Sing of Olaf Glad and Big.” For ten points, identify this poet notorious for often omitting punctuation and capital letters.
edward estlin cummings &lt;MS&gt;
3

144040-)
2. One character in this story says he would “smack [the antagonist] in the face,” and the central group waves to a black boy with “no britches.” After leaving Red Sammy’s diner, this work’s protagonist mentions a house with secret passages. In this story, Bobby Lee leads John Wesley into the woods to be shot, soon followed by John’s father (*) Bailey, all thanks to the protagonist’s recognizing a bespectacled man on the family’s trip to Florida. For ten points, identify this short story in which a grandmother and her family are murdered by escaped convict the Misfit, a work of Flannery O’Connor.
“A Good Man is Hard to Find” &lt;MS&gt;
3

144046-)
8. Gifts called zawadi are given on this holiday’s final day, and libations are poured from a “Unity Cup” on its penultimate day, during the ritual of tambiko. This holiday’s Nguzu Saba, or Seven Principles, include imani and kuumba, meaning faith and creativity, respectively, and the (*) seven-branched kinara is used during it. This holiday was created in 1966 by Maulana Karenga, and includes the lighting of three red, three green, and one black candle. For ten points, identify this week-long holiday in late December, which celebrates African-American culture.
Kwanzaa &lt;MS&gt;
3

144061-)
1. In one poem by an author with this surname, the speaker discusses a “fulcrum of violence” where the title bird “hangs still;” that author wrote The Hawk in the Rain and Tales from Ovid. Another author with this last name wrote a poem whose speaker “bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young” and whose “soul has (*) grown deep.” That author of “The Negro Speaks of Rivers” asked whether the central object “fester[s] like a sore” or “drie[s] up / like a raisin in the sun” in his poem about “a dream deferred.” For ten points, identify this last name shared by Sylvia Plath’s husband Ted and Harlem Renaissance poet Langston.
Hughes (accept Ted or Langston Hughes before mention) &lt;MS&gt;
3

144091-)
9. This author wrote a work in which the speaker has “passed by the watchman on his beat / and dropped my eyes”, while another of his poems mentions that Mary “sat musing on the lamp-flame at the table” before telling Warren “Silas is back.”   This author of  “Acquainted with the Night” and (*) “Death of the Hired Man” wrote another poem in which the narrator “look[ed] down one [path] as far as [he] could/ To where it bent in the undergrowth.”  That poem claims that the speaker’s decision “made all the difference” after “two roads diverged in a yellow wood”.  For ten points, name this American poet of  “The Road Not Taken.”
Robert Frost &lt;MP&gt;
3

144094-)
12. In one novel, Ethan and Cutbelly’s victory at this game stops Coyote from destroying Michael Chabon’s Summerland. HUAC investigates the Port Ruppert Mundys who play this sport in Philip Roth’s The Great American Novel, and The Chosen opens with a game of it. Jay Gatsby’s friend Meyer Wolfsheim fixes some of these games, and another player of this sport goes back to the pros with the assistance of “Wonderboy” after being shot by Harriet Bird. Besides (*) Roy Hobbs in The Natural, other players of this sport include Flynn and Blake, who tears “the cover off the ball,” and their teammate who brings “no joy to Mudville.” For ten points, identify this sport, played by the title character of Ernest Thayer’s “Casey at the Bat.”
baseball &lt;MS&gt;
3

144120-)
16. In one of this man’s works, a red-headed man has lost his leg after being run over by a train as a child. In another of his novels, Romilayu fails to assist the title character in clearing the frogs from the Arnewi’s water. One his work’s protagonists has lovers Thea Fenchel and Stella Chesney and states “I am an American, (*) Chicago born.” The title character of another of his novels has an affair with Ramona after Madeleine leaves him for Valentine Gersbach. For ten points, identify this author of Henderson the Rain King, The Adventures of Augie March, and Herzog.
Saul Bellow &lt;MS&gt;
3

144147-)
21. A rose bush in this novel is said to have sprung up under the footsteps of Anne Hutchinson. One character in this novel pelts the title object with wildflowers and later tries to wash a kiss off her forehead. Mistress Hibbins invites another character to a witches’ gathering, and a different character sees a meteor while standing on a scaffold after his daughter asks him to stand with her the following noon. (*) Roger Chillingworth attempts to stop Arthur Dimmesdale from confessing to fathering Pearl at the end of this novel. For ten points, name this novel written by Nathaniel Hawthorne in which Hester Prynne is required to wear the title “A.”
The Scarlet Letter &lt;HX&gt;
3

144149-)
1. A character in one of this author’s stories is speculated to have become a Justice of the Ten Pound Court, and horses in that story include Daredevil and Gunpowder. In another of this author’s stories, the protagonist, while out with his dog Wolf, encounters the ghosts of Henry Hudson’s crew very loudly playing ninepins. That character sleeps for (*) twenty years, and this author’s most famous protagonist vies for Katrina van Tassel with Brom Bones before disappearing after a chase with the Headless Horseman. For ten points, identify this American author of “Rip van Winkle,” who told the tale of Ichabod Crane in “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.”
Washington Irving &lt;MS&gt;
3

144173-)
3. In one of this author’s novels, a non-functioning vacuum is given to Sweets Ramirez by Danny, the friend of Pilon. Another of his characters is based on marine biologist Ed Ricketts, and that novel sees Lee Chong, Dora Flood, and Mack help throw a party for Doc. In addition to Tortilla Flat and (*) Cannery Row, this author wrote a novel in which Curley’s wife is accidentally killed by the giant, dimwitted Lennie, and in another of his works, the Joads travel west due to the Dust Bowl.  For ten points, name this American author of Of Mice and Men and The Grapes of Wrath.
John Steinbeck &lt;MiP&gt;
3

144229-)
The protagonist of this novel gets a pair of silver painted boots that were earlier used in a production of Cinderella, and wooden clogs cause one character to die of gangrene. The protagonist of this novel is the only survivor when a plane heading to an optometrist convention crashes. In this novel, Roland Weary convinces Paul Lazarro to avenge his death, and (*) Edgar Derby is executed for stealing a teapot. This work partly takes place in a zoo on Tralfamadore and partly during the firebombing of Dresden in World War II. For 10 points, name this novel about Billy Pilgrim being “unstuck in time” by Kurt Vonnegut.
Slaughterhouse-Five or The Children’s Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144285-)
An author with this surname wrote a poem that states “Monody shall not wake the mariner” and also wrote a long poem with sections such as “Powhatan’s Daughter.” In a story by an author with this surname, the drunkard Scratchy Wilson spares Jack Potter because he’s no longer a bachelor. In another story by that author, the correspondent crawls onto a beach only to find Billie the oiler dead. A protagonist created by an author with this surname (*) travels with the “tattered man” and, with Wilson and Jim Conklin, prepares for battle in its first scene. For 10 points, give this surname of the author of “The Open Boat” and The Red Badge of Courage.
Crane [accept Hart Crane or Stephen Crane] &lt;AP Literature&gt;
4

144288-)
This poet describes a person that “had not on a Crown indeed, A little Palmleaf Hat was all.” In a poem by this author, the speaker sees the grass divide “as with a Comb,” which cause “a tighter breathing / And Zero at the Bone.” This poet describes the moment “when the King Be witnessed – in the Room” and states “and then the Windows failed.” In a poem by this author, the title thing (*) “perches in the soul.” This poet wrote about taking a carriage ride where “the horses’ heads / Were toward Eternity.” For 10 points, name this poet of “I heard a Fly buzz when I died,” “A narrow Fellow in the Grass,” and “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Emily Dickinson &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144295-)
In this novel, Victor’s singing of the song “Ah! Si tu savais!” causes a woman to shatter a wine glass as she demands him to stop. That event in this novel occurs during a party held before the protagonist moves into the “pigeon house.” Other characters in this novel include the piano-playing Mademoiselle (*) Reisz and the constantly pregnant Adele Ratignolle. The protagonist of this novel has an affair with Alcee Arobin while her husband Leonce is away on business. After Robert Lebrun leaves her again, the protagonist of this novel drowns herself by walking into the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, name this novel about Edna Pontellier by Kate Chopin.
The Awakening &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144329-)
In a novel by this author, Chicken Little dies by accidentally being thrown into a river by the title character; that novel follows Nel Wright and other residents of the Bottom. In a novel by this author, First Corinthians and Magdalene are sisters of a boy who receives his nickname because he continued to be breastfed at a late age. Pecola (*) Breedlove wishes to have the title facial feature of one of this author’s novels. In one of her novels, a spirit haunts 124 Bluestone Road years after Sethe escapes from Sweet Home plantation and kills her infant daughter. For 10 points, name this author of The Bluest Eye and Beloved.
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144359-)
This poem describes women as a “shrew of fate” that “does nothing but sit on her ass / and snip the intellectual golden threads of the craftsman’s loom.” The speaker of this poem references a vision of “Mohammedan angels staggering on tenement roofs illuminated.” This poem is dedicated to a man who “presented [himself] on the granite steps of the madhouse” after throwing potato salad at people. The narrator of this poem makes frequent references to a “heavy judger of men!” named Moloch and repeatedly reassures Carl Solomon that “I’m with you in Rockland.” For 10 points, name this poem that begins with the line “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness,” written by Allen Ginsberg.
“Howl” &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144386-)
One of these animals says, “You know what’s the rage this year? …Hats.” while giving his friend a bad haircut. When Mike Tyson tried to kiss his pet, one of these animals, it headbutted him and took out his gold tooth. In his first appearance, one of these animals is baited with a tuna sandwich. In a novel, a boy watches one of these animals knock a hyena off a (*) boat after it kills a zebra. One of these animals claims that his top is made of rubber and his tail is made of springs and lives in the Hundred Acre Wood. For 10 points, Richard Parker in Life of Pi and Calvin’s friend Hobbes are what type of big cat?
tigers [accept Tigger] &lt;NC Trash&gt;
4

144388-)
In a novel by this author, a construction engineer gives his wife Winifred pearl earrings for Christmas and resumes an affair with Hilda Burgoyne. A novel by this author switches to first person in order to retell Tom Outland’s exploration of a cliff city in New Mexico. This author of Alexander’s Bridge and The Professor’s House wrote about the siblings Oscar, Lou, and Alexandra going to buy a hammock from Crazy (*) Ivar after their father, John Bergson, dies. The narrator of a novel by this author, Jim Burden, takes a train to Nebraska with a Bohemian family, the Shimerdas. For 10 points, name this author of O Pioneers! and My Ántonia.
Willa Cather &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144398-)
This character’s family takes pride in being descended from the “Dukes of Buccleuch.” This character remarks that he is one of the few honest people he has ever known after talking to his “incurably dishonest” girlfriend, who cheats at golf. While walking home, this character sees his neighbor staring out across a lake at a (*) green light. This man watches his Yale classmate Tom knock out his mistress after she repeats this character’s cousin’s name. This character moves back to the Midwest after working as a bond salesman in West Egg, where he met a man who loved Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this narrator of F. Scott Fitzgerald’s The Great Gatsby.
Nick Carraway [accept either underlined name] &lt;AP Literature&gt;
4

144405-)
This character accompanies a girl on a trip to Lake Pontchartrain where she tells him that she has seen angels and will be joining them soon. Prue dies after this character helps her carry her basket of hot rolls. One man gives this character a silver dollar while that man’s son teaches this character how to write. On a steamboat heading to New Orleans, this character saves a girl from drowning. After saving (*) Little Eva, he becomes the head coachman for Augustine St. Clare. This husband of Aunt Chloe dies after being flogged to death on the orders of Simon Legree. For 10 points, name this character whose cabin titles a Harriet Beecher Stowe novel.
Uncle Tom &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144426-)
A man in this play yells at the waiter Stanley before asking him about seed stores in the area. A character in this play is afraid that his former boss won’t rehire him because of a time where he stole a crate of basketballs. A distinction in this play is made between people who are “liked” but not “well-liked.” A character in this play burns a (*) pair of sneakers after failing a math test and discovering his father’s affair with a woman in Boston. In this play, the title character crashes his car so that his son Biff can use the life insurance money to start his own business. For 10 points, name this play that ends with Willy Loman’s suicide, by Arthur Miller.
Death of a Salesman &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144445-)
In this novel, a can of insect poison is kept next to the bed of a blacksmith named Whitey. Before the beginning of this novel, the protagonists were forced to leave a town named Weed after one of them was accused of assaulting a woman in a red dress. After Crooks wins a game of horseshoes in this work, (*) Carlson convinces Candy to let him shoot his sheepdog. In this novel, a woman gets her neck broken after allowing a man to stroke her hair. In this work, the killer of Curley’s wife dreams about owning a rabbit farm. For 10 points, name this novel about George and Lennie by John Steinbeck.
Of Mice and Men &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144450-)
In a novel titled for this color, Reno Starkey kills Dinah Brand, who had framed the Continental Op. At the end of a short story, “two desperate men” pay $250 in return for liberty from an annoying child nicknamed for this color. In another short story named for this color, several friends of a dead Prince pull a (*) costume off a visitor, only to find that there is no solid material underneath. In a novel titled for this color, it represents the military interests of Julien Sorel. For 10 points, name this color paired with black in a Stendhal novel which modifies “death” in a Poe short story set at a Masque.
red [accept Red Harvest, “The Masque of the Red Death,” “The Ransom of Red Chief,” or The Red and the Black; do not accept any shade of red] &lt;AP Literature&gt;
4

144461-)
This character stays in the room of a dead girl who titled her sentimental painting “And Art Thou Gone Yes Thou Art Gone Alas.” Affection for Mary Jane inspires this character to hide a sack of gold in a coffin. The carcass of a pig is dragged around by this character in an attempt to fake his death. This character says “alright then, I’ll go to hell” after deciding to (*) rescue a friend from Phelps’ farm. This character travels with two imposters called the Duke and the King, as well as the escaped slave Jim. For 10 points, name this character who travels the Mississippi on a raft and is buds with Tom Sawyer, the title character of a Mark Twain novel.
Huckleberry Finn [or Huck Finn] &lt;JB Literature&gt;
4

144466-)
In a novel by this author, a frequently-mocked priest breaks the cork of a bottle of vermouth while visiting the protagonist. A character created by this author talks to his cramped hands and repeatedly dreams of lions fighting on an African beach. A novel by this author ends with the protagonist walking back to his hotel in the (*) rain after his lover, who the surgeon Rinaldi had introduced him to, dies in childbirth. This creator of Frederic Henry wrote a man who loves the “great Dimaggio” and tries to break an 84-day streak by catching a marlin. For 10 points, name this author of Farewell to Arms and The Old Man and The Sea.
Ernest Hemingway &lt;JB Literature&gt;
4

144475-)
Wallace Stevens wrote that the “plain version” of these things “is a thing apart, the vulgate of experience.” Two galaxies in the constellation Virgo are named after these things of Markarian. A Margaret Atwood poem states that “you fit into me. like a hook into” one of these body parts. In a Poe short story, the narrator feels guilty about removing one of these from Pluto, his pet (*) cat, before hanging it. At the Battle of Hastings, Harold Godwinson was shot in this body part. In Greek myth, a servant of Hera was given the title “Panoptes” because he had one hundred of these body parts. For 10 points, name this organ of sight.
eyes [or Markarian’s eyes] &lt;AP Misc&gt; Bonuses
4

144485-)
Two characters in this novel appear to “balloon” down to a white sofa when a window is closed. A chapter of this novel concludes, “The holocaust was complete.” This novel’s closing line mentions “boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into the past”, and it opens with the narrator recounting advice given to him by his father.  Characters in this novel dread the (*) Valley of the Ashes and its poster of optometrist TJ Eckleburg. Another symbol in this novel is a green light that shines to West Egg all the way from the Buchanans’ dock. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Nick Carraway, set in the Jazz Age, by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Great Gatsby
3

144505-)
This poet wrote, “Life is real! Life is earnest! And the grave is not its goal!” in a poem imagining “footprints on the sands of time.” This author stole the meter from the Kalevala for an epic poem whose hero is born when his mother is impregnated by the wind. He wrote, “Hardly a man is now alive/Who remembers that famous day and year”, referring to the (*) “eighteenth of April, in Seventy-Five.” This Fireside poet fictionalized the Acadian exile from Canada in a romance between Gabriel and Evangeline. He wrote a “song” about Minnehaha and her Native American husband Hiawatha. For 10 points, name this author of “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
3

144525-)
A character created by this author is nearly killed by a blue beetle, a car full of teenagers driving at 130 mph. Two children feed their parents to some lions in their nursery in a story by this author. A novel by this author compares mankind to a phoenix, after the protagonist vows to memorize Ecclesiastes. Jim and Will save their town from Mr. Dark’s (*) carnival in his novel Something Wicked This Way Comes. Mildred obsesses over her four-wall TV in a novel by this author of The Martian Chronicles. He created the Mechanical Hound and Guy Montag. For 10 points, name this author who described book-burning firemen in Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Bradbury
3

144530-)
A poem by this author attests, “I have lived like a foot/For thirty years, poor and white/Barely daring to breathe or Achoo.” One of this author’s characters regrets not being able to choose a single fig from a tree, and hears her heart beating “I am I am I am” at Joan’s funeral. That character constantly feels encased in a stifling glass (*) container. This author wrote, “You do not do, you do not do” and “Every woman adores a Fascist” in a poem from Ariel. This author of “Daddy” published a novel under the name Victoria Lucas about a failed writer who attempts suicide several times. For 10 points, name this wife of Ted Hughes, the author of The Bell Jar.
Sylvia Plath
3

144538-)
One of this author’s speakers says, “I’d like to get away from earth awhile/And then come back to it and begin over.” This poet wrote, “Then leaf subsides to leaf/And Eden sank to grief” in a poem beginning, “Nature’s first hue is gold.” This author declared, “I think I know enough of hate/To say that for destruction (*) ice/is also great/And would suffice.” In a poem set on the “darkest evening of the year”, he wrote about a speaker who has “miles to go before I sleep.” Another poem by this author says “Something there is that doesn’t love a wall” and “Good fences make good neighbors.” For 10 points, name this New England poet of  “The Road Not Taken.”
Robert Frost Bonuses
3

144542-)
This character says, “I’m quite illiterate. But I read a lot.” He reflects that you can’t erase even half the four-letter words in the world, after reminiscing that the best part of a museum is that nobody in it moves. This character decides not to get on a merry-go-round, preferring to stand in the pouring rain. He breaks his (*) hand by punching in the windows of his garage the night that his brother Allie dies of leukemia. He asks several cab drivers if they know where the ducks in Central Park go in the winter. This character wears a red deerslayer hat, leaves Pencey Prep, and visits his sister Phoebe. For 10 points, name this protagonist of The Catcher in the Rye.
Holden Caulfield [prompt on Caulfield]
3

144578-)
Hart Crane’s “The Broken Tower” is the epigraph for this play. A character in this play reflects that soft people have to be attractive, so she buys a paper lantern and constantly takes baths to calm her nerves. Steve and Eunice fight throughout this play. An avid bowler in this play buys a one-way bus ticket to Laurel, (*) Mississippi as a birthday present. This play’s protagonist loses her home of Belle Reve, falls in love with Mitch, and is taken away to an insane asylum, but not before she swears to “the kindness of strangers.” For 10 points, name this play about Blanche DuBois and the Kowalskis, set in New Orleans, and written by Tennessee Williams.
A Streetcar Named Desire Note to moderator: Pause at each comma, momentarily, in the second sentence.
3

144583-)
John Cage wrote a mesostic titled, “Walking through” this other poem. 44 consecutive lines of this poem begin with the word “who.” This poem’s first appearance at the Six Gallery Reading is recounted in The Dharma Bums. This poem recounts people who were dragged through the negro streets at dawn, (*) “starving hysterical naked.” Its third section repeatedly exclaims, “I’m with you in Rockland.” Sale of this poem at the City Lights bookstore prompted an obscenity trial. This poem repeatedly invokes Moloch and begins by describing the “best minds of my generation, destroyed by madness.” For 10 points, name this epic Beat poem by Allen Ginsberg.
“Howl”
3

144616-)
A character immediately steals a donut after he is given a “choice apple” for performing this action. A character performs this action after getting dirty in a fistfight with Alfred Temple, but longs to visit Cardiff Hill instead. In Chapter 2, Jim is beaten with a slipper for doing this action in (*) exchange for seeing a sore toe. Ben Rogers admits that this activity is better than swimming, then offers an apple in order to do it. The protagonist explains that even Sid isn’t up to this task, since Aunt Polly only trusts him to do it. For 10 points, name this chore that Tom Sawyer connives half the town into performing.
whitewashing the fence [or painting the fence; or Tom Sawyer not whitewashing the fence, as the case may be; answers like convincing other people to paint the fence are fine, too]
3

144624-)
A character created by this author exclaims, “A man is not a piece of fruit”, and contrasts being “liked” with being “well-liked” in a flashback.  Another of his characters shrieks, “She makes me drink blood!” to explain why seven children of Goody Putnam died. This author directed no walls to be put on stage in a play whose protagonist regrets not going to (*) Alaska during the gold rush. That play ends when the protagonist crashes his car to give his sons the insurance money. Abigail gets Elizabeth, then John Proctor, convicted of witchcraft in this author’s McCarthy-era play The Crucible. For 10 points, name this author of Death of a Salesman.
Arthur Miller
3

144643-)
This author created a character who will die because he forgot to treat a thorn scratch on his leg with iodine.  He described an iceberg only one-eighth above water in Death in the Afternoon. Apocryphally, this man wrote a short story that reads, “For sale. Baby shoes. Never worn." George and Al are Chicago mobsters in this author’s story “The (*) Killers”, one of his many Nick Adams stories. This author created a character who idolizes Joe diMaggio and brings a skeleton of a fish back to shore after it's eaten by sharks. In that novella, Santiago catches a marlin in the Gulf Stream. For 10 points, name this author of The Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest Hemingway Bonuses
3

144663-)
A poem by this author notes that “The stars went out and so did the moon” and the central subject “slept like a rock or a man that’s dead.” This author translated Federico García Lorca into English. This author called life a “barren field/Frozen with snow” and a “broken-winged bird/That cannot fly.” A train ride to Mexico inspired this poet to assert that “My soul has grown (*) deep like the rivers.” This poet melodramatically asked “Or does it explode?”, after considering if a dream deferred dries up like a raisin in the sun. For 10 points, name this author of “The Negro Speaks of Rivers”, the main poet of the Harlem Renaissance.
Langston Hughes
3

144684-)
Two consecutive chapters in this novel are both titled “Knights and Squires.” Its chapters “Dusk” and “Sunset” are written in the form of a play. This novel, which begins with a chapter called “Loomings” and a dedication to Nathaniel Hawthorne, ends with three chapters titled “The Chase”. This book’s middle section has (*) nonfiction chapters, like “The Gam” and “Cetology.” In its chapter “The Bosom-Friend”, the narrator meets a cannibal at the Spouter Inn in Nantucket. Chapters in this novel include “The Pequod Meets the Rachel” and “Queequeg in His Coffin”. For 10 points, name this novel about Ishmael and Captain Ahab, by Herman Melville.
Moby-Dick; or The Whale
3

144705-)
This author created a policeman who arrests his best friend of twenty years after recognizing his face from a wanted ad. This author wrote about a character who promises not to die until all the leaves fall off a vine, so an artist paints a leaf in place. One of this author’s characters fails to get arrested until he loiters in front of a church. Two (*) kidnappers pay a father to take back his bratty son in another story by this author. This writer described a woman who sells her hair to buy a chain, and her husband, who sells his watch to buy a comb, in a Christmas story. For 10 points, name this author of “The Gift of the Magi” and other stories with surprise endings.
O’Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
3

144708-)
In a depressing story by this author, a boy’s father throws his pet dark-brown dog out of a window. A novel by this author ends by describing the protagonist’s “quiet manhood” as the sun finally comes out. This author fictionalized himself as the “correspondent” in a story based on his experience surviving a shipwreck. This writer brought naturalism to the US with a story about a Manhattan (*) “girl of the streets” named Maggie. This author of “The Open Boat” was 22 years old and had never served in a war when he wrote about battle-wound-craving soldier Henry Fleming. For 10 points, name this author of The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane
3

144741-)
A poem by this author gave EM Forster the title “A Passage to India.” A collection by this author originally contained twelve poems but was updated into a final “deathbed edition.” This author’s “Calamus” poems are the most overt proof of his homosexuality. This author’s experience nursing wounds during the  (*) Civil War inspired his collection Drum-Taps. He wrote about a “powerful, western, fallen star” and mentioned that “our fearful trip is won” in two poems memorializing Abraham Lincoln. For 10 points, name this author of “Song of Myself” and “O Captain, My Captain”, two poems from Leaves of Grass.
Walt Whitman
3

144745-)
The protagonist of this story is recognized because he wrote a book about snow leopards. After it is decided that one character will “furnish a repast for the hounds”, the narrator of this story reflects that he has never slept in a better bed. This story’s protagonist constructs a Burmese tiger pit and a Malay man-catcher, impales Ivan with a knife, then jumps off a cliff from (*) Ship-Trap Island and sneaks back into the chateau. After he falls off a yacht, Rainsford plays a game of cat-and-mouse with General Zaroff in this story. For 10 points, name this frequently anthologized story by Richard Connell, whose title refers to hunting men.
“The Most Dangerous Game”
3

144753-)
This character, and the cat Rose Aylmer, are given vitamins from the same eyedropper. This character finds her beau Henry Clinton at a citizens’ council meeting after discovering the pamphlet The Black Plague. She finds a blanket draped around her shoulders while watching a neighbor’s house burn down. Uncle Jack and Aunt (*) Alexandra take care of this character. She is mortified to learn that her father is a member of the Ku Klux Klan. This character is called Jean-Louise through most of Go Set a Watchman. She is saved by Boo Radley from an attack by Bob Ewell. For 10 points, name this daughter of Atticus, the narrator of To Kill a Mockingbird.
Scout Finch [or Jean-Louise Finch until it is read; prompt on Finch]
3

144779-)
10. This author wrote a poem in which the speaker describes “The skies” as “ashen and sober,” and another poem depicted a ruler that has “won usurpingly...the same heritage hath giv’n/Rome to the Caesar.” In addition to Ulalame and Tamerlane, he wrote a short story narrated by a man who reads The Mad Tryst to (*) Roderick shortly before the title event occurs. The most famous work of this writer of The Fall of the House of Usher asks if there is “balm in Gilead” and laments the loss of Lenore. For ten points, name this American poet who wrote The Raven.
Edgar Allen Poe &lt;MP&gt;
3

144790-)
21. One character in this play is kicked out of the Flamingo Hotel due to her immoral behavior. A former English teacher in this work is fired because of an affair with a 17-year-old student, and a character who resides in Elysian Fields Avenue throws a radio out of a window during (*) Mitch’s poker game in this work. When the protagonist is taken to an asylum in the last scene of this play, she tells another character that she “always depended on the kindness of strangers.” Stanley rapes the sister of Stella Kowalski in, for ten points, what play by Tennessee Williams about a Southern Belle named Blanche Dubois?
A Streetcar Named Desire &lt;KT&gt;
3

144800-)
9. In one work by this author, a poor family discovers a scythe amid a field of strangely-growing wheat with the inscription, “Who wields me-- wields the world!” In addition to writing The Scythe in his collection The October Country, this author wrote a novel set in Green Town about Tom and his brother (*) Douglas Spaulding’s adventures during the summer. Mildred takes too many sleeping pills in his most famous work, whose protagonist kills Captain Beatty, destroys The Hound, and burns books before preserving them. For ten points, identify this author of Dandelion Wine and a work about the fireman Guy Montag, Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Douglas Bradbury &lt;KT&gt;
3

144819-)
6. In this novel, a police officer kills one character by crushing his skull with a pick-handle, and that character was arrested due to the outspokenness of Floyd Knowles. Ivy and Sairy Wilson accompany the protagonist of this novel on a trip which Muley Graves refuses to attend. In that trip, (*) Connie Rivers abandons his wife Rose of Sharon. The former preacher Jim Casy is involved in a strike, and his friend Tom becomes a fugitive at the end of this novel after committing a murder. For ten points, name this work in which the Joad family travels to California from Oklahoma during the Great Depression, a novel written by John Steinbeck.
The Grapes of Wrath &lt;KT&gt;
3

144839-)
4. This poem describes how “dews grew quivering and chill” after the narrator had “passed the fields of grazing grain” and “passed the setting sun.” The speaker pauses before a house that seemed “a swelling of the ground” which had a “roof [that] was scarcely visible.” The narrator “passed the school, where the children stove” and surmised that the (*) “horses’ heads/ Were pointed toward eternity.” Along with the title figure, the speaker of this poem rides in a “carriage [that] held but just [themselves]/And Immortality.” For ten points, name this Emily Dickinson poem in which the title figure “kindly stopped for [her].”
“Because I could not stop for Death” &lt;KT&gt;
3

144863-)
6. In this novel, one character is painted blue and is called the “Sick Arab”. In another scene, the brothers of the deceased Peter Wilks are impersonated by two boys who hold a play called “The Royal Nonesuch” and claim to be a duke and dauphin. The title character of this novel is frightened by a feud between the (*) Grangerfords and Shepherdsons, and later teams up with Sid to rescue a slave in Phelps’ plantation. That title character, the son of the drunkard Pap, befriends Miss Watson’s slave, Jim. For ten points, name this work written by Mark Twain, a sequel to The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn &lt;KT&gt;
3

144890-)
11. The speaker of this poem notes how the title entity laughs “with white teeth” and “as an ignorant fighter laughs who has never lost a battle”. Although the speaker concedes that he has seen “the gunman kill and go free to kill again” and “painted women under the gas lamps”, he issues a challenge to, “Come and show me another (*) city with lifted head singing” and defends the title entity of this poem by asserting that it is a “Player with Railroads and the Nation's Freight Handler”. For ten points, name this Carl Sandburg poem which calls the title city a “Tool maker”, “Stacker of Wheat”, and “Hog Butcher for the world”.
“Chicago” &lt;KT&gt;
3

144907-)
6. This work notes that “Dry bones can harm no one” before a rooster crows, “Co co rico co co rico”. Another section of this work describes a character who “was once handsome and tall like you” but is now “a fortnight dead”, named Phlebas the Phoenician. The phrases “Unreal city” and (*) “HURRY UP PLEASE IT’S TIME” repeat in this poem, which features sections like “What the Thunder Said” and “The Burial of the Dead”. This work ends with a triple repetition of the Sanskrit word for peace, “Shantih, shantih, shantih”. For ten points, identify this 434-line modernist poem written by T.S. Eliot which opens with the line, “April is the cruellest month”.
The Waste Land &lt;KT&gt;
3

144932-)
9. This author wrote a work in which Bruce, an English professor in Manhattan, is offered the opportunity to be the first Jewish Secretary of State. This author of Good as Gold also wrote a work in which Giuseppe shouts that he sees everything twice and McWatt commits suicide after killing Kid Sampson. In that work, (*) Nately’s whore repeatedly tries to kill the protagonist, whose mentality changes after the death of Snowden. For ten points, identify this author of a work in which Milo Minderbinder creates a profitable syndicate and Yossarian serves as a B-25 bomber in the 256th squadron, Catch-22.
Joseph Heller &lt;KT&gt;
3

144956-)
11. This author wrote a novel in which a character who enjoys “fish with dynamite” is the right hand man of a man who almost died by a falling tree and cherishes the view atop “Mount Vision”, Judge Marmaduke Temple. In another of his works, Tamenund, the “Sache” of the Delaware, frees his prisoners after witnessing a turtle tattoo. In that work by this author of (*) The Pioneers, Magua kills the son of Chingachgook, Uncas, despite the attempts of Hawkeye to save him. For ten points, name this American author who wrote about Natty Bumppo in The Last of the Mohicans, the second of his Leatherstocking Tales.
James Fenimore Cooper &lt;KT&gt;
3

144970-)
3. This author wrote a short story in which Mrs. Sommers pays a dollar and ninety-eight cents for an eight-and-a-half sized item. In addition writing “A Pair of Silk Stockings,” this author wrote a story in which Louise repeats the word “free” after Josephine tells her that Brently Mallard died from a railroad accident. The protagonist from this author’s most famous novel bursts into tears at (*) Mademoiselle Reisz’s piano recital before returning to Grand Isle, where she had met Robert Lebrun, and drowning herself in the Gulf of Mexico. For ten points, identify this American author of “The Story of an Hour” who wrote about Edna Pontellier in The Awakening.
Kate Chopin &lt;KT&gt;
3

144990-)
1. This author wrote a play in which a character performing calisthenics reveals to his half-buried Grandma that he is the angel of death. In another of his plays, a Western Union representative informs a central character that his son died trying to avoid hitting a porcupine with his car. Yet another of his plays ends with Jerry committing suicide with a knife held by (*) Peter after sitting on a bench in Central Park. In the most famous work by this author of The Sandbox and The Zoo Story, Nick and Honey play games like “Get the Guest” at the house of George and Martha. For ten points, identify this American playwright of Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?.
Edward Franklin Albee III &lt;KT&gt;
3

145015-)
4. This character witnesses a man and a woman exchanging mouthfuls of a liquid in a nearby room, compelling him to ask Faith Cavendish out on a date. Earlier, he has a conversation with the mother of Ernest Morrow in which he pretends to be the janitor Rudolf Schmidt. This character is irritated by the poor hygiene of Ackley and (*) Stradlater, the latter of whom also dates his love interest, Jane Gallagher. Maurice later beats up this character, who dislikes “phonies” and is kicked out of Pencey Prep. For ten points, name this brother of Allie, D.B., and Phoebe, the main character of J.D. Salinger’s novel, The Catcher in the Rye.
Holden Caulfield [accept either underlined portion] &lt;KT&gt;
3

145054-)
21. The speaker of one of this poet’s works commands the reader to “Take thou the world and all that will” in a poem describing “The Flesh and the Spirit”. The speaker of another of her poems “washed [the] face” and “stretched the joints” of the title object, which is an “ill-formed offspring.” In yet another work, the speaker was “waken’d… with thund’ring noise” in a “silent night” after which she notes how “the world no longer let [her] love”. This poet of (*) “The Author to Her Book” wrote that “if two were ever one then surely we” in a poem addressed “To [her] Dear and Loving Husband.” For ten points, identify this poet of The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet [accept Anne Dudley] &lt;KT&gt;
3

145074-)
19. In one poem, this author wrote “i carry your heart with me” and “i am never without it.” In another work, this poet described characters who “went down to the beach (to play one day)” before remarking that “it’s always ourselves we find in the sea.” An autobiographical novel by this man focuses on his imprisonment in La Ferté-Macé during the First World War. This poet of (*) “Maggie and Molly and Millie and May” wrote about a character “whose warmest heart recoiled at war” and about a place “with up so floating many bells down.” For ten points, identify this author of The Enormous Room, “i sing of Olaf, glad and big” and “anyone lived in a pretty how town.”
edward estlin cummings &lt;KT&gt;
3

145097-)
20. In one of this author’s poems, the narrator describes “A field where a thousand corpses lie” and urges a maiden to “not weep” “for war is kind.” In another work, Scratchy Wilson reconsiders his plan to confront Jack Potter after realizing his married status. This author of (*) “The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky” also wrote a work in which Mary Johnson’s daughter resorts to prostitution after breaking up with Pete, but he is most famous for a work in which the protagonist accompanies the “tattered soldier” in seeing the death of Jim Conklin. For ten points, name this American author who wrote Maggie: A Girl of the Streets and about Henry Fleming in The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane &lt;KT&gt;
3

145118-)
19. After listening to the whistling of George Washington, the protagonist of this novel manages to keep himself from saying the word “but.” Characters the protagonist of this novel meets include Alec Bings, the conductor Chroma, and the genie “Dynne.” After venturing to the Castle in the (*) Air, the main characters of this novel flee demons before being rescued by the armies of Wisdom. The main character of this novel meets the Humbug and the “watchdog” Tock, with whom he rescues the princesses Rhyme and Reason. For 10 points, name this children’s novel by Norton Juster in which a magic device transports Milo to a kingdom full of puns and wordplay.
The Phantom Tollbooth
4

145131-)
Prominent members of this group who took part in the Six Gallery Reading include Gary Snyder and Wally Hedrick. One member published “I am Waiting” and “Junkman’s Obbligato” in his collection A Coney Island of the Mind after founding the City Lights bookstore. Another poet of this movement penned the lines “Holy the Fifth International!” and “Moloch! Solitude! Filth! Ugliness!” in a poem dedicated to Carl Solomon, which begins “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.” For 10 points, identify this anti-establishment movement, which included Lawrence Ferlinghetti, Jack Kerouac, and the poet of Howl, Allen Ginsberg.
The Beat Generation [or Beat movement; or Beat poets; or beatniks] &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145157-)
This writer described “balm-yards” and described Jamaica as a rooster’s nest in the non-fiction study Tell My Horse. In one novel, this author created Mehaley, Big ‘Oman, and Hattie, three lovers of John Buddy Pearson. Another novel by this author of Jonah’s Gourd Vine is narrated to Pheoby by the protagonist upon her return to Eatonville, and depicts her relationships with Logan Killicks and Joe Starks. This woman ended that same novel with a flood in the Florida Everglades in which the rabid Tea Cake is shot by his wife Janie. For 10 points, name this anthropologist and black female author of Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Zora Neale Hurston &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145169-)
One character in this play is mocked for not knowing which side of a cow has horns and tries to play the song “The Sunshine of Paradise Alley;” another is the son of a wealthy bucket manufacturer named Bill Oban. This play’s three female characters include Margie and Pearl, who call themselves “tarts” rather than whores. The proprietor of this play’s indoor setting hasn’t left it for twenty years, since his wife Bess’s death. Don Parritt finds an ex-anarchist named Larry in this play, whose intoxicated cast talks with a salesman named Hickey about their “pipe dreams.” For 10 points, name this play about the deadbeats at Harry Hope’s bar, by Eugene O’Neill.
The Iceman Cometh &lt;MJ&gt;
4

145180-)
In this novel, a dream about the protagonist’s grandmother Marie turns out to be about an aged version of the protagonist. This novel’s narrator thinks about Paris’s slaying by Romeo in its epilogue. In a film version of this book, four months of weather changes occur outside a bedroom window as the camera rotates around a girl sitting still. This book’s plot opens with a girl getting a paper cut unwrapping a birthday present. Aro is first seen leading the Volturi cabal in this book after Carlisle’s family leaves Forks. Jacob Black first admits that he is a werewolf in, for 10 points, what book preceding Eclipse, Stephenie Meyer’s sequel to Twilight?
The Twilight Saga: New Moon [do not accept or prompt “Twilight” at any point] &lt;MJ&gt;
4

145184-)
One girl created by this author opines “He could do so much for me if he just would,” and gets pills filled with talcum powder at a pharmacy. This man created Abner, who ruins a rug and slaps his son Sarty in his short story “Barn Burning,” one of many about the Snopes family. In a book by him, Cora Tull judges a family whose father wants a new set of dentures, and whose youngest son, Vardaman, states “My mother is a fish.” He also wrote of a Harvard freshman’s suicide and Quentin’s retarded brother Benjy Compson. For 10 points, name this author who used his Yoknawpatapha County, Mississippi setting for As I Lay Dying and The Sound and the Fury.
William Cuthbert Faulkner &lt;MJ&gt;
4

145194-)
This poet wrote asking “Is my verse alive?” to Thomas Higginson, and wrote a series of “Master” poems addressed to a “lover for all eternity.” In one poem, this writer described “a House that seemed / A Swelling in the Ground” along a long, slow journey, and the title of another poem claims, “There is no frigate like a book.” Another poem by this woman, a frequent user of “slant rhyme,” describes “The Stillness in the Air” when she died, and ends “I could not see to see.” For 10 points, name this woman whose wrote “I heard a Fly buzz” and “Because I could not stop for Death” while living in Massachusetts as a recluse.
Emily Elizabeth Dickinson &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145220-)
This author portrayed Florens, Lina, and Rebekah, the slave, servant, and wife of Dutchman Jacob Vaark, in a recent novel set in the 17th century. In another novel by this author, set in the town of Medallion, Nell Wright witnesses the title character causing Chicken Little’s death by drowning. In a third work by this author of A Mercy, Baby Suggs dies in the house 124 Bluestone Road, where Paul D comes to live as the lover of the protagonist. In that book by this Ohioan author of Sula, Sethe is haunted by the spirit of the infant daughter she killed after escaping slavery. For 10 points, name this American woman whose novels include Beloved.
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford] &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145262-)
In one story by this man, a boy goes with his father to deliver a baby, and the baby’s father quietly commits suicide during the Caesarean section. In another short story by him, the same boy, now an young man, encounters Max and Al in a George’s restaurant, as they plot to murder the Swedish boxer Ole Andreson. A third short story by this author begins by describing a frozen leopard carcass, and ends with Harry hallucinating a flight over the title mountain while dying on safari. For 10 points, name this American whose “Indian Camp” and “The Killers” feature Nick Adams, who also wrote “The Snows of Kilimanjaro” and set his novel The Sun Also Rises in Spain.
Ernest Miller Hemingway &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145277-)
The book’s protagonist is trained in rhetoric by Hambro, sleeps with Sibyl, and gets in trouble for taking a man to the Golden Day saloon and allowing him to meet Trueblood. Its title character is injured in a paint factory explosion after being expelled by Dr. Bledsoe, and is enraged by the death of Todd Clifton, a member of the Brotherhood. This novel closes with a riot involving Ras the Exhorter in Harlem, and opens with the title character, who lives in a basement illuminated by over a thousand light bulbs, forced into a “battle royal” with other blacks. For 10 points, name this magnum opus of Ralph Ellison, whose namesake character is unperceived due to his race.
Invisible Man [do not accept “The Invisible Man”] &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145302-)
In one story by this author, which starts by describing still leaves, Calixta chooses to marry the wealthy Bobinot before a passionate encounter with Alcée; in another, the Valmondes’ adopted daughter is evicted from L’Abri by Armand Aubigny after she gives birth to a biracial child. In a novel by this author of “The Storm” and “Desiree’s Baby,” two twins in blue and a lady in black vacation on the Grand Isle with Madame Ratignolle and the protagonist. In that novel, after abortive affairs with Alcée Arobin and Robert Lebrun, Edna Pontellier thinks of her childhood and drowns herself. For 10 points, name this Louisianan author of The Awakening.
Kate Chopin [or Katherine O’Flaherty] &lt;GL&gt;
4

145322-)
One of this character’s lies is exposed after his half-brother points out the color of the thread in his collar. He exonerates a man who did not kill Dr. Robinson, a drunkard named Muff Potter. In a book titled for this character, he and a friend hunt for treasure when they find a man disguised as a deaf and dumb Spaniard. This character attends his own funeral and is briefly “engaged” to Amy Lawrence; he also gets lost in McDougal’s Cave, where he finds Injun Joe’s dead, with Becky Thatcher. For 10 points, name this boy who tricks his friends into whitewashing a fence for him, a Mark Twain character who befriends Huckleberry Finn.
Tom Sawyer [accept either underlined name] &lt;GL&gt;
4

145325-)
This short story’s first sentence says that “the flowers were blossoming profusely,” and a flock of schoolkids in it includes Dickie Delacroix (“Dellacroy”). Clyde Dunbar has a broken leg in this story, in which Mr. Graves enters the scene carrying a three-legged stool. Old Man Warner hopes for a good corn crop in this story, which involves a black box from Mr. Summers’s coal company. This story is set on June 27th, on which day Tessie Huthcinson screams “It isn’t fair!” For 10 points, name this short story in which a woman is stoned to death after her name is pulled out of a box, by Shirley Jackson.
“The Lottery” &lt;GL&gt;
4

145337-)
A Catholic boy from this city chooses alcoholism and promiscuity over his love for Lucy Scanlan in James T. Farrell’s Studs Lonigan trilogy. A gangster who smashes Charlie Citrine’s car for unpaid poker debts, Roland Cantabile, hails from this city in Humboldt’s Gift. A man from here who accompanies Thea Fenchel to Mexico, calls this city “somber,” and works for Einhorn, is Saul Bellow’s Augie March. Ona’s rape by a Packingtown foreman in this city inspires Jurgis Rudkus, a Lithuanian immigrant, to go socialist. For 10 points, name this subject of a Carl Sandburg poem, an American city whose meatpacking industry was chronicled in Upton Sinclair’s The Jungle.
Chicago &lt;GL&gt;
4

145369-)
In one of this author’s short stories, which repeats the sounds “Ugh! Ugh! Ugh!” five times in a row to depict a cough, a noble mentions that his family motto is “Nemo me impune lacessit.” A story by this author features Jupiter, a servant who helps the treasure-seeking William Legrand. A cry of “For the love of God, Montresor!” comes as Fortunato is entombed in a short story by this author of “The Gold Bug” and “The Cask of Amontillado.” This creator of the detective C. Auguste Dupin also mentioned a “bust of Pallas” in a poem whose title bird repeatedly says “Nevermore.” For 10 points, name this author of “The Raven.”
Edgar Allan Poe &lt;JW&gt;
4

145388-)
In one short story by this author, a Suicide Hostess is abducted by Billy the Poet. A collection titled for this author’s story “Welcome to the Monkey House” also featured a world where all talents are equalized in “Harrison Bergeron”. One of his characters fantasizes about waking up naked next to Montana Wildhack; he wrote of that ophthalmologist from Ilium, New York being abducted by aliens from planet Tralfamadore and becoming “unstuck in time.” This author devised ice-nine, which can freeze the whole world, and Kilgore Trout appears throughout his work. For 10 points, name this American author of Cat’s Cradle and Slaughterhouse Five.
Kurt Vonnegut Jr. &lt;DL&gt;
4

145395-)
This author wrote an unfinished novel about a murderers’ agency which turns on its founder, The Assassination Bureau, Limited, and Professor Smith survives an outbreak that begins in 2013 in his “The Scarlet Plague.” This author also wrote a novel in which the Everhard Manuscript depicts America’s fall to an oligarchical regime, called The Iron Heel. He depicted Humphrey van Weyden’s adventures aboard the ship Ghost, a man suffering from extreme cold on the Yukon trail, and an animal who kills Yeehat Indians after pulling a sled. For 10 points, name this American author of “To Build a Fire” and The Sea-Wolf, who wrote of the dog Buck in The Call of the Wild.
John Griffith “Jack” London &lt;AT&gt;
4

145401-)
One character in this book stops himself from “methodically [knocking] people’s hats off” in the street when he gets grim; its other characters include Dough-Boy. Father Mapple’s sermon is in this book, in which a foreigner gets himself a coffin. Its 135th chapter includes the quote “From hell’s heart I stab at thee.” Pip goes crazy after Stubb leaves in this book, in which a death is foretold by the “Parsee” Fedallah. In this novel, Tashtego is denied a gold doubloon nailed to a mast. Starbuck and the harpooner Queequeg serve on the Pequod under the peg-legged Captain Ahab in this novel. For 10 points, name this novel about the hunt for a white whale, by Herman Melville.
Moby-Dick; or The Whale &lt;JW/MJ&gt;
4

145419-)
This critic’s example of "modern Broadway producers" using a "reliable person" to count the number of laughs in the audience is part of his attack on "Personal Registrations" as a source of legitimate criticism. An essay by this author argues "the poet perpetuates, in his poem, an order of existence, which in actual life is constantly crumbling". A book by this critic praises metaphysical poetry for causing the reader to revel in the "dinglich substance" of the "world's body". This author included his essay "Criticism Inc." in a volume arguing against "scientific rationalism" and instead advocating an aesthetic approach to poetry. The term "New Criticism" was coined in a book of the same name by this author, who helped compile I'll Take My Stand, a volume of Southern Agrarian manifestoes. For 10 points, name this critic, better known as the Fugitive poet who wrote "Bells for John Whiteside's Daughter".
John Crowe Ransom
9

145432-)
When this story’s narrator spends a year "visiting the depths of Asia," he spend hours "before the temple of gods and the sepulchers of kings" and his spirit turns to the "nobleness of association." A character in this story asks "What's the most inveterate mark of men in general?" during a speech in which she says “I’m your dull woman, a part of the daily bread for which [the protagonist prays] at church.” This novella opens with the protagonist staying at an estate called Weatherend, where he sees a woman whom he had met in Italy ten years prior, and had told her a mysterious secret. The protagonist of this story undergoes the "horror of waking" as he realizes he wasted his own "taste of life" after having a chance encounter at the grave of his deceased wife, May Bertram. For 10 points, name this story in which John Marcher awaits for some calamity to stricken him, written by Henry James.
"The Beast in the Jungle"
9

145446-)
Creator and genre required. In one of these works, the author writes "they are quiet, they demand no attention, they are not empty" below a shot of a rear-view mirror. Another contains a photo of two donuts on a tray. A set of five of these, including the previously described Park / Sleep and Partida, are visual diaries, and include one whose cover features two arrows, Tal Uf Tal Ab. Their creator’s filmographic work on About Me: A Musical and Pull My Daisy appeared in another of these texts called The Lines of My Hand. The most famous of these texts includes a depiction of that "little ole lonely elevator" surrounded by "blurred demons". That one of these texts captures the "music coming out of the jukebox" or a "nearby funeral" according to Jack Kerouac's introductory essay and includes photos of a drive-in movie theater and a gas station their creator took while on a Guggenheim grant. For 10 points, name these works, which include The Americans, and which were all made by a Swiss-born photographer.
photography books by Robert Frank [or photography collections by Robert Frank]
9

145448-)
J. F. Kobler argued that this author had a "sympathetic view of homosexuality" by analyzing his constant revisions to a story in which Phil tries to convince a girl to stay with him. A “reconsideration” of this author suggests that his characters are distinguished from those who “let down their hair” and are “generally messy”. This author is the subject of two books subtitled "A Life Story" and "The Writer as Artist" by Carlos Baker, both of which reject the "wound theory," that holds many of his protagonists were inspired by an injury this author received in the 1910s. Philip Young's idea that this author's characters have the “controls of honor and courage" which "make a man a man" led him to the proposal that this author’s characters are "code heroes”. For 10 points, name this author, who once reassured F. Scott Fitzgerald of his manhood by comparing his junk to nude statues in the Louvre, an incident recounted in his book A Movable Feast.
Ernest Hemingway [or Ernest Miller Hemingway]
9

145465-)
This work's last section prognosticates that “Grandstands will disappear because no one will be there to occupy them” and denounces the sports of boxing and wrestling as savage behaviors. A section of this text about the “means of transportation” declares that “no person” has the “authority to own a means of transportation for the purpose of renting it,” since it means controlling the needs of others. The author of this book recast some of its ideas into a short parable about an astronaut that commits suicide, which can be found in his collection Escape To Hell. This book argues for the abolition of money, and the first of its three volumes, The Solution of the Problem of Democracy, appeared in 1975 and outlines its formulator's “Third International Theory.” The Great Socialist People's Jamahiriya state was partly based on this book, written by its author after deposing King Idris I. For 10 points, name this work of political thought by Muammar Qaddafi.
The Green Book [or al-Kitab al-Ahdar]
9

145474-)
A villanelle by this writer describes its subject having “blown on a blue horn, full of sound and fury / but signifying, o signifying magnificently / the boredom, and the horror, and the glory.” Another poem by this author describes “the arches and entrances” of “seven houses” that have “learned to face one another” and “mastered the lesson of remaining closed.” That poem by this man mentions three clouds that are “not public like mountains' but private like companions'.” This author wrote poems about Robert Boardman Vaughan and a painting by “Patient B.” He imagined the title figures rediscovering “the face of the boy as he practices tying his father’s tie” in a poem centering on people who “learn to close softly, the doors to rooms they will not be coming back to.” For 10 points, name this New Formalist author of “Men at Forty,” who won the 1980 Pulitzer Prize for his Selected Poems.
Donald Justice
9

145488-)
In 2009, the Wooster Group put on an acclaimed staging of this play, in which the title character was portrayed in a genderbent fashion by Kate Valk who had “thick, oily, makeup covering her face.” The actor “Slim” Martin reported that the first actor to portray this play’s title character once told him “I created the role,” not the author. The second actor to play its title role memorized all of its lines in less than two weeks, and also simultaneously starred in another of its author’s plays about Jim Harris, who resolves to not take the bar exam after an argument with his wife Ella. This play’s title character was originally played by Charles Gilpin, but he dropped out and was replaced by Paul Robeson after an incident in which Gilpin used the word “coloreds” instead of the “n”-word. A Pullman porter who is supposedly impervious to everything but silver bullets is the title character of, for 10 points, what tragedy by Eugene O’Neill?
The Emperor Jones
9

145505-)
A text by this writer describes the “left hand path” where a dreadful “old woman sits on a toad-stool” and has “rattlesnakes” for hair instead of tresses. This author inserted himself into a work where he meets an Indian hunter who is so good at hunting bear meat that he’s able to test his theory as to whether a diet of bear meat makes men more virile. An Indian named Ned Bearskin is described in a text in which this author is surrounded by men of “hoggish temper” that he names Puzzlecause, Firebrand, and Shoebrush. This author styled himself “Steddy” in a text that provides more “scandalous” material than a similarly named 1728 non-fiction account, which describes William Dandridge and Richard Fitz-William, two fellow surveyors. For 10 points, name this founder of Richmond, who wrote a “secret” version of his History of the Dividing Line.
William Byrd II
9

145513-)
This character notes that Solomon had a “copulation cabinet of 700 wives and 300 concubines” when trying to prove that “man is a fool” but “woman is a damned fool.” During an “experiment in Morals and Conduct,” this character examines a microscope and observes a “large beast killing weaker animals.” This character and his two brothers stand next to their master’s ankle at the opening of a work largely comprised of this character’s eleven epistles. In a novel, this character’s nephew hides a wallet containing 1,107 ducats that Father Peter finds, but Father Peter is framed for robbing the town astrologer. This character, who narrates much of the book Letters to the Earth, has a younger counterpart of the same name who befriends Theodore, Nikolaus, and Seppi in the town of Eseldorf while using the sobriquet “No. 44.” For 10 points, give this name of Mark Twain’s The Mysterious Stranger.
Satan [prompt on the devil; prompt on “No.44” or “The Mysterious Stranger”]
9

145517-)
Creator and genre required. A biography by Gitta Honegger argues that these works were made by a "renegade" author who stole his country’s “cultural nobility.” In one of these works, Bruscon tortures his daughter and stages the drama The Wheel of History. Another of these works features dialogue claiming that a certain country is home to "six and a half million retards and maniacs," and centers on Professor Josef Schuster, who returns to his homeland and commits suicide since his country is "much worse than fifty years ago." One of these works was written for the 50th anniversary of the Anschluss, and is named for a "Heroes Square" where many of its citizens adopted a fascist ideology that disturbed the author of these works. These texts include The Histrionic and Heldenplatz, and in the will of their author, they were explicitly banned from being produced until their author’s copyright expired. For 10 points, identify these dramatic works that were written by the author of Frost and The Loser.
plays by Thomas Bernhard [prompt on plays]
9

145530-)
In one book, this writer states that he has "always envied people with a hometown", and that "Home is what you can take with you." Those thoughts appear in a chapter called “At Home in the Fields of the Lord” in which this writer discusses a Mormon sanctuary. In a letter to David Pesonen, this writer suggested that Twain's "Connecticut Yankee" was overly optimistic for sending candidates from "King Arthur's kingdom" to his own "Man Factory." That letter concludes with this writer's assertion that there is a need to create a place that is a "means of reassuring ourselves of our sanity as creatures, a part of the geography of hope," and appears in his book The Sound of Mountain Water. This author, whose books consider a certain location as "Living Space," may be best remembered for a novel about the retiring professor Lyman Ford. For 10 points, name this author known for his writings on the American West, the author of The Spectator Bird and Crossing to Safety.
Wallace Stegner
9

145545-)
In a work in this genre, a woman eats gothic novels and the "black and white pages" of newspapers as part of an attempt to learn more through "reading". In the essay "Unrecovered Losses", the creator of this genre uses it because, to her, a certain group has "conquered their environments, at least their pain" through "nonverbal activity". In another work in this genre, a woman describes being disqualified from a children's book reading contest because every one of her books was about Touissant L'ouverture. Several "night-life companions" mime out Layla's sexuality and race, in a text in this genre called Boogie Woogie Landscapes. Bobby and the Lady in Yellow have sex in the back of a car in "graduation nite," which is part of a cycle of twenty works in this genre that features the "lady in red" and the "lady in blue". Dance and lyric are intertwined in, for 10 points, what genre of works such as Ntozake Shange's for colored girls who have considered suicide when the rainbow is enuf?
Choreopoems [do not accept or prompt on “poems”]
9

145574-)
A character in this novel gives a speech citing Professor Enoch Mebane, stating that some people “strive for development” because they don’t have "billions" of monads in their brain. The final section of this novel, in which the narrator repeats “Surely I come quickly,” is titled “It Is Done…”. Its protagonist steals a copy of The Life and Death of Mr. Badman, and has a vision of a mysterious white temple. Samuel naively thinks this novel’s protagonist will get along well with Reverend Eppes, who instead tries to seduce him and talks about how attractive young boys are. Its protagonist has fantasies about Margaret Whitehead, whom he ends up being goaded into murdering by an unhinged character named Will. A man named Hark joins this novel’s protagonist in his “work of death,” which he recounts to the lawyer Thomas Gray. For 10 points, name this William Styron novel fictionalizing a slave rebellion.
The Confessions of Nat Turner
9

145592-)
One character in this play describes America as a slot machine that rejects your quarters; that character doubts that the missionaries at the Old Mission are real Christians since they drill holes in coffee cups to punish rule-breakers. The protagonist of this play keeps a football trophy belonging to his twin brother Raymond, who died in Vietnam. This play's first act ends with two characters singing "Hail! Hail! The gang's all here" after getting news that Hill District has been declared a "blight." The unseen Bernie Smith fronts money for a character to become part owner of the WBTZ in this play, which concludes with the protagonist tearing down Roosevelt Hicks's poster of Tiger Woods. For 10 points, name this play in which Harmond Wilkes's mayoral campaign is destroyed when he refuses to demolish Ester Tyler's old house at 1839 Wylie, the final play in the Pittsburgh Cycle.
Radio Golf
9

145600-)
A memoir by this writer describes how his teacher Mrs. K introduced him to the “brutal bargain” of social mobility, exemplified by the “longest journey” from “Brooklyn to Manhattan.” An essay by this writer discusses coming in second at a relay race, only for the opposing team trying to jump him and take their first-prize medallions after it was revealed that the opposing team had cheated. This author called the Cold War the Third World War in a 2007 book arguing that the current fight against “Islamofascism” constitutes World War IV. A 1963 essay by this author of the memoir Making It notes that a certain group was “tougher . . . and more ruthless” than the Jews and Italians in his Brooklyn neighborhood, and explains his hatred of black people. “My Negro Problem—and Ours” was written by, for 10 points, what neoconservative longtime editor of Commentary magazine?
Norman Podhoretz
9

145614-)
The man “of venerable robustness” who delivers this address enters carrying no umbrella from a gale and has “melting sleet” on his “tarpaulin hat.” This work’s speaker describes a group of men who offer speculations about a traveler, such as “Jack, he’s robbed a widow” and “Joe, do you mark him, he’s a bigamist.” The man who makes this presentation is described as “impregnable in his little Quebec” while standing in a bower that represents the “earth’s foremost part.” In this address, the speaker tells of a man who paid “thrice the usual sum” for passage since “sin that pays its way can travel freely”. After ascending a ladder and pulling it back up after him, this work’s speaker stands in a pulpit shaped like a ship’s prow to talk about Jonah. The Whaleman’s Chapel is the location of, for 10 points, what religious address listened to by Queequeg and Ishmael?
“Father Mapple’s Sermon” [prompt on sermon from Moby Dick; prompt on sermon]
9

145634-)
A character in this novel remembers a time when she fainted in front of The Birth of Venus when she passes out in her boss’s arms after he fires her. A short parody of this novel by Elizabeth Hardwick was published under the pseudonym Xavier Prynne. A woman in this novel is almost raped by the ski jumper Nils when she quotes from “The Shepherdess’s Reply” when he recites “The Passionate Shepherd to His Love.” After taking a woman’s virginity, a man in this novel remarks of his wife that “Betty bled like a pig.” Characters in this book include Lakey, who has a Lesbian affair with a baroness while studying art history in Europe, and Dottie Renfrew, who agrees to be fitted for a diaphragm. This novel ends with the funeral of Kay Strong, who dies after falling from a building at Vassar College. For 10 points, name this novel about a set of female university friends by Mary McCarthy.
The Group
9

145635-)
This book refers to Leo Tolstoy as "the ablest modern expounder of primitive Christliness." It poses the question "what is a mechanic anyhow, but a specially trained slave?" In a line later stolen for a 1969 book, this text proclaims "I gaze into the glassy eye of your fearsome Jehovah, and pluck him by the beard...split open his worm-eaten skull." The author of this pseudonymous text is probably New Zealand poet Arthur Desmond, although Jack London has been also proposed as a candidate. Much of this book was used by Anton LaVey in constructing The Satanic Bible, although he omitted much of its anti-Semitic and white supremacist passages. This book's ideology is summarized by its rewriting of the Sermon on the Mount to read "Blessed are the iron-handed" and "Blessed are the strong." For 10 points, name this book by Ragnar Redbeard which argues that only strength can establish what is truly moral.
Might is Right, or The Survival of the Fittest [accept The Satanic Bible until "1969"]
9

145648-)
A novel set in this town features a man boasting about having the "complete fucking set" of Batman comic books. Another novel that mostly takes place in this location opens with a collection of travelogue-esque scenarios featuring the protagonists touring the Rockies, Egypt, and China. In that novel, a resident of this location is killed by Christopher using a quantum theory device to transfer electrons. This is the home of Clyde Gabriel, who kills his wife Felicia after she begins to spit up feathers and other objects. Residents of this town include a ceramic maker, a cellist, and a gossip columnist, who become lovers of a mysterious new arrival. In this town, Darryl Van Horne seduces Alexandra, Jane, and Sukie, who end up killing Jenny Gabriel after giving her cancer through a spell. For 10 points, name this Rhode Island town created by John Updike, the setting of a novel about its witches.
Eastwick
9

145656-)
On Christmas Eve, this person’s mom calls him the “man of the house”, to which he says “I am not a man. I am a boy.” This student at the Brimmer school cons his friend Roger Crosby out of several wheelbarrows full of toy soldiers, but is forced to return them. This man sits mixing a “black pile” of earth and a “white pile” of lime at Char-de-sa farm in a scene describing his uncle’s death of Hodgkin’s disease. This character’s daughter rises “like the sun” “in her flame-flamingo infants’ wear” in a work in which he concludes “Cured, I am frizzled, stale and small.” He recounts his encounter with a “czar” of “Murder Incorporated” in a poem describing his time in jail for not registering for the draft. 91 Revere Street was the address of, for 10 points, what speaker of “Home After Three Months Away” and “Memories of West Street and Lepke”, two poems from Life Studies?
Robert Lowell [accept either underlined answer , or “Bob”]
9

145658-)
In this novel, a retired astronaut tells the protagonist that "Returning from the moon was not the same as going, played backwards.” Another character in this novel is only ever heard through a grate in a monastery. That character, Mr. Calkins, publishes a newspaper with wrong dates as well as the protagonist's poetry collection Brass Orchids. In this novel, Bobby Richards is pushed down an elevator shaft by his sister June after he threatens to tell their parents that she had sex. The black man who may have raped June, George Harrison, becomes identified with the second moon in this novel. This novel’s protagonist wears only one shoe, and along with his lovers Lanya and Denny, leads a gang called the Scorpions whose members disguise themselves with holograms of mythical beasts. For 10 points, name this novel about The Kid's time in the ruined city of Bellona, the masterpiece of Samuel Delany.
Dhalgren
9

145680-)
This character exclaims that “We are in the perpetual process now” of “creation, maturation, cessation” after learning that the local Chinese restaurant has closed. He is angered when he returns to his place of work and hears Chet Baker on the phonograph. This character orders his assistant to read The Birth of Tragedy, and learns that his assistant is a foster child whose mom and dad were murdered by two burglars in Kansas. He hopes to “ruin the appetite of every son of a bitch who eats there,” in describing a project that he ultimately abandons. He is afraid that the title entity will be “swallowed by black”. At the conclusion of the play, this character returns the $35,000 advance received with the help of the architect Philip Johnson, and fires his assistant Ken. Alfred Molina was the first to portray, for 10 points, what real-life artist who appears in John Logan’s play Red?
Mark Rothko [or Marcus Rothkowitz; accept either underlined name]
9

145691-)
This author’s friend Joseph Mitchell inherited his library after his death, and was disgusted to learn that he used strips of fried bacon as bookmarks. A memoir of Paris by this writer observes that having enough money on hand “for three days” is the “optimal financial situation” for the “serious apprentice eater”. This man claimed that some of the worst reporting of his time occurred during the coverage of Elizabeth Bentley in his book Of Mink and Red Herring. His later works include profiles of Huey Long’s brother. This author of the memoir Between Meals wrote a piece calling a man nicknamed Hurricane Jackson a “nanimal.” A comparison of Rocky Marciano to the whale Moby Dick appears in this author’s piece “Ahab and Nemesis”, one of his essays about a discipline of “bruising”. For 10 points, name this longtime editor of The New Yorker whose essays on boxing are found in The Sweet Science.
Abbot Joseph Liebling [or A. J. Liebling]
9

145696-)
A character in this novel responds to the Good Friday prohibition on plums by calling a god that would care about food “strange”, and claiming that her god is over the bed of Mrs. Samuel Boor. At novel’s opening, the narrator describes how “this book is not written for God” but rather for other people. This novel centers on a woman whose mother committed suicide after her twin siblings were killed by lightning. Its narrator believes that a woman stole all the furniture from a Jewish family before learning that she sheltered their baby Eva Grossman during the Holocaust. In this novel, a woman insists on naming a dog Viola even though the dog is male. This novel opens and closes with the narrator’s dream that she is unable to allow paramedics to save a patient, paralleling her attempts to save her housekeeper. For 10 points, name this novel about the mysterious Emerence, written by Magda Szabo (SAH-boh).
The Door [or Az ajtó]
9

145700-)
At one point this text describes the "urination of huge children [who] stood loosely military." The last of its four paragraphs begins by describing how "my mother, my father, my uncle, my aunt and I too lie there" before concluding that none of them will tell the narrator who he is. This work's author said he wrote it in 90 minutes as "a kind of parallel to improvisation in jazz." First published in the Partisan Review, it includes a passage describing how various water pressures in hoses tune them like violins before noting "there is never one locust but the illusion of at least a thousand." The narrator says he is "successfully disguised to himself as a child," before describing "that time of evening when people sit on their porches." It became the opening to a novel centering on the aftermath of Rufus Follett’s death. For 10 points, name this James Agee piece which was set to music by Samuel Barber.
Knoxville: Summer of 1915 [or Knoxville: Summer 1915]
9

145706-)
In one essay, this writer claimed that “shadow beasts” or “desconociementos,” such as numbness and anger, stalked her after the Twin Towers fell. That essay compares writing to healing a fragmented identity and is part of this writer’s directive named for a goddess who was beheaded. In her most famous book, this author imagines confronting an underworld goddess and licking her icy face as analogous to confronting herself using a mirror. This theorizer of the “Coyolxauhqui (KOH-yoll-SHOU-kwee) imperative”, may be best known for a book that code switches between English and Spanish, and discusses “The Coatlicue State” before concluding with the assertion “This land was Mexican once / was Indian always / and is. And will be again.” The “mestiza consciousness”, was introduced in Borderlands, a book by, for 10 points, what lesbian Chicana author?
Gloria Anzaldua [or Gloria Evangelina Anzaldúa]
9

145711-)
Sandie Byrne analyzed the poem “Suttee” as a rewriting of Southwell’s Christmas poem “The Burning Babe” with this figure in place of the Christ child. In a poem addressed to this figure, the 25 year-old speaker claims to be “dumbfounded afresh by [his] ignorance of the simplest things” after buying a peach outside Charing Cross station. This figure is “gold-jacketed, solid silver, nickel-tipped” in a poem in which the speaker notes that “your real target hid behind me.” This person, who is compared to a bullet in the poem “The Shot”, has a Veronica Lake bang in a poem that describes the author’s first glimpse of a picture of this woman and her fellow “Fulbright Scholars” at Cambridge. The poem “The Blue Flannel Suit” describes the clothes this woman wore on her first day back teaching at Smith College, her alma mater. For 10 points, name this addressee of Ted Hughes’ book Birthday Letters.
Sylvia Plath
9

145712-)
On Christmas, this saint had a conversion experience after her father said “Well, fortunately, this will be the last year!” in reference to a custom of placing presents inside her shoes. In 2015, this saint’s parents became the first married couple to be canonized together. This saint noted that rich people didn’t need to climb stairs because they had elevators, before observing that she was “too tiny to climb the steep staircase of perfection” while describing her doctrine known as the Little Way. This saint wrote that she believed she was hearing her own story when her father Louis explained the care with which God had nurtured the roots of a white flower. Her autobiography The Story of a Soul describes her development as a Discalced Carmelite nun. For 10 points, name this French woman, known as the Little Flower, a saint who hailed from the commune of Lisieux.
Thérèse of Lisieux [or Marie François-Thérèse Martin]
9

145718-)
Bethany Hicock claims this poem refigures the ideas of “female community” found in its author’s manifesto Con Spirito. This poem’s speaker claims that the "smallest" of his industries was a "miserable philosophy". After playing a musical instrument, this poem’s speaker parenthetically remarks "(I think it had the weirdest scale on earth.)" The speaker of this poem asks "Why didn't I know enough of something? / Greek drama or astronomy" since the pages he was reading "were full of blanks." At this poem’s conclusion, a museum asks for "the flute, the knife, [and] the shriveled shoes" that belonged to the speaker. This poem ends with a character dying of measles, and is spoken by a character who christens a volcano Mont d'Espoir or Mount Despair. The collection Geography III contains, for 10 points, what Elizabeth Bishop poem that depicts a Daniel Defoe character reminiscing about his "poor island"?
"Crusoe in England"
9

145730-)
A book co-written by Mark Costello is titled for a track that samples Led Zeppelin’s “Kashmir” and is presented as a contest between “badass pimp,” a “big bad faggot,” and a “rapper” who is doing this action. In a series of jazz songs, a character named for performing this action relays to a lion words supposedly said by an elephant. This action is subsumed by the four “master tropes” of “metaphor, metonymy, synecdoche, and irony” in a book in which the concluding ‘G’ in this action’s name is typically placed in parentheses. Schoolly D performed a track titled for this action, which titles an early David Foster Wallace book on rap. A book claims that Ishmael Reed, Ralph Ellison, and Richard Wright’s interpretations of their intellectual forebears constitutes this action. Henry Louis Gates wrote a book titled for a trickster “monkey” that performed, for 10 points, what action of ritual insult and wordplay?
signifyin’ [or signifying; accept The Signifying Rapper or The Signifying Monkey]
9

145771-)
Frank Lentricchia contrasts the subjects of this poem with the more “ominous”, “irresponsive” subjects of the first stanza of its author's poem “Into My Own”. Some editions of this poem include the parenthetical question “Now am I free to be poetical?” after describing how “Truth broke in / with all her matter-of-fact”. This poem describes a situation where “you'd think the inner dome of heaven had fallen” and compares its subjects to “girls on hands and knees that throw their (*) hair / before them over their heads”. This poem asserts that “Earth's the right place for love” while describing a desire to “get away from Earth awhile / then come back to it again”, an activity the speaker compares to climbing “black branches up a snow-white trunk / Toward heaven”. For 10 points, name this Robert Frost poem that claims that “one could do worse than be a swinger of” the title trees.
“Birches” &lt;Carson&gt;
6

145775-)
. This man met a boy prostitute who may have inspired him to write a lost gay novel that provides the subject matter of Edmund White's novel Hotel de Dream. This author of the lost manuscript Flowers of Asphalt tackled similarly gritty subject matter in an account of Bowery life entitled George's Mother, which contains some of the same characters as his first book, in which the title character is followed to the edge of the river by a man whose body quivers like a “dead jelly fish”. In that novella by this author, a bartender named Pete dates the title character, who eventually becomes a (*) prostitute. This author created Scratchy Wilson, who decides not to shoot a Texas marshal named Jack Potter after seeing Potter's new wife, in his story “The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky”. For 10 points, name this author of Maggie: A Girl of the Streets who created Henry Fleming in The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane &lt;Hart&gt; Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament 2016: A Vat of Ranch Dressing or a Bullet to the Head Questions by Sam Bailey, Rob Carson, Mike Cheyne, Akhil Garg, Carsten Gehring, Andrew Hart, Ike Jose, Shan Kothari, Cody Voight, Najwa Watson, and NOT Cory Haala Packet 1: Bonuses
6

145779-)
The twentieth anniversary of this man's death provided the occasion for a 2007 “letter to” him written by Congolese author Alain Mabanckou (ma-bahn-KOO). Editor Christopher Jackson suggested that a contemporary writer adopt the “cold” tone of this man, who was free of “sentiment and melodrama”, resulting in a work that discusses “a country lost in the Dream”. This man wrote that his “gimmick” was, “by an unforeseeable paradox”, his entry into the Christian church, in an essay that examines his eventual disillusionment with religion entitled (*) “Down at the Cross”. This man collected that essay along with “My Dungeon Shook” in a book that inspired Ta-Nehisi Coates's Between the World and Me. The Fire Next Time is by, for 10 points, what African-American author who created John Grimes in his novel Go Tell it on the Mountain?
James Baldwin [or James Arthur Baldwin] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145812-)
While on a car ride, this character sees the “portentous menacing road of a new decade” stretching before him, and considers “a thinning list of single men to know, a thinning briefcase of enthusiasm, thinning hair”, upon realizing that it is his 30th birthday. After this man's friend dies, he attempts to visit his friend's mentor at the Swastika Holding Company. This man recalls that, during Christmas break from his prep school, he would take the train home from the east coast to Minnesota, prompting him to realize that he and his companions were “all (*) Westerners”. This character, who moves to New York to sell bonds and dates a dishonest champion golfer named Jordan Baker, says that his friend “believed in the green light, the orgastic future that year by year recedes before us”. For 10 points, name this narrator of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby.
Nick Carraway [accept either underlined name] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145821-)
In one work by this man, the protagonist's father's narrative is interrupted by a stop at a Shop-Rite and the protagonist's wife stopping to pick up a black hitchhiker, who is called a “schwarzer”. This husband of New Yorker arts editor Françoise Mouly appears wearing his signature brown vest and a white dress shirt in Portrait of the Artist as a Young %@&amp;*! (“blankity-blank”), which was collected in his book Breakdowns. This man, who worked with R. Crumb on the magazine Arcade, described the suicide of his mother, Anja, who slit her wrists in a bathtub, in a work that was the (*) first of its kind to win a Pulitzer Prize. In that work by this man, he discusses engaging in a dialogue with his father, Vladek, to gather material for a serialized work that depicts the Nazis as cats. For 10 points, name this author and illustrator who wrote the graphic novel Maus.
Art Spiegelman [or Itzhak Avraham ben Zeev] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145827-)
In one section of this poem, the speaker remembers sweating “through fog / with linguists and contenders” after noting that he is presently surrounded by “trippers and askers”. Another section of this poem begins by describing a “pure contralto” who “sings in the organ loft” and proceeds to list dozens of people and what they are presently doing. This poem's speaker says that “it is as great to be a woman as to be a man” after proclaiming that he is “the poet of the woman the same as the man”. In this poem, a child's question of “what is the (*) grass?” prompts the speaker to define it as “the beautiful uncut hair of graves”. In the 52nd and final section of this poem, the speaker sounds his “barbaric yawp” and states that he “stop[s] somewhere waiting for you”. For 10 points, name this long poem by Walt Whitman that begins “I celebrate myself, and sing myself”.
Song of Myself &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145844-)
The plot of one of this author's plays is set in motion when several slips of paper bearing quotations from Swinburne's “Anactoria” are found in the underwear drawer of Muriel McComber. A play by this man in which a house in Bethany becomes known as the House of Laughter was one of his attempts to revive the dramatic use of masks, as was a play whose title character poses as Margaret's husband after literally putting on the mask of the artist Dion Anthony. Another of this man's plays ends with a character kneeling and praying with her wedding dress in her hands while under the effects of a (*) morphine addiction begun by the difficult birth of her son Edmund. This author, whose only successful comedy was Ah, Wilderness!, used his own father as the basis for the typecast stage actor James Tyrone. For 10 points, name this American dramatist of The Great God Brown and Long Day's Journey Into Night.
Eugene O'Neill [or Eugene Gladstone O'Neill] &lt;Carson&gt;
6

145875-)
A poem about this man describes him as “A bright soul driven, / fiend-goaded, down the endless dark” and notes that “When faith is lost, when honor dies, / the man is dead!” According to another author, this man owns a fishing rod named “Killall” and a pair of horses named Constellation and Constitution. In that story, this man is summoned from Marshfield to Cross Corners, where he gives a speech beginning with “the simple things that everybody's known and felt” that ends by describing “the endless journey of mankind”. John Greenleaf Whittier's (*) “Ichabod” is about this man, who is also the namesake of a character who is fed several pounds of quail-shot by a stranger, causing Jim Smiley to lose a contest. For 10 points, name this American politician, the namesake of the “Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County”, who defends Jabez Stone in a Stephen Vincent Benet story that pits him against the devil.
Daniel Webster [accept either underlined portion; or Dan'l Webster] &lt;Carson&gt;
6

145905-)
A 2002 biography of this poet by Alfred Habegger, which is titled for the line “My Wars Are Laid Away in Books”, describes how this author became estranged from Susan Gilbert and wrote a series of letters addressed to “Master”, which may have been intended for a minister named Charles Wadsworth. At the end of a poem titled for a place where “meek members of the Resurrection” sleep, this poet wrote that “diadems drop, and Doges surrender, soundless as dots on a disk of snow”. This author of (*) “Safe in their Alabaster Chambers” compared the “heft of cathedral tunes” to a “certain slant of light” that appears on winter afternoons. A house that “seemed a swelling of the ground” appears in a poem by this author in which a carriage “held but just ourselves and immortality”. For 10 points, name this “Belle of Amherst” who wrote “Because I Could Not Stop for Death”.
Emily Dickinson &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145948-)
After this character moves into a condo in Florida, he suffers his first heart attack after a rented Sunfish sailboat capsizes and his granddaughter, Judy, is feared drowned. In a 2000 novella, this man is “remembered” by his illegitimate daughter Annabelle. During the gas crisis of the 1970s, this man becomes wealthy when his wife's family's Toyota dealership becomes wildly profitable. In this character's first appearance, he decides to (*) abandon his wife and infant daughter for a life on the road, but gets lost and instead opts to have dinner with Marty Tothero, his former coach. Janice, the wife of this MagiPeeler salesman, accidentally drowns their daughter Rebecca June in a bathtub. For 10 points, name this former high school basketball star who appears in a series of novels titled for him “at rest”, “rich”, “redux”, and “run”, all of which are by John Updike.
Rabbit Angstrom [or Harry Angstrom; accept any underlined name] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145980-)
The patriarch of this family meets a black nurse named Grace after falling ill on a cotton farm in Virginia in a 2005 novel by Geraldine Brooks that imagines the wartime experiences of this family's patriarch. Members of this family celebrate the 60th birthday of their matriarch after one of its members dies of a disease caught while treating the Hummel children. Another member of this family has twins named Demi and Daisy after marrying John Brooke. An 1871 novel centers on Nat Blake, an orphan who arrives at the (*) Plumfield school run by a member of this family who has married Professor Fritz Bhaer. After Beth dies of scarlet fever, the youngest member of this family marries Theodore Laurence, who is called Laurie. Meg, Amy, and Jo are members of, for 10 points, what family, central to Louisa May Alcott's novel Little Women?
March family [accept Marches; do not accept or prompt on “Brooke” or “Bhaer”] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

146000-)
Scholars consider the first truly “American” work of this type to be Thomas Godfrey's The Prince of Parthia, which was first published in 1765, although a Robert Hunter work of this type, Androboros, was published 50 years earlier. Works of this type entitled Andre and The Italian Father were written by William Dunlap, the “father” of this genre in the U.S. In the Revolutionary War era, comedic works in this form lampooning the colonial government entitled The Group and The Blockheads were written by Mercy Otis Warren. The “Yankee” character Jonathan appeared in a 1787 work of this type entitled The (*) Contrast by Royall Tyler. Anna Cora Mowatt's Fashion and Dion Boucicault's The Octoroon were among the most popular works in this form in 19th century America. David Belasco also wrote many popular works of, for 10 points, what type, which were often produced at New York's Park Theatre?
plays [or dramas or dramatic works; accept tragedy or tragedies before “Italian”; do not accept or prompt on other more specific answers such as “comedies”] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

146025-)
Langston Hughes wrote that “perhaps / you will remember” this man in a poem claiming he “died / for your sake” titled in part for “October 16”. This man's son Owen is contacted by Miss Mayo, an assistant to this man's real-life biographer Oswald Garrison Villard, in Russell Banks's historical novel Cloudsplitter. This man is called “weird” in Herman Melville's short poem “The Portent”, which called this man “the meteor of the war”. This man's soul is “marching on” while his (*) corpse “lies a-mouldering in the grave” in a song whose tune was reused for “The Battle Hymn of the Republic”. That song, which inspired the title of an epic poem about the Civil War by Stephen Vincent Benet, is titled for this man's “body”. For 10 points, name this radical abolitionist who carried out a raid on a federal arsenal at Harpers Ferry.
John Brown [accept John Brown's Body; accept “October 16: The Raid” before “this man” is read] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

146048-)
This poet wrote of “attendant Byzantines” coming with a “noise like tambourines” in a poem in which the “basses of [the] beings” of “red-eyed elders” throbs with “witching chords” and their “thin blood / pulse pizzicati of Hosanna”. “This poet described a “listener” who is “nothing himself” and thus “beholds / nothing that is not there and the nothing that is” in a poem that begins “one must have a mind of winter”. This man analogized the “beauty of inflections” and the “beauty of innuendos” to the sound of (*) “whistling / or just after” in a poem that begins by describing “twenty snowy mountains” among which “the only moving thing” is the eye of the title creature. This author's poems include “The Snow Man” and “Peter Quince at the Clavier”. For 10 points, name this poet whose collection Harmonium contains “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird”.
Wallace Stevens
6

146059-)
A character in this novel uses a treatment mandated by Dr. Bencomb as an excuse not to attend a party hosted by the unfashionable Professor Emerson Sillerton. In the opening scene of this novel, Christine Nilsson is performing in Gounod’s Faust. Its protagonist’s mother begs the Van der Luydens to invite another character to a party on behalf of the Duke of St. Austrey. A climactic point in this novel is when the failure of Julius Beaufort’s bank causes the obese society matron Mrs. (*) Manson Mingott to have a stroke. It ends with the protagonist taking a trip to Paris with his son Dallas, where he refuses to see his former lover. Its protagonist marries May Welland despite his lifelong love for Ellen Olenska. For 10 points, name this Edith Wharton novel about Newland Archer.
The Age of Innocence
6

146069-)
. The title character of a story by this author grinds his large teeth on several occasions, including when his employer forces him to drink several flagons of wine and when that man shoves his girlfriend Trippetta to the ground. Two of this author’s stories were written to spite his rivals Elizabeth F. Ellet, who embroiled him in scandal, and Thomas Dunn English. He wrote a story about a dwarf who tricks a king and his councilors into dressing as (*) orangutans, then burns them to death. Another of his stories features a character whose family coat of arms reads “Nemo me impune lacessit”. In that story, the expertise of Luchesi is mocked by a man who gets drunk, then shackled and bricked up in a cellar alcove, by Montresor. For 10 points, name this American author of “Hop-Frog” and “The Cask of Amontillado”.
Edgar Allan Poe
6

146077-)
A character in this play has a recurring nightmare in which he kills the same man over and over. An important location in this play has a portico described as an “incongruous white mask”. Various characters in this play imagine either sexless children or sexual natives inhabiting the Blessed Islands. In the first scene of this play, a character is theorized to be the son of Marie Brantôme by the gardener Seth Beckwith. Characters including Everett Hills, Josiah Bordon, and Amos Ames form a sort of (*) Greek chorus in this play, which is divided into three parts titled Homecoming, The Hunted, and The Haunted. It centers on Christine and Captain Brant’s murder of Ezra, which is then avenged by Lavinia and Orin. For 10 points, name this adaptation of the Oresteia about the Mannon family, a play cycle by Eugene O’Neill.
Mourning Becomes Electra
6

146106-)
A character in this novel deliberately makes the protagonist jealous by referring to the charms of Wallace Trone and a “peach of a boy” named Charlie. In the final chapter of this novel, Reverend Duncan MacMillan finds himself unable to lie to Governor David Waltham. This novel’s protagonist withholds money from his pregnant sister Esta in order to buy a jacket for Hortense Briggs. After fleeing from a car accident caused by Willard Sparser, the protagonist of this novel contacts his uncle Samuel, who gets him a job in (*) Lycurgus, New York. A climactic event in this novel takes place on Big Bittern Lake, where the protagonist’s desire to marry Sondra Finchley leads him to kill his girlfriend Roberta Alden. For 10 points, name this novel about Clyde Griffiths, written by Theodore Dreiser.
An American Tragedy
6

146117-)
A poem by this author includes the image of “gamins, pursuing the scientist down the tiled colonnade” after describing a poet’s unease at those who “doubt his antimythological myth”. The speaker of that poem by this man tries to imagine “a faultless love or the life to come”, which causes him to hear “the murmur of underground streams”. Another of his poems ends a list with “My noon, my midnight, my talk, my song” before the speaker laments “I thought that (*) love would last forever; I was wrong”. He concluded that “we must love one another or die” in a poem set “in one of the dives on Fifty-second Street” on the eve of World War II, and opened another with the line “Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone.”. For 10 points, name this poet of “In Praise of Limestone”, “Funeral Blues”, and “September 1, 1939”.
W.H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]
6

146126-)
This poem’s subject was described as “the determining focus of relation” by Helen Vendler. The third section of this poem refers to an event as “a small part of the pantomime”, while a later section describes icicles filling a window with “barbaric glass” and “the mood” tracing “in the shadow / an indecipherable cause”. The speaker of this poem can’t decide whether to prefer “the beauty of (*) inflections or the beauty of innuendoes”, and claims to know “noble accents / and lucid, inescapable rhythms”. Its seventh section mentions the “thin men of Haddam”, while its fourth section notes that “a man and a woman and” the title creature “are one”. For 10 points, name this Wallace Stevens poem about various perspectives on a certain avian.
“Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird”
6

146134-)
A parody of this poem in which its title character struggles to photograph a family was written by Lewis Carroll. A heron gives a “scream of pain and famine” at the end of a three-day wrestling match in this poem. A character in this poem is chided for being lazy despite feats like flinging trees through the sky and killing the King of Beavers. The title character of this poem befriends a musician and a strongman named, respectively, Chibiabos and Kwasind. It was based in part on the sloppy research of Henry (*) Rowe Schoolcraft and uses the trochaic tetrameter of the Kalevala. A famous passage from this poem describes a place “by the shores of Gitchee Gumee, by the shining Big-Sea-Water”. A grandson of Nokomis who loves Minnehaha is the title character of, for 10 points, which epic poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow?
The Song of Hiawatha
6

146168-)
A character in this novel chooses to sleep in an attic bed with a shard of mirror hidden under the mattress. Another of its characters makes a wedding dress out of scraps after receiving a letter written in shoe polish. At the end of this novel, a character suggests that “the Jim Bonds are going to conquer the western hemisphere” before posing a question that elicits the repeated answer “I don’t hate it”. An affair with 15-year-old Milly results in the death of this novel’s protagonist, years after his son Henry murders his other son (*) Charles Bon at the gates of his hundred-acre estate. This novel’s frame narratives include one involving the Harvard student Shreve and one in which Rosa Coldfield reminisces to Quentin Compson. For 10 points, name this Biblically-titled novel about Thomas Sutpen, a work of William Faulkner.
Absalom, Absalom!
6

146176-)
This author claimed that “thou didst love the pen / While others wrote in steel” in a poem addressed to Jean Froissart called “Thou in Whose Sword-Great Story Shine the Deeds”. Another of his poems is about a group who would “rather black the boots of / success than enquire whose soul dangles from his / watch-chain”, and who is “forever making poems in the lap of death”. He wrote a poem whose speaker notes “i do not know what it is about you that (*) closes and opens”; that poem ends with the line “nobody, not even the rain, has such small hands”. Another of his poems rhymes its title with the parenthetical “with up so floating many bells down”. For 10 points, name this author of “Humanity i love you” and “anyone lived in a pretty how town”, an American poet known for his unusual orthography and typography.
e e cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings]
6

146209-)
The protagonist of Alan Hollinghurst’s The Line of Beauty attempts to finance a film production of a novel by this author in which mother and son Adela and Owen Gereth both attempt to engage Fleda Vetch to secure the future of the title collection of antiques. Another of his novels includes a scene in Gloriani’s garden in which the protagonist delivers a speech including the line “Live all you can, it’s a mistake not to” to Little (*) Bilham. A romantic interest in Marie de Vionnet complicates a mission to Paris to “rescue” Chad Newsome undertaken by Lambert Strether in that novel by this man. The New York Editions of his works excluded much of his early fiction, including The Europeans. For 10 points, name this author of The Spoils of Poynton and The Ambassadors, as well as The Portrait of a Lady.
Henry James
6

146220-)
In this city, the protagonist of a novel gets a job in a factory that makes “O-Daddy, the condom of tomorrow” and works as the virgin-deflowering “Big Stingaree” before being beaten nearly to death by the legless Achilles Schmidt. In another novel, this city is where Walter Wade is dumped by Kate Cutrer, who joins the protagonist on a trip to Chicago. Dove Linkhorn moves from Texas to this city in Nelson Algren’s A Walk on the Wild Side, while (*) Binx Bolling leaves it in Walker Percy’s The Moviegoer. The muscatel-loving Irene falls in love with Claude Robichaux in a novel set in this city whose protagonist corresponds with Myrna Minkoff, works at the Levy Pants factory, adores Boethius, and is named Ignatius J. Reilly. For 10 points, John Kennedy Toole’s A Confederacy of Dunces is set in what Gulf Coast city?
New Orleans, Louisiana
6

146248-)
Jean Stafford’s story “The Interior Castle” was inspired by a car accident involving this author, Stafford’s husband at the time. He asked “will your sword / whistle and fall and sink into the fat?” in a poem addressed to his cousin Warren Winslow. That poem by this author contains a section titled “Our Lady of Walsingham” and describes “the end of the whaleroad and the whale” in a place “where the (*) bones cry out in the long night”. The line “a savage servility slides by on grease” ends a poem by this man that begins with the image of “a Sahara of snow” surrounding “the old South Boston Aquarium”. In that poem, he wrote of the “angry wrenlike vigilance” of Col. Shaw in St. Gaudens’s monument. For 10 points, name this American poet of “The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket” and “For the Union Dead”.
Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV]
6

146261-)
At an impromptu dinner in this novel, the butler Hamilton kicks the protagonist out of a house after the rich, drunk Freddie Jones gives him a hundred-dollar bill. Another character in this novel steals a little bit too much beer, falls asleep in a corner, and gets locked in a building; in the morning, it is discovered that he was eaten by rats. This novel’s protagonist meets Jack Duane in jail and gets a job in Mike (*) Scully’s organization after the death of his son Antanas, but loses it when he attacks Phil Connor, who had earlier raped his wife Ona. This novel was originally serialized in Appeal to Reason, a socialist newspaper. For 10 points, name this novel about Jurgis Rudkus, an expose of the meatpacking industry by Upton Sinclair.
The Jungle
6

146297-)
In one of this author’s plays, the maid Addie condemns many of the main characters as “eaters of the earth”. Another play by this author opens with Peggy Rogers reading Shakespeare’s “quality of mercy” speech shortly before another character lies about the origin of some flowers. Accusations that this author ripped off Muriel Gardiner’s life for the section “Julia” of her memoir Pentimento led to her feud with Mary (*) McCarthy. Horace’s sudden death allows Leo’s theft of railroad bonds to be used as blackmail by Regina Hubbard Giddens in a play by this woman. In another of her plays, Mary Tilford falsely accuses her teachers Karen Wright and Martha Dobie of having a lesbian affair. For 10 points, name this author of The Little Foxes and The Children’s Hour.
Lillian Hellman [or Lillian Florence Hellman; or Lilly Hellman]
6

146317-)
This author wrote two responses to Beckett’s Waiting for Godot, the postapocalyptic What Use Are Flowers? and the parodic The Arrival of Mr. Todog. Gloria commits suicide after being dumped by Alton Scales in a play by this author whose title character, a Greenwich Village writer, becomes disillusioned by the corrupt politician Wally O’Hara. One of this author’s characters drunkenly imagines stabbing people with a flaming spear while another shouts (*) “OCOMOGOSIAY!” The protagonist debates whether to accept an offer from Karl Lindner in a play by this author in which George Murchison and Joseph Asagai both court Beneatha. For 10 points, name this author of The Sign in Sidney Brustein’s Window who wrote about the deferred dreams of the Younger family in A Raisin in the Sun.
Lorraine Hansberry [or Lorraine Vivian Hansberry]
6

146358-)
In one of this man’s novels, Julius Karp’s liquor store is burned down by a thug named Ward Minogue. The protagonist of another of his novels refuses the advances of Zinaida Nikolaevna, the daughter of a man who he’d rescued from freezing to death despite his Black Hundreds pin. Max Mercy investigates a character created by this author who weighs the affections of Iris Lemon and Memo Paris and is (*) shot by Harriet Bird. Frank Alpine works for the shopkeeper Morris Bober in a novel by this man, who used the Beilis blood libel trial as the basis for his novel about Yakov Bok. This author of The Assistant and The Fixer wrote a novel in which the New York Knights sign Roy Hobbs, who uses the bat “Wonderboy”. For 10 points, name this Jewish author of The Natural.
Bernard Malamud
6

146367-)
This man made the most recent complete English translation of the Book of Odes, a.k.a. the Classic of Poetry. Throughout his life, this poet translated works by Guido Cavalcanti and Confucius. In a “translation” by him, the speaker married “My Lord you” at fourteen, when her hair was “still cut straight across [her] forehead.” This “translator” of “The River (*) Merchant’s Wife” described the desire to “resuscitate the dead art of poetry” in “Hugh Selwyn Mauberley.” He exhorted “Make it new!” and described “petals on a wet black bough” in a two-line Imagist poem. For 10 points, name this Fascist American poet who wrote “In a Station of the Metro” and The Cantos.
Ezra (Weston Loomis) Pound &lt;JR&gt;
3

146387-)
In the stage directions of a play by this author, a main character is described as having the “power and pride of a richly feathered male bird among hens.” Another play by this man starts with a former track star injuring his ankle; that character created by this author drinks until he hears a “click.” Later in that play by this author, “Mendacity” is discussed by (*) Big Daddy and Brick. A character in another play by this man is involved with the poker player Mitch and loses the estate Belle Rêve. In that play by this man, Stella and Stanley Kowalski are visited by Blanche Dubois. For 10 points, name this American author of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams] &lt;LL&gt;
3

146394-)
A short story by this author is interrupted by sounds like a car crash, a twenty-one gun salute, and “somebody hitting a milk bottle with a ball peen hammer.” The protagonist of that short story by this author selects a ballerina to be his “empress,” and is shot by Diana Moon Glampers, the Handicapper General, in an effort to make everyone equal. In a novel by this author of (*) “Harrison Bergeron,” the protagonist is mated with Montana Wildhack by Tralfamadorian aliens. In that novel of his, Billy Pilgrim becomes “unstuck in time” during World War Two and survives the firebombing of Dresden. For 10 points, name this author of Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. &lt;JR&gt;
3

146421-)
In a play by this author, Grandma is taken by an angel of death after being abandoned in a sandbox. In another play by this author, a character owns two cats and two parrots, and another character later reveals that he tried to kill his landlady’s dog with rat poison. That play by this author ends with (*) Jerry killing himself in front of Peter. In an act this author titled “The Exorcism,” one of his characters kills his imaginary son with a car accident. In that play by this man, the couple Nick and Honey play games like “Get the Guests” and “Bringing up Baby” with George and Martha. For 10 points, name this author of The Zoo Story and Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee &lt;LL&gt;
3

146442-)
A character in this play is described as having “murder in her eyes” after seeing her husband give her son fifty cents. Act 2 of this play begins with some Nigerian music being played by a woman who then shows off her new Afro. Lena’s husband dies before the start of this play, but over half of his estate is scammed away by Willy. George Murchison and Joseph (*) Asagai court Beneatha in this play, in which Karl Lindner tries to get Ruth and Walter not to spend an insurance check on a house in a white neighborhood of Chicago. A line from “A Dream Deferred” titles—for 10 points—what 1959 play about the Younger family, by Lorraine Hansberry?
A Raisin in the Sun &lt;LL&gt;
3

146460-)
This place names the 24-volume collected works edition that Henry James put out from 1907 to 1909. In this city, the fall of Julius Beaufort induces a stroke in the obese matron Mrs. Manson Mingott. Morris Townsend backs out of marriage in this city when he finds out that Catherine Sloper would renounce her inheritance for him. This city’s society is exemplified by May Welland, in contrast to the (*) Polish Countess Ellen Olenska, who is loved by Newland Archer. This city is the setting of Henry James’s Washington Square and Edith Wharton’s The Age of Innocence. For 10 points, name this city where Bartleby the scrivener works on Wall Street.
New York, New York [or NYC; accept Manhattan] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146487-)
Description acceptable. This man “lived so long” and will “listen while you read a Song” in an “Homage” by John Berryman. In another poem, this man is prized “more than whole mines of gold, or all the riches that the East doth hold,” and is told to “persevere,” so that “when we live no more we may live ever.” This man owned a house that prompted the line “my (*) hope and treasure lies above.” A poet declared of this man that “if ever two were one, then surely we.” His house burning down is described a poem from The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America. For 10 points, name this “dear and loving” man who was the husband of an early American poet.
Anne Bradstreet’s husband [or Simon Bradstreet; prompt on partial answer; after “husband of,” you can accept just Bradstreet] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146492-)
A literary “Renaissance” in this city included poets like Jack Spicer and Kenneth Rexroth. It was the site of a 1955 poetry reading at Gallery Six. While living in this city, a poet wrote “I Am Waiting,” “In Goya’s greatest scenes we seem to see,” and the other poems in A Coney Island of the Mind. This city is home to the City (*) Lights Bookstore founded by Lawrence Ferlinghetti. It was the site of the first performance of a poem including lines like “Moloch,” “I’m with you in Rockland,” and “I saw the best minds of my generation…” Allen Ginsberg wrote “Howl” in this city. For 10 points, name this center of the Beat Generation and likely setting of “A Supermarket In California.”
San Francisco, California [accept Berkeley, California; accept S.F. or San Fran] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146529-)
Before heading to one of these locations, a genius boy prophesies to Nicholson that he will be killed there, in J.D. Salinger’s story “Teddy.” An air mattress is dragged out to one of these locations by a man who had just been told “They’re a rotten crowd. You’re worth the whole damn bunch put together.” The protagonist of a short story jokingly names these locations after his wife Lucinda after leaving a drunken party at the (*) Westerhazys’. Neddy Merrill traverses suburbia via these locations in a story by John Cheever. George Wilson avenges his wife Myrtle at one of these locations. For 10 points, where is Jay Gatsby’s body found?
swimming pools [prompt on houses, mansions or backyards] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146535-)
This novel’s protagonist fulfils a drunk woman’s fantasy by using lipstick to write “Sybil, you were raped by Santa Claus: Surprise” on her stomach. This novel’s protagonist hears a speech about the “vision” of a college’s Founder from Reverend Barbee, who turns out to be blind. Its protagonist mixes in ten black drops to make the purest “Optic (*) White.” This novel’s protagonist meets the Sambo-Doll seller Brother Clifton and works for Liberty Paints. This novel ends after Ras the Destroyer sparks a race riot, and it begins with its narrator forced into a “Battle Royale.” For 10 points, name this novel by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [do not accept or prompt on “The Invisible Man”] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146567-)
The majority of this man’s books were written in anapestic tetrameter. A character created by this author pays 15 cents, a nail, and a snail shell to hear a story about the title character. Another of his characters becomes known as “King of the Mud” (*) after being offended by the moon. Another book by this man describes creatures that have “a little star” and “a little car.” This man used fewer than 250 words in a book that begins “The sun did not shine.” This man’s characters include an environmentalist who protests against “thneeds,” as well as “Thing 1” and “Thing 2.” For 10 points, name this author of The Lorax and The Cat in the Hat.
Dr. Seuss [or Theodore Seuss Geisel] &lt;BY/JR&gt;
3

146568-)
Near the end of this play, three male characters unconsciously raise their glasses at the same time. Characters in this play covers up their family members’ drinking by adding water to a decanter of whiskey. The patriarch of a family in this play is an actor famous for only one role, whose wife showed promise as a pianist and once lived in a Catholic convent. That character from this play believes her son purposefully infected (*) Eugene with measles. In this play, Edmund is diagnosed with tuberculosis, and his mother Mary is addicted to morphine. For 10 points, name this play about the Tyrone family, a late work by Eugene O’Neill.
Long Day’s Journey Into Night &lt;LL&gt;
3

146576-)
A character in this man’s first novel finds the remains of a Jesuit’s attempts to convert rats to Catholicism while hunting alligators. That first novel by this man is about eternal Schlemil Benny Profane, who works for Yoyodyne. In a novella by this man the Peter Pinguid Society is part of the W.A.S.T.E postal network, which is found out actually to be part of Pierce Inverarity’s (*) “Tristero” conspiracy by Oedipa Maas. His most famous novel depicts the search for a Schwarzgerat V2 rocket and the effects of Imipolex G on Tyrone Slothrop, and begins “A screaming came across the sky.” For 10 points, name this reclusive author of V., The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity’s Rainbow.
Thomas (Ruggles) Pynchon &lt;IKD&gt;
3

146584-)
A boy “looks and looks” at this object, which is told to “run” in a “Ballad” that repeats its name twice. This object “drops anchor” in the eleventh of Neruda’s Twenty Love Poems, and it names the first of Lorca’s Gypsy Ballads. After moving his head to see this object, the speaker of an 8th-century, four-line poem lowers his head and gets homesick. An effect of this object is mistaken for (*) frost in a poem often translated as “Quiet Night Thought.” This object is invited by a “raised cup” that begins “among flowers.” Li Po wrote about drinking alone by the light of—for 10 points, what celestial body?
the Moon [or Luna; accept moonlight; accept half-moon] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146598-)
A novel by this author features communal singing of songs like “This May Be My Last Time,” “Standing in the Need of Prayer,” and “Somebody Needs You, Lord.” In that novel by this author, after Roy is stabbed, he’s beaten with a belt for telling his father Gabriel not to slap his mother. A “Letter to my Nephew” by this author inspired Between the World and Me by Ta-Nehisi Coates. One of his protagonists speaks in tongues on the “Threshing Floor” of the Temple of Fire Baptized Church on his fourteenth birthday, and is named John (*) Grimes. For 10 points, name this black American author of The Fire Next Time and Go Tell it On the Mountain.
James (Arthur) Baldwin &lt;JR&gt;
3

146623-)
This state is the setting of a book whose last chapter begins by describing a “deep green pool” where the “periscope head” of a water snake twists from side to side. In this state, a man has a vision of his Aunt Clara, and his friend is comforted by Slim. A man who always wears a glove full of vaseline runs a farm in this state where (*) Carlson shoots Candy’s dog. Two men entertain dreams of tending rabbits and “livin’ off the fatta the land” while working in this state. After Curley’s wife is killed in this state, George is forced to shoot the mentally handicapped man Lennie. For 10 points, name this state that’s the setting of Of Mice and Men and other books by John Steinbeck.
California &lt;JR&gt;
3

146636-)
This poet usually alternated between iambic tetrameter and iambic trimeter [“TRIH-muh-tur”], writing quatrains in so-called “common” meter. This poet, whose works were heavily edited by Thomas Wentworth Higginson, described an “unmoved” figure who closes “the valves of her attention.” This poet wrote that “Centuries…[feel] shorter than” a day when “The Dews drew quivering and chill.” This poet lived almost (*) her whole life in Amherst, Massachusetts, and she used ungrammatical dashes to write “The Soul selects her own Society” and a poem about a Carriage that held “but just Ourselves – And Immortality.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Because I could not stop for death.”
Emily (Elizabeth) Dickinson &lt;JR&gt; Bonuses
3

146639-)
This novel’s protagonist is challenged to a drink “by the corpse of Bacchus.” This novel’s protagonist leaves his lover’s dead body, which was “like saying goodbye to a statue,” and walks back to the hotel in the rain in its ending, which was rewritten 47 times. This novel’s main female character is accused of having no shame by her former friend Helen Ferguson, who works with Lieutenant (*) Rinaldi. Its main female character dies in Switzerland after its protagonist flees the Battle of Caporetto. The Italian Campaign of World War I is the setting of—for 10 points—what novel about the nurse Catherine Barkley and ambulance driver Frederic Henry by Ernest Hemingway?
A Farewell to Arms &lt;JR&gt;
3

146653-)
Warning: description acceptable. The second title character is given this trait in the most famous poem from the manuscript Cotton Nero A.x, which also includes the poems Patience and Purity. A character named for this trait is described by Brom Bones near Tarrytown in a story “written” by Diedrich (*) Knickerbocker and included in The Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon. After proposing to Katrina Van Tassel, Ichabod Crane sees a Hessian trooper who was put in this state by a stray cannonball. This state is averted by Lady Bertilak’s girdle after Gawain puts the Green Knight in this state. For 10 points, name this bodily state of a ghostly horseman in “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.”
being headless [accept reasonable equivalents like having no head or beheaded; prompt on answers like “dead” or “a ghost”] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146658-)
This man is talented at playing the Jew's harp, and he disappoints his son by refusing to play in a church football game. This man employs Calpurnia to raise his children. He demonstrates his famous accuracy at shooting when he guns down a (*) rabid dog. He shows the left-handedness of Bob Ewell, and his children are attacked on their way home from a Halloween pageant. Those children are saved from that attack by Boo Radley, who lives across from this defender of Tom Robinson and father of Jem and Scout in Maycomb, Alabama. For 10 points, name this righteous lawyer protagonist of Harper Lee's To Kill A Mockingbird.
Atticus Finch (accept either or both names)
3

146678-)
One of this writer's works frequently uses flute music and sees a father laughs at his son's theft of a football. Rodolpho's marriage to Catherine causes Eddie Carbone to turn Marco and Rodolpho in to the Immigration Bureau in his play A View from the Bridge. This man wrote a play in which Joe Keller's approval of faulty plane parts causes the death of (*) 21 pilots; that play is All My Sons. Abigail Williams starts the Salem Witch Trials in an allegory of McCarthyism by this man, while his most famous work ends with the suicide for insurance money by Willy Loman. For 10 points, name this author of The Crucible and Death of a Salesman.
Arthur Miller
3

146685-)
One character in this book hides himself out of modesty when putting on his boots, while another offers a gold doubloon as a reward. The black boy Pip goes insane in this novel, and the Persian Fedallah prophesies his employer will meet his death from hemp rope. One character builds his own (*) coffin in this book that contains the line "from hell's heart I stab at thee." That Quaker Starbuck and the harpooner Queequeg served on the Pequod in this novel with a man who says "Call me Ishmael." For 10 points, Captain Ahab relentlessly pursues the title white creature in what novel by Herman Melville?
Moby Dick: The Whale
3

146710-)
This poem describes a group "who broke down crying in white gymnasiums naked and trembling." It contains a footnote that repeatedly calls out "Holy!" and was published by Lawrence Ferlinghetti's City Lights Bookstore. This poem describes people "dragging themselves through the negro streets at dawn looking for an angry (*) fix," was dedicated to Carl Solomon, and contains the frequent themes of Moloch and the line "I am with you in Rockland." This poem that underwent an obscenity trial opens "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked." For 10 points, name this poem by the Beat poet Allen Ginsberg.
"Howl"
3

146735-)
The Abstract Expressionist Rabo Karabekian paints a potato barn as his final work in this author's Bluebeard. Norman Mushari attempts to obtain some of the title character's fortune by having him declared insane in this author's God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater and in another of his books, Malachi Constant visits (*) Saturn; that work is The Sirens of Titan. The science-fiction writer Kilgore Trout frequently appears in this writer's works, and Felix Hoenikker invents ice-nine in this author's book Cat's Cradle. In this writer's most famous novel, Billy Pilgrim meets Trafalmadorians and becomes "unstuck in time." For 10 points, name this author of Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut (accept Bluebeard before "author")
3

146748-)
One character in this book repeatedly says "Old Aarfy never paid for it" before murdering a maid. The character Sammy Singer appears in this novel's sequel Closing Time. The C.I.D. investigate the secret agent Washington Irving as the result of some false signatures in this book, which also sees an (*) IBM machine make Major Major a major as a prank. The world's Egyptian cotton supply is bought by the capitalist Milo in it, while everyone in the 256th squadron of the Air Force is forced to constantly fly more deadly air missions. For 10 points, name this novel by Joseph Heller with a title bureaucratic paradox that stars Yossarian.
Catch-22
3

146778-)
A book by this author was one of the first sea novels and sees the sailors Dick Fid and Scipio Africanus encounter the title pirate The Red Rover. Judge Marmaduke Temple is a character in a novel by this man set by Lake Otsego. A possibly satirical attack on this man's clichés was written by Mark Twain and describes his (*) "Literary Offenses." In his most famous novel, the Munro family are aided by Uncas and Chingachgook [chin-GATCH-gook], who are friends with a man whose epithets include Hawkeye and The Deerslayer. Natty Bumppo and The Leatherstocking Tales are creations of, for 10 points, what American author ofThe Last of the Mohicans?
James Fenimore Cooper
3

146795-)
This person wrote a short story in which the bible seller Manly Pointer steals Joy Hopewell's prosthetic leg. In one book by this author of "Good Country People," the protagonist blinds himself with lye and founds the Holy Church of Christ Without Christ; Hazel Motes is the protagonist of that novel, (*) Wise Blood. Julian's mother dies after riding an integrated bus to the YMCA in this writer's story "Everything that Rises Must Converge," and in another of this woman's stories a grandmother and her family are murdered by the Misfit. For 10 points, name this Southern Gothic author of "A Good Man is Hard to Find."
Flannery O'Connor
3

146808-)
A play by an author of this descent describes a French civil servant who discovers the opera singer he loves is actually a man; that play is M. Butterfly. One character of this ethnicity is Pearl Louie Brandt, who is the creation of an author who described the chess champion Waverly in another book. The (*) Kitchen God's Wife is a work of an author of this ethnicity, who described a daughter who takes her mother's place playing a game after she dies. That San Francisco-set work is centered around mahjong. For 10 points, name this native ethnicity of the author of The Joy Luck Club, Amy Tan, as well as the Tiger Mother.
Chinese-American (the first author mentioned is David Henry Hwang)
3

146822-)
In this novel, the protagonist has an encounter with John Wilson while delivering a pair of gloves. Governor Bellingham is distressed when a child fails to name God as her creator; that same child refuses to let her father kiss her when they meet by a brook. A key scene in this novel has the protagonist join a man standing upon a (*) scaffold. Robert Chillingworth had earlier been married to the protagonist of this book, who falls in love with the Reverend Dimmesdale. Because of that affair, Hester Prynne is forced to wear the title item upon her breast in, for 10 points, what novel by Nathaniel Hawthorne?
The Scarlet Letter
3

146850-)
A "mousy" character in this work continually drinks brandy even after throwing up, while another relates the story of a boy who asked for a bergin and a water at a bar. A History professor mistakes a member of the Biology Department for one of Math in this play, and acts in it are titled The Exorcism and (*) Walpurgisnacht. A story is invented in this play in which a non-existent son crashes into a tree to avoid hitting a porcupine. Games like Bringing Up Baby and Get the Guest are played in this play in which Nick and Honey visit the bickering couple George and Martha after a party. For 10 points, this is what play by Edward Albee?
 Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
3

146861-)
One character in this book works toward entering Oberlin College by studying under Miss Bodwin. Another character in this novel calls his heart a tobacco tin and fears a beautiful woman who walks fully dressed out of a stream. Characters in this novel include a man referenced as (*) "schoolteacher" who worked at Sweet Home and a granddaughter of Baby Suggs named Denver. Paul D abandons Sethe in this novel after learning about the mercy killing she performed on her daughter when faced with being returned to slavery. 124 Bluestone Road is visited by the title spirit in, for 10 points, what novel by Toni Morrison?
Beloved
3

146876-)
This man declared "Let the rain kiss you" in the opening to his poem "April Rain Song." The speaker of one of this writer's poems is told to "Go home and write / a page tonight" in "Theme for English B," while another of his poems takes place "down on Lennox Avenue," where a (*) "drowsy syncopated tune" is the title "Weary Blues." Lorraine Hansberry took the title of her play A Raisin in the Sun from this man's poem about a "dream deferred." For 10 points, name this poet who says "my soul has grown deep like" the title objects in "The Negro Speaks of Rivers," a member of the Harlem Renaissance.
Langston Hughes
3

146925-)
This character tells of two Russians who threw a newlywed couple to a pack of hungry wolves in order to escape. After this character leaves the service of the Harling family, she works for the wicked moneylender Wick Cutter, who attempts to molest her. This character's father plays the (*) violin and commits suicide. This character is made pregnant and abandoned by Larry Donovan, though she eventually has a happy marriage with Anton Cuzak after moving back to Black Hawk, Nebraska. She is friends with Jim Burden. For 10 points, what Bohemian immigrant and member of the Shimerda family titles a Willa Cather work?
Antonia Shimerda [accept Antonia Cuzak; prompt Shimerda and Cuzak before mention; grudgingly accept My Antonia]
3

146944-)
This man wrote an expressionist play about an brutish ocean liner worker who experiences an identity crisis, while his best known comedy sees Richard's mother worry about him reading subversive books. This author of Ah, Wilderness! and The Hairy Ape wrote a trilogy of plays set in the Civil War based on the (*) Oresteia named Mourning Becomes Electra. This playwright wrote a play in which a group of people muse on their pipe dreams and await the salesman Hickman in Harry Hope's bar. In another play, tuberculosis and a morphine addiction threaten members of the Tyrone family. For 10 points, who wrote The Iceman Cometh and Long Day's Journey into Night?
Eugene O'Neill
3

146974-)
One poem by this author talks about hunters who "would have the rabbit out of hiding / To please the yelping dogs" and describes a man who "moves in darkness as it seems to me." Another of his poems says "Eden sank to grief" and (*) "nothing gold can stay," while his collection North of Boston contains a poem with the line "good fences make good neighbors. In the most famous work of this author of "Mending Wall," he describes "leaves no step had trodden black" on a path that "bent in the undergrowth." For 10 points, name this author who wrote that "two roads diverged in a yellow wood" in "The Road Not Taken."
Robert Frost
3

146985-)
This writer claimed that "My life closed twice before its close" in one poem and wrote about "a Service, like a Drum" in another poem that opens with the line "I felt a Funeral, in my Brain." This poet wrote of feeling "zero at the bone" upon seeing a snake, which the speaker calls "A (*) narrow fellow in the grass." In another poem, this poet wrote "how public, like a frog" it was to be somebody after exclaiming "I'm nobody! Who are you?" This poet enters into a carriage with Immortality and the title figure in one poem. For 10 points, identify this reclusive "Belle of Amherst" who wrote the poem "Because I could not stop for Death."
Emily Dickinson BONUSES
3

146993-)
This author wrote a book in which Ben Richards flees from Hunters on a lethal game show; that book, The Running Man, was written under the pseudonym Richard Bachman. This author wrote about the gunslinger Roland in his Dark Tower series, while one of his novellas from the collection Different Seasons was the basis for The (*) Shawshank Redemption. A movie based on one of this author's books sees the title girl telekinetically murder her classmates after being doused in pig blood. One of this author's characters imprisons her favorite author in a cabin, while another goes crazy while staying at a reclusive hotel. For 10 points, name this man whose horror novels have included Carrie, Misery, and The Shining.
Stephen King
3

147013-)
One character with this occupation hires Natalie Teeger after Sharona Fleming leaves as his personal nurse. That character is played by Tony Shalhoub and is the star of a USA Network show, while another man with this occupation frequently says "just one more thing." The former character with this occupation is the (*) OCD-afflicted Monk, while the latter is Columbo. Kate Beckett holds this occupation, leading the mystery author Richard Castle to work with her. Benedict Cummerbatch plays a character with this occupation in a BBC show. For 10 points, name this occupation of a character who appears in Elementary and Sherlock.
 detective (accept private eye, private investigator, or other reasonable equivalents; prompt on "policeman")
3

147014-)
A CollegeHumor skit claiming to summarize this movie it just its staff shaking its head with the message "we're not going to go there."One character in this movie is annoyed by another's playing of a Beethoven piece on the harp. This movie's director makes a cameo as an Australian blown up with dynamite, and the titular character watches an escapee torn apart by dogs. A character is told to "say good bye (*) to Miss Lara", after which Miss Lara is shot. One character refuses to shake hands with a francophile Mississippi planter, Calvin Candide. The titular character is assisted in rescuing his wife, Broomhilda, by the Christoph Waltz-played Dr. Schultz. For 10 points, name this Quentin Tarantino movie staring Jaimie Foxx as the titular bounty hunter.
 Django Unchained
3

147047-)
This author wrote a play in which a woman plays “The Sunshine of Paradise Alley” on a piano, while later a man drunkenly sings “Dansons le Carmagnole.” In another play by this man, a woman is bothered by the sound of a foghorn and she blames her drunken son for fatally infecting young Eugene with measles. This author created a character who describes murdering his wife in a speech about (*) “pipe dreams.” This author wrote about the hardware salesman Hickey, who hangs out at Harry Hope’s saloon. In a semi-autobiographical play by this man, Jamie and the tubercular Edmund are the children of morphine addict Mary and actor James Tyrone. For 10 points, name this man who wrote such plays as The Iceman Cometh and Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
Eugene O’Neill
6

147068-)
. Harrison Hayford and Merton Sealts produced the “genetic” 1962 edition of this book, whose manuscript was rediscovered by its author’s biographer Raymond Weaver. Its final chapter is a ballad which depicts its main character “in the Darbies.” That character impresses Red Pepper by shooing away an afterguardsman and befriends a scarred man referred to as a “Dansker”. In its climactic event, a character is said to be “struck dead by an (*) angel of God,” though he was actually punched in the head by the stuttering title character. That title character says “God bless Captain Vere!” shortly before being hanged for his accidental murder of the master-at-arms John Claggart. For 10 points, name this novella about a sailor impressed aboard the Bellipotent, by Herman Melville.
Billy Budd, Sailor [accept Billy Budd, Foretopman]  Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament 2014: We're Not Happy 'til You're Not Happy Questions by Billy Busse, Rob Carson, Mike Cheyne, Andrew Hart, Melanie Keating, and Bernadette Spencer Round 1: Bonuses
6

147077-)
At an auction in this novel, a character frantically signals her husband to buy another man’s turquoise shirt stud, then retreats to her fortune-telling tent, where the other man kisses her. Near the end of this novel’s first part, two characters take a five-day trip to the river country, where they encounter a man experimenting with clover hay and learn about Charley Fuller’s acquisition plans. A ruptured appendix causes the death of Amedee Chevalier in this novel’s climactic fourth section, “The (*) White Mulberry Tree”. Its protagonist is advised to keep her hogs clean to ensure their survival by Crazy Ivar. Carl Linstrum marries this novel’s protagonist, whose brother Emil is found embracing Marie and is killed by a drunken Frank Shabata. For 10 points, identify this Willa Cather novel about Alexandra Bergson.
O Pioneers!
6

147109-)
One of this author’s characters is hit in the eye with a copy of Human Development, thrown by a girl who then tells her to “Go back to hell where you came from, you old wart hog”. In the essay “The King of the Birds”, she described living with forty pet peacocks. This author wrote about Mary Grace conveying a message from God to Mrs. Turpin in “Revelation” and penned a story in which the mute Lucynell is abandoned in the Hot Spot by the (*) one-armed Tom T. Shiftlet, who sees the title warning on a roadside billboard. In another of her short stories, the Bailey family gets into car accident caused when the grandmother startles her cat Pitty-Sing, and shortly thereafter the entire family is executed by a gang led by the Misfit. For 10 points, name this Southern author of “The Life You Save May Be Your Own” and “A Good Man is Hard to Find”.
Flannery O’Connor [or Mary Flannery O’Connor]
6

147114-)
This author described a place which was “no playhouse but a house in earnest” in a poem whose speaker tells the reader of a “broken drinking goblet like the Grail” and commands “Here are your waters and your watering place. Drink and be whole again beyond confusion.” He mused about whether his coming sleep is like that of the woodchuck, “or just some human sleep”, in a poem that begins “my long two-pointed (*) ladder’s sticking through a tree / toward heaven still”. This author of “Directive” and “After Apple-Picking” quipped that “one could do worse than be a swinger of” the title objects of one poem, and claimed to have “promises to keep, and miles to go before I sleep” in another. For 10 points, name this American poet of “Birches” and “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening”.
Robert Lee Frost
6

147144-)
A fictionalized city from this state includes residents like Mayor Mayor Herridge and Bellamy Craig II, who eventually appear in Rosemary Klein Kantor’s novel Rogue Duke when they die. A novel in which Bradd Criley and Jinny Marshland have an affair and a novel in which a character based partly on Walter Francis White discovers that he is descended from the black adventurer Xavier Pic are both set in this state’s fictional city Grand Republic. In another novel set in this state, Guy Pollock claims to have the “Village Virus” and Cy Bogart gets (*) Fern Mullins fired, while the Jolly Seventeen and the Thanatopsis Club are both targets of Carol Kennicott’s efforts to reform Gopher Prairie. For 10 points, name this state, the setting of Cass Timberlane, Kingsblood Royal, and Main Street and the home of their author, Sinclair Lewis.
Minnesota [the first book is Gore Vidal’s Duluth; do not accept or prompt on “Winnemac” because all of the Lewis novels mentioned are actually set in the real Minnesota]
6

147159-)
In one appearance, this character arranges the marriage of a friend’s son and a billionaire’s daughter in the New York Port Authority Bus Terminal. He spends much of the second half of another novel searching for his ex-lover Luciana. He refuses to eat fruit because of his supposed “Garnett-Fleischaker syndrome”, and he trades a package of dates for a quarter of a bedsheet belonging to McWatt. He is horrified by being unable to prevent the gruesome death of (*) Snowden, and at the end of the novel makes a deal with Colonels Korn and Cathcart. He is stabbed by Nately’s whore while AWOL in Rome with Milo Minderbinder. For 10 points, identify this Air Force captain who resents continually being forced to fly more missions, the protagonist of Joseph Heller’s Catch-22.
Captain John Yossarian
6

147176-)
The speaker of a poem by this man advises the reader to “drop thy still dews of quietness / till all our strivings cease” and asks the “still, small voice of calm” to “speak through the earthquake, wind, and fire”. His hymn “Dear Lord and Father of Mankind” was adapted from a poem containing the line “Behold the drink of the gods!” He wrote a poem in rhyming couplets which describes the lowering of forty objects displaying “silver stars” and “crimson bars” and relates a scene in (*) Frederick town. One of his poems describes a family reading the almanac on a gray December day, while another tells of a woman who tells some Confederates “Shoot, if you must, this old gray head / but spare your country's flag”. For 10 points, name this Fireside poet who wrote “The Brewing of Soma”, “Snow-Bound”, and “Barbara Frietchie”.
John Greenleaf Whittier
6

147210-)
In this play, a man who used to work as an overseer for Straw and Ochello tells a story about giving money to “howling children in the hills around Barcelona” before relating another story about being approached by a child prostitute in Marrakech. Various characters in this play respond to declarations of love with the line “Wouldn’t it be funny if that was true?” A character in this play doesn’t feel peaceful unless he (*) drinks until he hears a “click”, which also eases his disgust with the world’s “mendacity” and his sadness over Skipper’s suicide. Gooper and Mae scheme against this play’s protagonists to acquire the inheritance of the dying Big Daddy. For 10 points, name this Tennessee Williams play about Brick and Maggie Pollitt.
Cat on a Hot Tin Roof
6

147225-)
This author asserted that “the steel of freedom does not stain” in a poem containing three stanzas of responses to the questions “Say, who are you that mumbles in the dark? And who are you that draws your veil across the stars?” A long work by this poet both begins and ends with the couplet “Good morning, daddy! Ain’t you heard?”; that book contains such sections as “Early Bright”, “Dig and Be Dug”, and “Vice Versa to Bach”. This author of (*) “Let America Be America Again” described an instructor as “a part of me, as I am a part of you” in a poem about an assignment to “let that page come out of you”, his “Theme for English B”. His most famous poem asks if a certain entity “sags / like a heavy load” and wonders if it dries up “like a raisin in the sun”. For 10 points, name this poet whose Montage of a Dream Deferred contains “Harlem”.
Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes]
6

147254-)
A character created by this author kills Pernell for continually calling him “Champ”. This author wrote a play in which that character’s son sells stolen refrigerators to fund a store he hopes to open with his friend Mister. In another play, he created a character whose obsession with her dead husband Crawley frustrates her suitor Avery Brown. He created a “washer of souls” named Aunt Ester Tyler, who dies at age 366 in (*) King Hedley II. In one of his plays, Sutter’s ghost is driven away by Berniece, who opposes Boy Willie’s efforts to sell a musical instrument. In his most famous play, Cory is banned from playing football by his father, a former baseball player and current garbage man named Troy Maxson. For 10 points, name this African-American playwright whose “Pittsburgh Cycle” includes The Piano Lesson and Fences.
August Wilson [or Frederick August Kittel, Jr.]
6

147257-)
. In one of this author’s novels, Officer Bell falsely pins the rape of a Puerto Rican woman named Victoria Rogers on Fonny. In addition to that novel narrated by Tish Rivers, this man wrote a novel whose protagonist abandons his wife Hella to go to Nice, where he has an affair with a sailor. The title character of that novel by this man is executed for murdering the bar owner Guillaume, ending his (*) homosexual affair with the protagonist. He also created a character who fathered an illegitimate son named Royal with Esther but marries Elizabeth, who gives him a stepson who has a glossolalic religious experience on his fourteenth birthday. For 10 points, name this creator of Gabriel and John Grimes, the African-American author of If Beale Street Could Talk, Giovanni’s Room, and Go Tell it on the Mountain.
James Arthur Baldwin  Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament 2014: We're Not Happy 'til You're Not Happy Questions by Billy Busse, Rob Carson, Mike Cheyne, Andrew Hart, Melanie Keating, and Bernadette Spencer Round 10: Bonuses
6

147263-)
A woman in this novel is bitter about a man who promised her an acting career while dancing at the Riverside Dance Palace. Near the end of this novel, a character bemoans the continuing lack of ketchup, reminisces about an earlier threat to go live in a cave, and has a vision of his Aunt Clara. Another character in this novel wears a glove full of Vaseline on his left hand and suspects his wife of having an affair with the “jerkline skinner” (*) Slim. Its other characters include Crooks, the only black man, and Carlson, who heartlessly shoots Candy’s aging sheepdog. One of this novel’s main characters accidentally kills Curley’s wife while stroking her hair, derailing his dreams to live “off the fatta’ the land” on a much-discussed rabbit farm. For 10 points, name this John Steinbeck novel about George and Lennie.
Of Mice and Men
6

147289-)
A Daniel Dennett essay asserts that requesting a prequel novel about this character would not be the same as asking his creator to “tell us the answers you already know”. In one scene, this character listens to a radio broadcast about the Dalai Lama’s escape from China. At Club Castanet, he is surprised to encounter his sister Mim shortly after arguing with his former rival Ronnie Harrison. He is taken to a Chinese restaurant by his mentor Marty (*) Tothero and plays golf with the Episcopal priest Jack Eccles. His daughter Rebecca June is accidentally drowned by his wife Janice, who he temporarily abandons in order to shack up with Ruth Leonard. After inheriting a Toyota dealership, he “is rich”. For 10 points, identify this former high school basketball star, the protagonist of a series of John Updike novels.
Harry “Rabbit” Angstrom [accept either underlined portion; prompt on “Angstrom”]
6

147303-)
An essay by this author opens with a letter from “Mrs. M-- in Maryland”, outlines the Contract and Status models of reading and writing, and criticizes the codependency of literature and criticism in the works of William Gaddis. Richard Katz and his band Walnut Surprise release the hit album Nameless Lake in this man’s novel about the Berglund family. This author of “Mr. Difficult” wrote an essay bemoaning the state of the American novel titled “Why Bother?” for (*) Harper’s. In his most famous novel, a patent developed by the Parkinson’s-afflicted Alfred is used by the Axon Corporation to develop the drug Correcktall, while Enid Lambert attempts to organize a family reunion in St. Jude. For 10 points, name this contemporary American author of Freedom and The Corrections.
Jonathan Earl Franzen
6

147320-)
. In one scene in this story, the author of a well-received book on streptothricosis repairs a “huge, complicated machine” by replacing a faulty piston with a fountain pen. The onomatopoeic phrase “pocketa- pocketa-pocketa” repeatedly appears in this story, whose protagonist is mocked for saying “puppy biscuit” to himself and resents having to buy (*) overshoes. Opening with the Commander shouting “We’re going through!”, it also depicts its protagonist testifying in court as “the greatest pistol shot in the world” and standing in front of a firing squad while, in reality, waiting for his wife to get something from a drugstore. For 10 points, name this James Thurber story whose title character is constantly daydreaming.
“The Secret Life of Walter Mitty” Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament 2014: We're Not Happy 'til You're Not Happy Questions by Billy Busse, Rob Carson, Mike Cheyne, Andrew Hart, Melanie Keating, and Bernadette Spencer FINALS ROUND ONE: Bonuses
6

147334-)
A popular character in this novel is mocked with the appellation “Six-finger-dog-tooth-meringue-pie” by a pair of characters who are themselves targeted by Rosemary Villanucci. Its fifth chapter opens by describing a type of woman who only feels affection for her cat, as exemplified by Geraldine. One character in this novel was interrupted while having sex with Darlene by two white men, who laugh and force him to continue. Another of its characters is tricked into poisoning a dog owned by the (*) pedophile Soaphead Church. The narrator and her sister Frieda plant marigolds which fail to bloom, mirroring the death of a child created when the drunken Cholly rapes his daughter. For 10 points, Claudia MacTeer narrates which Toni Morrison novel, in which Pecola Breedlove obsesses about wanting to have white skin and the title facial feature?
The Bluest Eye
6

147344-)
The author of this webcomic depicted the death of a local boy from Cape Breton in the strip “Loss.” Categories on this webcomic include ones like “teens,” “youngerself,” “msnpaintings,” “gorey comics,” and those involving the recurring character of a (*) Shetland pony. This webcomic was published in the collection Step Aside Pops, and on a collection with a cover image of Napoleon. The phrases “Ooh Mister Darcy” and “Aww yiss breadcrumbs” originate from this webcomic. Recurring subjects in this comic include classic books of literature and historical figures, especially feminists and Canadians. For 10 points, name this history-based comic written and drawn by Kate Beaton.
Hark! A Vagrant
9

147345-)
One of this artist’s minor creations was a department store catalogue cartoon called “Mr. Mops.” Early creations by this artist include Totor, a Boy Scout leader, and “Quick &amp; Flupke,” who appeared in the newspaper “Little Twentieth.” This cartoonist’s introduction to Zhang Chongren inspired him to draw (*) The Blue Lotus. This cartoonist’s pseudonym came from the reverse initials of his real name, and he pioneered the “clear line” style in a series with adventures like “The Secret of the Unicorn” and “Red Rackham’s Treasure.” In his most famous series, Professor Calculus, Captain Haddock, and the terrier Snowy go on adventures with the title character, a young Belgian reporter. For 10 points, name this cartoonist, the creator of The Adventures of Tintin.
Hergé (or Georges Prosper Remi)
9

147349-)
In one scene in this book, the title character practices telling his grandmother she looks well today, despite dying of cancer. A two-page “The Store So Far” feature in this book feature summarizes its previous half. A flashback in this book shows the title character witnessing a man in a (*) Superman costume plummet from a building to his death. Running parallel to this book’s main story is the story of the protagonist’s grandfather, who deals with his abusive father during the 1893 Chicago World’s Fair. Despite this book’s subtitle, the title character is a socially awkward 35-year-old man who meets his father for the first time during Thanksgiving. For 10 points, name this graphic novel about the “Smartest Kid on Earth,” written, drawn, and inked by Chris Ware.
Jimmy Corrigan, The Smartest Kid on Earth
9

147353-)
A citizen of this city named Michael Tenicek has dreams about the nonexistent Miranda in the issue “The Nearness of You.” This city mistakenly executed the Silver Agent, and every comic set in it ends with a road sign saying “You are now leaving [this city].” Toy maker Jack Johnson became the Jack-in-the-Box in this city, and this city’s (*) Shadow Hill is haunted by the Hanged Man. The Honor Guard operates out of this city. Superman and Wonder Woman parodies Samaritan and Winged Victory were created for a series titled after this city, which includes various stories like a call operator for a superhero group or the attempts of heroes to go on dates. For 10 points, name this city created by Kurt Busiek that titles an anthology series focusing on the “human” stories in a world of superheroes.
Astro City
9

147355-)
General Norton Ricker convinced this character to try pancakes, much to the anguish of Astaroth. After Father Kelly died in Griart, NYU Professor Kate Corrigan and this character kill a werewolf. He possesses an item key to summoning the Ogdru Jahad. With the assistance of the (*) Nazis, Rasputin summoned this character as part of Project Ragna Rok. This character works with the fish-man Abe Sapien and the pyrokinetic Liz Sherman, and he wields the Right Hand of Doom. The true name of this character created by Mike Mignola is Anung Un Rama, and he was raised as a human child by Trevor Bruttenholm before joining the Bureau for Paranormal Research and Defense. For 10 points, name this paranormal investigator, a red, horned demon.
Hellboy (accept Anung Un Rama before mention; accept World Destroyer, Beast of the Apocalypse, Son of the Fallen One; prompt on Red before mention)
9

147356-)
Early strips show this character asking for a glass of water at the worst possible moment. This character once said “Happiness is a warm puppy,” and in early strips was associated with the moniker “fussbudget.”This character repeatedly makes excuses like “The (*) moons of Saturn got in my eyes” while playing baseball and calls another a “blockhead.” This character has has an unrequited affection for the piano playing Schroeder. This character often berates her blanket-wielding brother Linus, and she dispenses psychiatric advice out of a booth for 5 cents. For 10 points, name this bossy girl who repeatedly pulls a football away as Charlie Brown attempts to kick it in Peanuts.
Lucy van Pelt (prompt on last name)
9

147358-)
By using a magic ring given by Chief Kawolo, William Glenmorgan took on the form of a “Golden” one of these animals. Julius Schwartz reported that DC comics had to limit itself to writing one story involving these animals per month. The Brotherhood of Evil member (*) The Brain created a villainous one of these animals named Monsieur Mallah, and the Ultra-Humanite’s brain was placed in an albino one of these animals. King Solovar leads a utopia of hyper-intelligent instances of these animals, and the Flash frequently battles a psychic one of these animals. For 10 points, Grodd is an example of what animals that in early comics were especially inspired by King Kong?
gorillas (prompt on ape, but not “monkey”)
9

147367-)
A postmodernist entry in this comic strip showed its central three characters and the phrase “Now, let’s (circle) this (triangle).” An essay about how this strip’s title character “Walks By Himself,” was included The Seven Lively Arts by Gilbert Seldes, and the foreword to its first book was written by e.e. cummings. Secondary characters in this strip include Mrs. Kwakk Wakk and Joe Stork, and it first appeared in (*) Hearst’s New York Evening Journal. This strip was set in its author George Herriman’s home in Cococino County, Arizona. “Offissa” Bull Pupp is in love with the title character, who in turn is in love with Ignatz Mouse, despite the latter’s constantly throwing bricks at this strip’s title character. For 10 points, name this alliteratively-titled and highly influential early 20th century comic strip about an “insane” feline.
Krazy Kat
9

147378-)
This character sometimes anonymously talks through the problems of both Batman and the Riddler in an online chatroom. During the “Day of Vengeance” storyline, this character convinced a group of drinkers at the Oblivion Bar to become the Shadowpact that fought the Spectre. While galumphing around with (*) Rex the Wonder Dog, this character found and drank from the Fountain of Youth, and in his first appearance, this character is trained by Fred Thorpe as a carnival act before solving the mystery of Thorpe’s murder. Despite his addiction to cigarettes and alcohol, this character is a member of Mensa, and is said to be second in investigative skill only to Batman. For 10 points, name this hyper-intelligent, crime-solving primate of the DC Universe.
Detective Chimp (accept Bobo T. Chimpanzee; Writer’s note: accept any attempt at producing“mostly an unpronounceable screech and three grunts” or its translation, Magnificent Finder of Tasty Grubs)
9

147396-)
In one comic this character creates a set of silent carpentry tools, and in another he claims to be “not really into Pokemon.” In one comic this character calls one character “my dearest darling danish” and is in turn called “My lovely cutie pie.” The “Hitler” comic states that this character is based on the character Aram from a different comic, and this character fills the Capitol with a ball pit after being nominated to (*) “Secretary of the Internet.” A single panel comic shows this character fornlornly sighing after using a submarine to track down a girl he would later begin dating, which occurred after this character pretended to write in a journal on the train. This character participates in “nerd sniping” and generally plays sadistic pranks in the webcomic he appears in. For 10 points, name this xkcd character named for the act of malicious hacking.
Black Hat Guy
9

147399-)
After being kidnapped, this character’s son Joseph had his vocal cords cut; that son later became known as Jericho and begged this character to kill him after being possessed by Azarath. This character is often assisted by his friend Wintergreen. This character’s origins were revealed by his ex-wife Adeline to (*) Nightwing during the “Judas Contract,” in which he used Terra as a secret agent. This character can use 90% of his brain due to a government experiment, and he was shot in the right eye by his ex-wife. This longtime enemy of the Teen Titans wears an orange and black costume that splits his face in half, and he usually carries a big ass sword. For 10 points, name this humorless mercenary with real name Slade Wilson.
Deathstroke (accept Slade Wilson before mention)
9

147400-)
In this character’s first appearance, she remarks she doesn’t want anyone “pulling her tab” after choosing the name Sprite. This character memorably told a fairy tale to her boyfriend’s little sister. This character single-handedly defeated an N’Garai demon when left alone on (*) Christmas Eve, and she owns a pet dragon named Lockheed. This character has recently become Star-Lady, and her previous boyfriends include Star-Lord and Colossus. This character transferred her mind into the past in the Days of Future Past storyline, and she first appeared during the Dark Phoenix Saga as a 13-year-old girl before joining Charles Xavier’s school. For 10 points, name this member of the X-Men who can phase through solid objects.
Katherine “Kitty” Anne Pryde (or Kate Pryde; or Shadowcat or Ariel; accept Sprite or Star-Lady before mention; Writer’s note: accept any of Katya, Katzchen, or Pun’kin)
9

147411-)
This book ends on the image of a girl leaping off a diving board in a comparison to Icarus, and its narrator recalls discovering a naked photograph of her babysitter Roy. A pale blue shading was used to color this book, and most panels in it were modeled on photographs. While studying at (*) Oberlin, the narrator learns of another character’s death at home in Beech Creek, which she believes is a suicide. This book was followed by the “sequel” Are You My Mother? and it was written by the author of the comic strip Dykes to Watch Out For. This book parallels the author’s own coming out against the author’s closeted gay father, and its title puns on its partial setting at a funeral home. For 10 points, name this graphic memoir by Alison Bechdel later made into a Broadway musical.
Fun Home
9

147421-)
In one book, this artist’s cousin Josh says “Pssh. Those aren’t real comics” in reference to comics like Calvin &amp; Hobbes and Fox Trot. This person’s most recent book is Ghosts, and in 2006, this artist began illustrating the (*) The Baby-Sitters Club. This artist illustrated X-Men Misfits with her husband Dave Roman, and she described several performers in middle school musical theater in her book Drama. One of this author’s books describes her experiences growing up in San Francisco with younger siblings Amara and Will, and is a sequel to a book depicting a sixth grade accident that knocks out two front teeth and is subtitled “A Dental Drama.” For 10 points, name this graphic novelist, the author of the memoirs Sisters and Smile.
Raina Telgemeier (prompt on just “Raina,” as I guess she’s a character in several clues)
9

147424-)
This character confronts Barry Hubris, who uses the same superhero name as him. In his first issue, this character escapes an insane asylum and is attacked by ninjas after meeting Superman-parody “The Caped Wonder.” This character encounters the Man-Eating Cow and the (*) Chainsaw Vigilante, and this character’s sidekick is an accountant named Arthur. This character was originally created for the New England Comics newsletter by Ben Edlund, though he’s appeared in an animated series and a live-action series where he was portrayed by Patrick Warburton. This character is “nigh-invulnerable” and he has a habit of yelling “SPOON!” as a battle cry. For 10 points, name this absurdist and spoofy superhero who takes the form of a giant blue bug.
the Tick
9

147427-)
One character with this surname is pitted by Immortus into a deathmatch with all other versions of that character. A character with this surname creates his own pocket-universe and admits to wanting to have “his own Galactus.” As one of these characters was being crowned queen of the Old Atlanteans, her brother was trapped in the (*) Negative Zone. A hero with this surname creates the Bridge, which he uses to try and “Solve Everything." In 2009, Jonathan Hickman began writing a series that prominently features characters with this surname. The time-traveling Nathaniel shares this surname with his grandchildren Valeria and Franklin, the children of characters with this surname who found the Future Foundation and live in the Baxter Building. For 10 points, name this “first family” of the Marvel Universe headed by Sue and Reed.
Richards (accept Valeria Richards, Franklin Richards, Reed Richards, Sue Richards; prompt on Sue Storm by saying, “post-marriage, please”)
9

147429-)
Collected editions of this comic include Shave the Whales and Optimism Sounds Exhausting. The book Seven Years of Highly Defective People explains the origins of several of the characters in this comic, like an extremely intelligent garbageman, Bob the Dinosaur, and a demon named (*) “Phil, the Prince of Insufficient Light.” A cynical dog in this comic is drawn wearing the same glasses his owner does, and employees in this comic include Alice, Wally, and Asok. This comic’s main character is inexplicably drawn with his tie curling upward, and despite his technical prowess, is usually at the whim of his micromanaging pointy-haired boss. For 10 points, name this Scott Adams-created comic about a white-collar office worker.
Dilbert
9

147441-)
This book ends with one character lying naked in the ocean, and it begins with a character seeing the title entity and fainting while dissecting a frog. A repeated motif throughout this book is pieces of discarded (*) detritus, and several characters in this comic frequently gather around a campground called “the pit.” Keith eventually begins a relationship with the tail-adorned Eliza, and Chris begins molting skin in this book after spending a night with Rob. This comic is set in Seattle among several teenagers suffering from a disease called “the Bug.” For 10 points, name this comic by Charles Burns about a sexually transmitted disease that causes horrific mutations.
Black Hole
9

147442-)
In Neil Gaiman’s story “Hold Me,” this character hugs the ghost of a homelass man. Jamie Delano’s run with this character ended with his confrontation of the serial killer the Family Man. This character tried to combat a demon summoned by the child Astra while on tour with his band (*) Mucous Membrane in Newgate. This character’s exes include Nick Necro and Zatanna. Garth Ennis’s run with this character included the story “Dangerous Habits,” which showed him contracting lung cancer. This character was the protagonist of Vertigo’s Hellblazer series, in which he was depicted as a trenchcoat-wearing Brit modeled after Sting. For 10 points, name this chain smoking occult detective and sorceror.
John Constantine (accept either or both names; accept Hellblazer before mention)
9

147448-)
The minor heroines Tora Olafsdotter and Sigrid Nansen both possess this power. Cameron Mahkent genetically inherited this power from his father Dr. Joar Mahkent, and the Firestorm adversary Dr. Louise Lincoln gained this power and became a supervillainess with the word (*) “Killer” in her title. The Barry Allen villain Leonard Snart typically uses a gun that lets him use this power, and the most famous villain with this power suffered an industrial accident while trying to heal his terminally ill wife Nora and so requires a suit to survive. For 10 points, name this thematic ability of the Batman villain Victor Fries.
cold-based powers (accept really any synonym, like freezing or ice or snow; in order, the unnamed heroes/villains are Ice, Icemaiden, Icicle, Killer Frost, and Captain Cold)
9

147449-)
This artist debuted onto the comics scene with a book in which the title turtle tells the story of Orpheus and Eurydice to his mouse deer girlfriend Dandel before leaving her for the ocean. Bandits slit the throat of a scribe who marries a nine-year old girl at the beginning of one of this man’s works, which uses a North African talisman as a framing device and delves heavily into (*) numerology to tell the story of the title character and Zam, two escaped slaves. In another work, this creator of Good-Bye, Chunky Rice drew on his evangelical Christian upbringing to first tell the story of his relationship with his younger brother Phil, including their abuse at the hands of a babysitter, followed by the story of falling in love at church camp with a girl named Raina. For 10 points, name this award-winning creator of the graphic novels Habibi and Blankets.
Craig Thompson
9

147452-)
This character was trained by a martial arts master named I-Ching during a period when her powers were taken away and she was forced to run a mod clothing boutique. The Circle attempted kill this character as an infant, and in the “OMAC Project" story, this character snaps the neck of Maxwell Lord. The (*) Cheetah is this character’s arch-enemy, and her sidekicks have included Cassie Sandsmark and Donna Troy. This character possesses the Bracelets of Submission, a razor-sharp tiara, and the Lasso of Truth. Hippolyta is this character’s mother, and she was crafted out of clay on the secret island of Themyscira. For 10 points, name this DC superhero, a Princess of the Amazons.
Wonder Woman (accept Diana Prince)
9

147455-)
One character with this profession was based off Caligula and used his position as head of the SJS to assassinate Clarence Goodman. “Mortis” and “Fear” are among four undead villains with this profession that make up its “Dark” version. They undergo the (*) Long Walk upon retirement, and prominent characters with this profession include Eustace Fargo, Rico, and Cassandra Anderson. These figures rule Mega-City One, and they wear face-covering black-and-red helmets. The most prominent of these figures is the longest running character in the British comic 2000 AD and often says, “I am the law!” In addition to their title role, they serve as police, jury, and executioner. For 10 points, name this dystopian profession held by Dredd.
judge (accept specific types and bodies, like street judge, Chief Judge, psi-Judge, or the Special Judicial Squad)
9

147457-)
This character argues that a family chose him in a page that overlays his face in a checkerboard pattern over his opponent’s face. This character angrily asks “You think you could have done...so...much...better?” to his opponent as Owen Reece listens nearby. After being challenged, this character kills Thanos in a single punch, and he tricked (*) Ben Grimm into acting as the Shield. Using the power of Molecule Man and the Beyonders, this character created a reality in which he was served by Sheriff Strange and the Thor Corps. This villain presided as “God Emperor” over the various Battleworlds in the 2015 Secret Wars, which ended with this man in Latveria discovering that his face had healed after taking off his iron mask. For 10 points, name this megalomaniacal arch-rival of Mr. Fantastic.
Doctor Doom (or Victor Von Doom)
9

147461-)
This person recalled being asked by a friend, “What comes after the dining car?,” and in his most famous book, he described discovering three people who shared his full name in a phone book. His books include Not the Israel My Parents Promised Me and The Quitter, and this artist accused (*) David Letterman of being a shill for General Electric. Many dolls of this artist have been made by his wife Joyce Brabner, who also collaborated with him on the graphic novel Our Cancer Year. This artist retired as a file clerk at the VA Hospiral in 2001, two years before a documentary of his life was made starring Paul Giamatti. For 10 points, name this “poet laureate of Cleveland,” the author of the autobiographical American Splendor.
Harvey Pekar (Writer’s note: What comes after the dining car? The Pe-kar; Ed’s note: Pekar’s last comic was Harvey Pekar Meets the Thing; naturally they talk about being Jewish and Ben asking if Pekar can get him a job at the VA Hospital)
9

147471-)
The appendix of a book in this genre includes a poem satirizing “pious priests” who attack “Jack and Nell” in the name of “heavenly union.” The protagonist of that book in this genre recovers his sense of manhood after winning a fight with Mr. Covey. The protagonist of a novel in this genre has two children out of wedlock, Benny and Ellen, with Mr. Sands, who helps protect her from Doctor Flint. That book in this genre was written under the pseudonym Linda Brent by Harriet Jacobs. Olaudah Equiano and Frederick Douglass wrote books in this genre, which often end by describing the author’s life in the North. For 10 points, name this genre of memoirs about experiences in captivity.
slave narratives [prompt on partial answers; prompt on memoirs or autobiographies]
6

147494-)
A story by this author compares men to lice clinging “to a whirling, fire-smote, ice-locked, disease-stricken, space-lost bulb.” This author wrote a story in which the Easterner tells the cowboy that Johnnie was cheating at cards, revealing that they were complicit in the death of the Swede. The protagonist of a novel by this author is nursed by his friend Wilson after being asked by a “tattered soldier” where his wound is. He wrote a novel whose main character leads a successful charge against the Confederate line after overcoming his cowardice. For 10 points, name this American author of “The Blue Hotel” who wrote about Henry Fleming in The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane
6

147505-)
A novel set at one of these places opens by describing the annual arrival of an “assembly of station wagons.” In another novel, the protagonist is fired from one of these places after he refers to two black people as “spooks.” In Look Homeward, Angel, Eugene Gant leaves one of these places for home after he hears that his brother Ben has pneumonia. Tom Wolfe’s novel I Am Charlotte Simmons is set at one of these institutions, which employ Coleman Silk in Philip Roth’s The Human Stain and Jack Gladney in White Noise. One of these institutions is home to the Iowa Writers Workshop. For 10 points, name these institutions of higher learning that award English degrees.
colleges [or universities; or any of these specific universities: College-on-the-Hill or Athena College or University of North Carolina or UNC or Dupont University or University of Iowa]
6

147523-)
In an allusion to the Book of Isaiah, this author described a “cup of trembling” that glowed and shook as the title character plays the piano at the end of a short story. An unfinished memoir by this author inspired a 2016 documentary by Raoul Peck. An essay by this author recounts his meeting with Elijah Muhammad, and analyzes the growing appeal of the Nation of Islam. The documentary I Am Not Your Negro focuses on this author of “Sonny’s Blues,” who wrote a book containing the essays “Down at the Cross” and “My Dungeon Shook,” as well as a novel set on the fourteenth birthday of John Grimes. For 10 points, name this African-American author of The Fire Next Time and the novel Go Tell It on the Mountain.
James Baldwin
6

147539-)
The main character of this novel persuades her husband to buy a skinny yellow mule by comparing the sale to the Emancipation Proclamation. The grandmother of this novel’s protagonist forces her into a marriage to Johnnie Walker. This novel's main character briefly finds an ideal marriage, though it is cut short when her husband is bitten by a rabid dog during a hurricane, forcing her to shoot him. Its protagonist is acquitted by an all-white jury for the murder of Tea Cake, and then returns home to a town founded by African-Americans called Eatonville. For 10 points, name this novel that follows the story of Janie Crawford, written by Zora Neale Hurston.
Their Eyes Were Watching God
6

147547-)
A character in a novel by this author performs a baptism “in the name of the Devil” using blood instead of water. A character in that novel by this author spends a day at the Try Pots Inn by locking himself in his room and praying to his god Yojo. The narrator of a story by this author bribes Mr. Cutlets to ensure the protagonist is well-fed while imprisoned in “The Tombs.” He wrote a story whose title character is employed to help Turkey and Nippers, but soon ceases productive work by repeating “I would prefer not to.” For 10 points, name this American author of “Bartleby the Scrivener,” who depicted the obsessed Captain Ahab in his novel Moby Dick.
Herman Melville
6

147585-)
A character created by this author defines happiness as being “dissolved into something complete and great” while lying in the fields of his grandparents’ farm. One of this author’s protagonists is caught kissing a boy at a Saturday night dance, causing her to be fired by the Harling family. This author wrote a novel whose title character is assaulted by Wick Cutter before enjoying a happy marriage with Anton Cuzak. In that novel by this author, Jim Burden remembers growing up with the title Bohemian immigrant, a member of the Shimerda family. For 10 points, name this American author from Nebraska who wrote My Antonía.
Willa Cather
6

147589-)
One of this author’s title characters declares “We shall yet make these United States a moral nation!” after blackmailing Hettie Dowler to prevent her from going public with their affair. Another of his main characters joins her town’s Thanatopsis reading club, but is forced to put on a mediocre play called The Girl From Kankakee. This author wrote a novel whose hypocritical title character becomes the lover of Sharon Falconer before leading a congregation in Zenith. In another novel by this author, Carol Kennicott attempts to change the bleak small-town life of Gopher Prairie. For 10 points, name this American author of Elmer Gantry and Main Street.
Sinclair Lewis
6

147603-)
In a short story by this author, Mrs. McIntyre chooses not to warn a Polish immigrant named Mr. Guizac about a runaway tractor which crushes him to death. Another short story by this author ends with its main character being savagely beaten by his wife Sarah Ruth, who considers his tattoo of Christ’s face to be idolatrous. One of this author’s antagonists laments that another character could have been a good woman if “somebody had been there to shoot her every minute of her life.” This author of “The Displaced Person” and “Parker’s Back” wrote a story in which the Grandmother is killed by the Misfit. For 10 points, identify this Southern author of  “A Good Man Is Hard To Find.”
: Flannery O’Connor
6

147610-)
A racist in this novel cites Goddard’s book The Rise of the Colored Empires to argue that white “Nordics” have created “all the things that go to make civilization.” Its narrator describes a rich couple as “careless people” who “smashed up things and creatures” and “let other people clean up the mess they had made.” Near the end of this novel, the title character’s gold car runs over Myrtle Wilson, causing the title character to be murdered by Myrtle’s husband George. Its final page compares the discovery of America to the title character’s pursuit of the “green light,” which symbolizes his dream of Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Great Gatsby
6

147648-)
At the end of this novel, its protagonist finally begins finishing his dissertation on his ancestor, after he abandoned it during a long period he calls his “Great Sleep.” A judge in this novel commits suicide after its protagonist uncovers that he ruined Mortimer Littlepaugh’s life. Shortly after its narrator learns that Judge Irwin was his father, he begins an affair with Anne. During this novel, Tiny Duffy tells Adam Stanton about his sister’s affair, causing Adam to shoot Jack Burden’s employer, who is known as “the Boss.” For 10 points, name this novel whose main character, the politician Willie Stark, is loosely based on Huey Long, written by Robert Penn Warren.
All the King’s Men
6

147653-)
In a poem by this author, a wife cries “don’t, don’t, don’t, don’t” on a stairwell after encountering her husband, who complains “Can’t a man speak of his own child he’s lost?” Another poem by this author compares the fallen “inner dome of heaven” to the ice melting off the title trees, which are so malleable the speaker imagines that a boy plays on them until their tops reach the ground. This author of “Home Burial” wrote a poem whose speaker describes a forest as “lovely, dark, and deep,” but moves on because he has “promises to keep / and miles to go before I sleep.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Birches” and “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.”
Robert Frost
6

147679-)
A poet from this movement exclaimed “Like men we’ll face the murderous, cowardly pack / Pressed to the wall, dying, but fighting back” in a sonnet which implores its audience not to act like hunted hogs. A poem from this movement uses parentheses to set off the line “America never was America to me.” This movement included the author of “If We Must Die,” Claude McKay. Another poet from this movement wrote “Let America Be America Again” as well as a poem asking “what happens to a dream deferred?” That poet is Langston Hughes. For 10 points, name this African American literary movement of the 1920s and 1930s named after a neighborhood in New York City.
the Harlem Renaissance [prompt on partial answer]
6

147690-)
A speech in this novel claims that although “no code” mattered to a poor woman “before she broke it,” it “came crashing down on her afterwards.” A character in this novel attempts to dispel the idea that courage is a man with a gun by making his son read to the morphine-dependent Mrs. Dubose. Its narrator befriends a character based on the author’s friend Truman Capote, her summer friend Dill. The housekeeper Calpurnia looks after the narrator and her brother, who later walk home from a Halloween pageant only to be attacked by Bob Ewell. For 10 points, name this novel set in Maycomb about Jem, Scout, and Atticus Finch, written by Harper Lee.
To Kill A Mockingbird
6

147695-)
In a stream-of-consciousness chapter of a novel by this author, a character constantly refers to her mother as “a hot thing.” That character created by this author asks “You rememory me?” in a sequence of three intertwining disembodied voices only heard by women. This author wrote a novel whose main character explains that she has a “tree” on her back because of beatings she received from Schoolteacher. This author wrote a novel that begins “124 Bluestone Road was spiteful,” in which Paul D helps nurse an escaped slave back to health. For 10 points, name this American author who wrote about Sethe’s murder of her infant daughter in her novel Beloved.
Toni Morrison
6

147722-)
A homeless character created by this author dreams of going to jail on Blackwell’s Island for the winter in order to stay warm. In another story by this author, a painter dies of pneumonia after painting the title object on a brick wall in order to save Johnsy’s life. This author of “The Cop and the Anthem” created a character who is ridden like a horse for miles after he and “Snake-eye” kidnap the child of Ebenezer Dorset. In another story by this author, Della sells her hair to buy her husband a chain for his watch, only to learn that he sold it to buy her a comb. For 10 points, name this author of the short stories “The Last Leaf,” “The Ransom of Red Chief,” and “The Gift of the Magi.”
O. Henry [or William Sydney Porter]
6

147741-)
At the end of a story by this author, a man tells a woman in an elevator that if she wants to look at his feet, she should just say so and not be a “God-damned sneak about it.” In that short story by this author, a man makes a young girl jealous by mentioning Sharon Lipschutz while they play on a beach. The protagonist of that story tells Sibyl Carpenter to go inside before shooting himself. The protagonist of a novel by this author visits a merry-go-round with his younger sister Phoebe in New York and constantly rails against “phonies.” For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Seymour Glass in "A Perfect Day For Bananafish" and Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
Jerome David Salinger
6

147755-)
. This poet wrote about women who “believe in Christ and Longfellow, both dead,” and who are “unbeautiful and have comfortable minds” in his poem “the Cambridge ladies who have furnished souls.” In another poem by this author, a “trig westpointer most succinctly bred” has his subordinates beat up the title character. He asked “how do you like your blue-eyed boy / Mister Death” in a poem which begins “Buffalo Bill’s / defunct.” The title “conscientious object-or” is “more brave than me:more blond than you” in this poet’s “i sing of olaf glad and big.” For 10 points, name this American poet known for his unusual punctuation and capitalization.
Edward Estlin Cummings [or e. e. cummings] Bonuses
6

147762-)
In this play, flute music accompanies the appearance of the protagonist’s rich older brother. In this play, a mother tells her sons that “attention must be paid” to a man like her husband. One character claims that not being “well liked” will prevent Bernard’s son Charley from being successful. The protagonist of this play nearly drives his Chevrolet off the road on the way to New England. Happy’s brother never recovered from flunking math. Towards the end of this play, the main character recalls how Biff discovered his adultery with a woman he pretends is a “buyer.” For 10 points, Willy Loman commits suicide in what Arthur Miller play?
Death of a Salesman: Certain Private Conversations in Two Acts and a Requiem &lt;SJW&gt;
4

147779-)
One of this author’s protagonists is a puppeteer who mourns the loss of his former lover, Drenka. The assimilated Brenda Patimkin has an ill-fated summer fling with Neil Klugman in his breakout novella. Those works are Sabbath’s Theater and Goodbye Columbus. The effect of Merry Levov’s descent into terrorism on her father, The Swede, is narrated by recurring character Nathan Zuckerman in one of his novels. His most famous protagonist narrates to Dr. Spielvogel his exploits with girlfriends nicknamed “The Pilgrim”, “The Pumpkin”, and “The Monkey”. For 10 points, name this Jewish-American author of American Pastoral and Portnoy’s Complaint.
Philip Milton Roth &lt;JL&gt;
4

147798-)
In this novel, the ghost of a baby floating in a “bar’l” down a river in a storm haunts a raft of drunken soldiers. The protagonist retrieves a love note from a Bible in a church pew for Sophia, whose brother Buck joins the rest of the Grangerfords in hating the Shepherdsons. Near the end, that title character finds a companion in Sally Phelps’ household who he’d earlier lost track of in heavy fog. The protagonist flees the alcoholic Pap and later meets two conmen, the Duke and the Dauphin, who sell a character once owned by Widow Douglas, the slave Jim. For 10 points, name this novel about travels down the Mississippi by a namesake friend of Tom Sawyer, by Mark Twain.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn &lt;MJ&gt; Round 2 Bonuses
4

147806-)
One of this author’s protagonists refers to her brother-in-law’s children as “no-neck monsters”. One of this author’s characters attempts to lobotomize Catherine to prevent her from telling the circumstances of Sebastian’s death. This author created a character who complains of “mendacity” when he finds out his family has lied about his spastic colon being cancerous. Besides writing Suddenly Last Summer and creating Big Daddy Pollit, this author created a character who dreams of being carried off by Shep Huntleigh, before being assaulted by Stella’s husband, Stanley Kowalski. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III] &lt;JL&gt;
4

147837-)
The protagonist of one novel by this author asks her neighbor and future love to retrieve a cat from a telephone pole. That cat belongs to a character who kisses Maria, who later becomes the husband of Frank Shabata. One of this author’s characters becomes a dressmaker in San Francisco after leaving Black Hawk. In one of her novels, Alexandra Bergson tries to manage her family and in another, Jim Burden describes his love for the title Bohemian girl from the Shimerda family. Both of those novels are set in Nebraska. For 10 points, name this author of O Pioneers! and My Antonia.
Willa Sibert Cather &lt;JL&gt;
4

147847-)
The decadent artist Gloriani appears in two of this author’s novels: the first is about a sculptor who falls for Christina Light, the second about the spiritual awakening of Lambert Strether. This author of Roderick Hudson created a character who is romantically pursued by Caspar Goodwood, but tricked by Madame Merle into marrying Gilbert Osmond. Another character created by this author of The Ambassadors tries to convince Mrs. Grose that she has seen the ghost of Peter Quint. For 10 points, name this American author who wrote about Isabel Archer in Portrait of a Lady and the haunting of children in the Governess’ charge in The Turn of the Screw.
Henry James &lt;JL&gt;
4

147873-)
The last act of this play sees one character enter with an armful of snapdragons, which he then throws like spears. A biologist in this play married his wife because she had a hysterical pregnancy, and that wife is only ever referred to as “Honey.” Two different characters in this play are said to have crashed cars after swerving to avoid hitting a porcupine. The main characters of this work play a number of nightmarish games, including “Get the Guest” and “Hump the Hostess” while drinking heavily after a faculty party. This play’s climax sees Nick told that George and Martha’s son doesn’t actually exist. For 10 points, name this Edward Albee play.
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? &lt;SJW&gt;
4

147875-)
A bathroom shower in this work features a panel with over a hundred options for washing and cosmetics. In this book, the word “leave” is used euphemism for a catatonic episode undergone by the protagonist’s mother, and the narrator uses flowers to cover Rue. Silver parachutes occasionally fall in this book, which introduces supporting characters such as Effie Trinket, the drunk Haymitch Abernathy, and the protagonist’s sister Primrose. For 10 points, Peeta Meelark and Katniss Everdeen are the two tributes from District 12 in what novel by Suzanne Collins about a competition in which teens fight to the death?
The Hunger Games &lt;MPG/MJ&gt;
4

147878-)
In one of this author’s stories, a character recollects a song about a soldier of the Legion dying in Algiers. In that story by this author, one character repeatedly asks “Billie, will you spell me?”. In another of this author’s stories, Johnnie Scully is accused of cheating in a game of High-Five by a character known as The Swede. In one of his stories, the cook, the correspondent, the oiler, and the captain are stranded in the title craft after a shipwreck. In his most famous novel, Jim Conklin’s heroic death is witnessed by Henry Fleming during the Civil War. For 10 points, name this author of “The Blue Hotel”, “The Open Boat” and The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane &lt;JL&gt;
4

147899-)
This character’s husband is recognizable because his left shoulder is higher than his right. This character constantly fears that her daughter, who throws flowers at her, is insufficiently human and too elf-like. After delivering an Election Day sermon, this character’s lover leaps with her onto a scaffold. Her child is named Pearl and her husband renames himself Roger Chillingworth when he moves to Puritan Boston. For 10 points, name this woman punished for her affair with Arthur Dimmesdale by having the title symbol sown into her dress in Nathaniel Hawthorne’s The Scarlet Letter.
Hester Prynne [accept either] &lt;JL&gt;
4

147912-)
One of his works describes a boy who "studied Latin like the violin", named Harold Wilson. In that work by him, Mary and Warren discuss taking in Silas, who claims he wants to "ditch the meadow" before discovering that he has died. Another of his poems describes how "leaf subsides to leaf / So Eden sank to grief". Another of his poems describes an object that "bent in the undergrowth", contrasting with an object that "was grassy and wanted" wear. That poem by him opens "Two roads diverged in a yellow wood". For 10 points, name this American poet of "Death of the Hired Man", "Nothing Gold Can Stay", and "The Road Not Taken".
Robert Lee Frost &lt;JL&gt;
4

147939-)
One play by this author concerns a plot to transform 1839 Wylie into the Bedford Hills Redevelopment Project by Roosevelt Hicks and Harmond Wilkes. 1839 Wylie was previously featured in a play about Aunt Ester, Gem of the Ocean, also by this playwright of Radio Golf. In one of his plays, Boy Willie wants to sell the title object treasured by Berenice in order to buy back land their ancestors had worked on as slaves. His most famous protagonist is a retired baseball player turned garbage man named Troy Maxson. For 10 points, name this African-American playwright who included the plays The Piano Lesson and Fences in his Pittsburgh Cycle.
August Wilson &lt;JL&gt;
4

147956-)
The protagonist of one story by this author asks if Whirly Wood, Connecticut is near Whirly Wood, Connecticut. One of his stories is a letter from a shell-shocked soldier to a precocious English girl he met in a restaurant after her church choir practice. In another story by this author of “For Esme – With Love and Squalor”, Sybil Carpenter is told of creatures that swim into holes but eat so much fruit that they are trapped by Seymour Glass. This author of “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” created a character who spends time with his sister Phoebe after being expelled from Pencey Prep. For 10 points, name this author who created Holden Caulfield in Catcher in the Rye.
J[erome] D[avid] Salinger &lt;JL&gt;
4

147978-)
This poem is set in a place where "each separate dying ember wrought its ghost", and its speaker hears the foot-falls of Seraphim who swing an "unseen censer". The speaker of this poem asks one figure in this poem whether "within the distant Aidenn" he shall clasp a certain "sainted maiden", and later tells his interlocutor to go back to "night's Plutonian shore". The speaker of this poem, who mourns his lost Lenore, hears a tapping at his chamber door at the opening of this poem, before the title creature perches on a bust of Pallas in, for 10 points, what poem about a bird that croaks "Nevermore", by Edgar Allan Poe?
"The Raven" &lt;JL&gt;
4

148000-)
In a dystopian novel by this author, the Everhard Manuscript details the rise and fall of the The Oligarchy. One of his protagonists is haunted by the warning of an old-timer not travel alone in bad weather, before dying of cold after feeling to perform the title action. The most famous protagonists of this author of The Iron Heel and “To Build a Fire” are a son of Kiche who is sold to Beauty Smith by Grey Beaver, and a dog who finally becomes free after the death of his last master John Thornton. For 10 points, name this creator of Buck, the author of White Fang and The Call of the Wild.
Jack London &lt;JL&gt;
4

148026-)
In one poem, this man compares the title animal to his “surrounded, detached” soul as “It launched forth filament, filament, filament, out of itself.” This man wrote “I know I am solid and sound,” “I know I am deathless,” and “I am the poet of the Body and I am the poet of the Soul,” in another poem, which also includes the line “I loafe and invite my soul.” In that longer work, this man penned such lines as “I sound my barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world.” For 10 points, name this American poet, who included poems like “A Noiseless Patient Spider” and “Song of Myself” in the collection Leaves of Grass.
Walt Whitman [Accept Walter] &lt;SJW&gt;
4

148030-)
Edmund Wilson wrote that this author had “something like a great style, if there could be such a thing as a great style which was … not … applied to any subject at all.” This author wrote about the “inevitable thumb” that “slowly chafes its puckered index toward us” and “a kitten in the wilderness” in one poem. This author criticized The Waste Land as “so damned dead,” and attempted to write an epic positive counterpart to it. This poet of (*) “Chaplinesque” described his lover’s “argosy of bright hair” in a cycle of poems dedicated to Emil Opffer. He wrote about bells that “swing I know not where” and “the matrix of the heart” in his last poem, “The Broken Tower.” This poet described a seagull “Over the chained bay waters Liberty” in a ‘proem’ that opens his magnum opus. For 10 points, name this author of Voyages, “At Melville’s Tomb,” and The Bridge.
Hart Crane
7

148032-)
This poem’s author later disavowed it as “trash” and altered its meaning by changing “or” to “and” in its most famous line. This poem’s narrator wants to “undo the folded lie” of the “sensual man-in-the-street.” This poem’s narrator highlights “ironic points of light wherever the Just exchange their messages” and describes himself as “Eros” and “dust.” This poem says that (*) “exiled Thucydides (thu-SID-id-ees) knew all that a speech can say about Democracy” before dismissing “the windiest militant trash.” This poem describes its audience as “children afraid of the night who have never been happy or good.” This poem’s narrator sits “in one of the dives / on Fifty-second Street / Uncertain and afraid” and concludes “We must love one another or die.” For 10 points, name this W. H. Auden poem named for the date World War II began.
“September 1, 1939”
7

148069-)
In a story by this author, Eleanor and Faraday marry as an intellectual partnership, living apart and meeting again in the summer, but both become unfoundedly jealous. This author of “A Point at Issue” wrote about a protagonist who keeps a picture of a “great tragedian” on her desk; that woman breaks a glass vase and stomps on her wedding ring before learning to paint and living in the “pigeon house.” Another of her protagonists decides to “live for (*) herself” and whispers “body and soul free!” after finding her husband has died; that woman, Louise Mallard, dies of heart disease on finding he is alive. This author’s most famous novel begins with a parrot shouting “Allez vous-en!” and ends with the drowning suicide of Edna Pontellier. For 10 points, name this author of “The Story of an Hour” and The Awakening.
Kate Chopin Bonuses:
7

148091-)
One poem set during this conflict describes “crank, pivot, and screw, and calculations” in “War now placed … among the trades and artisans.” Another poem from this war asks “Would the singer attempt to sing? Would the lawyer rise in the court?” One poem set during this conflict exclaims “What like a bullet can undeceive!” and ends by saying that “over them the swallows skim, while all is hushed” on the title battlefield. “Beat! Beat! (*) Drums” was written by an author who described his time treating this war’s wounded. In another poem, an old woman declares, “Shoot, if you must, this old gray head, / But spare your country’s flag” -- that poem is “Barbara Frietchie.” For 10 points, name this conflict written about by Walt Whitman and John Whittier, as well as Julia Ward Howe in her “Battle Hymn of the Republic.”
the American Civil War [grudgingly prompt on “The War of Northern Aggression” or “The War Between the States”]
7

148119-)
This author created a character who didn’t wear her wedding ring for two years after her husband got drunk and threw his ring into a peach orchard; she later reunites with her cheating husband, but the two are forced to move after Fat Linda comes home. The narrator of a story by this author tells a truck driver “I want to smother” while feeling him leer at her through a car window. In that story by this author, Claire is overcome with fear and attends the funeral of the girl her husband found dead in a (*) river. This author of “So Much Water So Close to Home” wrote about Frank Martin’s “drying-out facility” in “Where I’m Calling From” and about two couples who drink gin around an ice bucket while discussing Mel’s ex-wife Marjorie and Terri’s abusive ex Ed, who shot himself. For 10 points, name this author of “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love.”
Raymond Carver
7

148127-)
This author declared, “I don’t believe in ... aesthetics. As a general rule, they are no more than useless abstractions” in the preface to a poetry collection. He wrote about a dying man who has been in heaven “every second since the moment of his death.” “The End and the Beginning” appears in a collection where Abel asks Cain, “Was it you that killed me, or did I kill you?” This author of In Praise of Darkness dedicated to H.P. Lovecraft a story in which home renovations designed by Alexander Muir cause supernatural events. “There (*) Are More Things” appears in a collection by this author whose title story features a book in an unknown language with no beginning or end. In a story by this author, Carlos Daneiri’s cellar contains a point from which all places are visible. For 10 points, name this author of The Book of Sand and “The Aleph.”
Jorge Luis Borges
7

148131-)
In a story by this author, Hugh Vereker insults a monograph about him as “twaddle” without realizing its author is sitting next to him. This author wrote about an obsessive fanboy of the writer Mark Ambient, whose wife refuses to treat their sick son because she hates his novels. This writer believed that his most famous work could not be adapted into a play, since its best scene consisted of the protagonist experiencing a revelation while (*) sitting still in a chair. This author of “The Figure in the Carpet” and “The Author of Beltraffio” wrote a novel in which the protagonist exhorts “Live all you can” to Little Bilham before turning down Maria Gostrey. That man, Lambert Strether, goes to Europe to stop a romance. The title character marries Gilbert Osmond in his novel about Isabel Archer. For 10 points, name this author of The Ambassadors and The Portrait of a Lady.
Henry James
7

148159-)
In a chapter named for these objects, Geoffrey Braithwaite mocks Enid Starkie’s claim that Flaubert’s weak characterization is demonstrated by his supposed disregard toward these things. In a novel with this plural noun in the title, a girl has a nightmare about her mother chasing her through a field of daffodils. That mother, Martine, was raped in the cane fields, causing her to constantly check her daughter’s virginity. In an Edwidge Danticat novel about Sophie Caco, these objects are paired with (*) “Breath” and “Memory.” Another novel named after these things begins by describing “ships at a distance” and compares a pear tree to the sexuality of the protagonist, who is forced to shoot her husband Tea Cake after a rabid dog bites him during a hurricane. For 10 points, name these body parts that, in a novel by Zora Neale Hurston, “Were Watching God.”
eyes [accept Emma Bovary’s eyes or Breath, Eyes, Memory or Their Eyes Were Watching God]
7

148189-)
A character in this play introduces himself as a “permanent transient,” and is described as “not poorly dressed, but carelessly.” It’s neither Hamlet nor based on Hamlet, but two characters in it argue about the differences between “north,” “due north,” and “northerly.” A man in this play calls himself a “h-o-m-o-s-e-x-u-a-l” and says, “We neither love nor hurt because we do not try to reach each other” and asks, “Was trying to feed the (*) dog an act of love?” while musing on his attempts to kill his landlady’s dog with poisoned meat. One of the characters in this play repeats “Oh my god” while the other asks “Could I have planned all this?” after impaling himself on a knife. For 10 points, name this play about Peter and Jerry that takes place around a bench in Central Park, the first play by Edward Albee.
The Zoo Story [accept “Edward Albee’s At Home at the Zoo” or “Peter &amp; Jerry” until “first play”) Bonuses:
7

148190-)
This author worries about carnies who spin his “Native Companion” friend around on the Zipper so they can look up her skirt in an essay about the Illinois State Fair. Another essay by this author includes a footnote railing against the “Professional Smile” and describes the mean-spirited hypnotist Nigel Ellery and the waiter Tibor. This author described the stress of “stay[ing] conscious and alive” despite “petty, frustrating crap” in a commencement speech titled (*) “This is Water.” An essay by this author begins by listing things he has seen, including “500 upscale Americans danc[ing] the Electric Slide” and “intensities of blue beyond very bright blue.” One of his essays contemplates the ethics of boiling animals alive at a Maine festival. For 10 points, name this author of “A Supposedly Fun Thing I’ll Never Do Again” and “Consider the Lobster,” who also wrote the doorstopper Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace [or DFW, prompt on “Dallas Fort Worth”]
7

148194-)
This author claimed that recent novelists had “shown us what it is that we certainly could not do, but as certainly, perhaps, do not wish to do” in “Modern Novels.” This author claimed that human character changed “on or about December 1910” in an essay about “Mrs. Brown” that attacks author Arnold Bennett. One of this author’s books ends with a mother asking “What am I to do with these?” while holding her (*) dead son’s shoes. This author wrote about Paul searching for Minta’s brooch on the beach in a novel where a little boy carefully cuts shapes out of a magazine while thinking about how much he hates his father, a “tyrannical” intellectual based on this author’s father, the academic Leonard Stephen. For 10 points, name this author who created the painter Lily Briscoe in an “elegy” written to exorcise the memories of her parents, To the Lighthouse.
Virginia Woolf
7

148196-)
Description acceptable. Avocado accused one of these works of plagiarism after discovering quotes from The Hidden Land by Pamela Dean. After her claim to be the author of one of these works was debunked, Rose Christo lost a book deal for her memoir, in which she claimed she had written one of these works to get publicity for her missing brother. Many of these works include a marriage law, depictions of a character in leather pants, or the protagonist being revealed to have a (*) female twin. An often-mocked one of these works used ideas from the site LessWrong and focused on the title character’s “Methods of Rationality.” “Tom Bombadil” oddly appears in one of these works, as do “Snap” and Diablo. The goth Ebony Dark’ness Dementia Raven Way appears in “My Immortal,” which is, for 10 points, what type of fan work based on a series by J.K. Rowling?
Harry Potter fanfiction [prompt on “fanfiction”]
7

148202-)
Young girls in this play sing “dress of jasmine, tie of crystal” while winding a skein of wool and asking it “what would you be?” Another song in this play about a dying stallion who won’t drink water is sung by a woman who criticizes her son for snapping at a girl who rhapsodizes over patterned silk stockings. A monologue in this play begins “white swan in the river, the eye of cathedrals, false dawn in the leaves.” A man asks his mother for a knife in this play to cut grapes, but this causes her to remember the (*) death of her husband. The Moon speaks in this play in which three woodcutters describe the hunt for Leonardo Felix, who runs off into the forest to elope with an engaged woman. For 10 points, name this first play in the “Rural Trilogy” by Federico Garcia Lorca about the Bride and Groom.
Blood Wedding [or Bodas de Sangre or Wedding of Blood]
7

148215-)
This play’s stage directions describe a room in which “weariness has … won” and “everything has been polished … too often.” One man in this play complains that when men say they have a dream, women just respond, “Eat your eggs.” Bev and Russ grieve Kenneth’s suicide in a prequel-slash-sequel to this play by Bruce Norris. A girl is forced to repeat, “In my mother’s house there is still God” after declaring her intent to go to (*) med school in this play. Bobo reveals that Willy has absconded with money in this play, in which Joseph Asagai tries to convince Beneatha to move to Africa. Instead of purchasing a liquor store, a $10,000 life insurance check is used to buy a house for Ruth and Walter in the all-white Clybourne Park neighborhood. For 10 points, name this work about the Younger family which takes its name from “A Dream Deferred,” by Lorraine Hansberry.
A Raisin in the Sun
7

148247-)
In this work, after some children plan to stab one of their classmates with nails, one girl tells him, “Your father is a murderer but it’s not your fault, so I forgive you.” Because her father has a Cadillac, her family’s maid doesn’t eat with them, and her grandmother’s knees hurt, this novel’s protagonist wants to be a prophet. The narrator is briefly homeless after Markus leaves her, and for her college thesis, she has to design a religious-themed amusement park with her husband (*) Reza, whom she divorces. The narrator’s parents participate in protests in this work until missile strikes cause them to send her to a boarding school in Vienna. The protagonist describes leaving her grandmother in this book, which begins with the section “The Veil.” For 10 points, name this graphic memoir following Marjane Satrapi’s childhood during the Iranian revolution.
Persepolis
7

148249-)
An author of this ethnicity reminisces about covering all her school paintings in black and remaining silent during kindergarten, then bullying another girl who also refuses to talk. One character of this ethnicity is fired for putting wind-up toys in sexual positions with Barbie dolls. An author of this ethnicity wrote about a girl who falls into a lake during a festival and realizes that one of its performers is a cross-dresser; that girl later helps Lena to leave her husband. This is the ethnicity of the author of (*) Tripmaster Monkey, who wrote about her mother’s stories of white “ghosts” and the “No Name Woman” in her memoir The Woman Warrior. This is the ethnicity of an author who wrote about four mother-daughter pairs playing mahjong in The Joy Luck Club. For 10 points, name this ethnicity of Maxine Hong Kingston and Amy Tan.
Chinese-American [prompt on partial answer or on “Asian” or “Asian-American”] Bonuses:
7

148250-)
Characters in this novel pretend to impersonate J. P. Morgan and military officers before one asks, “What’s a left flank?” A man in this novel calls another man “a furious blaze of liquid life-energy” and asks when “the delicate balance between social order and thirsty aspiration” will topple skyscrapers. In this novel, men watch a movie preview in which a society girl runs with her Communist boyfriend on the beach; that same couple later makes the protagonist take them to (*) Charlie’s Kitchen Shack. This novel’s protagonist scares his sister Vera with a rat after killing it with a skillet. James Baldwin named an essay collection of “Notes” after this novel, in which an earring is found in a furnace, leading Boris Max to defend a man who kills his girlfriend Bessie. For 10 points, name this novel in which Mary Dalton is smothered by Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright.
Native Son
7

148279-)
Two characters in this novel are described as “throw-away people, two lawless outlaws” while swaddling a baby on the banks of a river. This novel states, “It was not a story to pass on” to explain why people forgot its title character. A man in this novel loves his “Thirty-Mile Woman” because she gathered up his “jumbled-up pieces” and gave them back to him. Another character in this novel follows a trail of blossoming flowers after escaping from a (*) chain gang. After the protagonist of this novel despairs that her “best thing” has left her, her lover tells her, “You your best thing.” The protagonist of this novel attacks Mr. Bodwin, mistaking him for the abusive schoolteacher whom she had run away from after a brutal whipping. For 10 points, name this novel in which Sethe is haunted by the title daughter she killed to keep out of slavery, by Toni Morrison.
Beloved
7

148395-)
The Filipino film Terror is a Man is basically set in this location. A film titled for this location resulted in angry director John Frankenheimer’s one-liner “Will Rogers never met Val Kilmer.” In another appearance, the protagonist meets the servant M’ling and after being left here, ends up staying with a man named Montgomery. A movie about this location featured an UN negotiator arriving here and meeting the title character, played by Marlon Brando. In a novel, Edward (*) Prendick ends up at this location, where he meets the Sayer of the Law and a man who had been disgraced for running vivisection experiments in London. For 10 points, name this island run by a namesake scientist who creates human-like beings from animals, a fictional place created by H.G. Wells.
The Island of Doctor Moreau [or Noble’s Isle, or Island of Lost Souls]
9

148493-)
This story begins with Alexander Adell and Bertram Lupov having a discussion about running under a tree after getting caught in a rain shower. Later in this story, characters discuss journeying to X-23, and a character named Zee Prime begins collecting interstellar hydrogen. It first begins on May 21, 2061, during a conversation between two attendants of Multivac, and it ends with matter and energy having ended. All through this story, characters receive the message that there is (*) “INSUFFICIENT DATA FOR MEANINGFUL ANSWER,” until the final scene in which AC says “LET THERE BE LIGHT!”, implicitly recreating the universe. For 10 points, name this Isaac Asimov story in which people continually ask computers the title query, which is “how can the universe’s entropy be decreased?”
“The Last Question”
9

148511-)
This character is "Saying Nothing" in a book where Cambridge lecturer Andy Martin observes his author writing a new novel about him, each one of which is started on the September 1st anniversary of the author being fired from a TV show. A recent novel sends this character to Hamburg after attending the "Impact on Recent Forensic Innovation on Inter-Agency Cooperation" training course. He struggles to escape an underground complex about to be ignited with jet fuel in an incident ignored in the follow-up book, Worth Dying For. He has never shaken hands with his touch-phobic love interest Frances L. Neagley. Night School is one of the novels set before this drifter has left the (*) Army Military Police Corps. His first film opens with a sniper in Pittsburgh, and in the next film he suspects Susan Turner is being framed for killing some soldiers in Afghanistan. For 10 points, name this character created by Lee Child and played on film by Tom Cruise.
Jack Reacher [or Jack Reacher]
9

148514-)
This series opens with a blond haired infant climbing over a heap of baby corpses. One scene in this series cuts from the title character getting formally dressed to the tune of "Sexy and I Know It" to a shot accompanied by John Tavener's "Song for Athene". A scheme to catch the title character of this show in an affair with Esther fails when Esther becomes pregnant after being (*) forgiven by her target. The title character of this show was abandoned by his Hippie parents to an orphanage. Kurtwell, an accused pedophile, is banished to Alaska in one of the final episodes of its first season. Stefano Accorsi plays the Italian Prime Minister on this show and Diane Keaton is Sister Mary, the woman who has raised the title character. For 10 points, name this Paolo Sorrentino HBO series where Jude Law plays the pontiff of Rome.
The Young Pope
9

148557-)
In 1957, Harpo Marx delivered a wordless pitch for Pepsi during a "spectacular" rendition of this musical. As a kid, I saw a Tony-winning revival of this musical where Bernadette Peters, Tom Wopat and Ron Holgate starred in the main roles. A song written for this musical which titles a 1954 Ethel Merman film discusses how even though "your pa and ma have parted, you're broken-hearted, but you go on" and opens by noting how "The (*) butcher, the baker, the grocer, the clerk / are secretly unhappy men because" they don't receive applause. Dolly is caught tampering with the title character's equipment before a match on Governor's Island in this musical, where two characters plan to get married in "An Old-Fashioned Wedding". "There's No Business Like Show Business" and "Anything You Can Do" were written for this show, whose characters include Pawnee Bill and Chief Sitting Bull. For 10 points, name this Irving Berlin musical about a female sharpshooter.
Annie Get Your Gun
9

148565-)
His most recent novel has a character who considers herself "part of a hipster reverse migration" from Brooklyn to the suburbs of Haddington; that novel's title character, Eve, takes a Gender and Society class and becomes obsessed with amateur porn after receiving a text message "U r my MILF!". He wrote of a divorced sex-ed instructor in The Abstinence Teacher and wrote Mrs. Fltecher. One of his characters takes to obsessively watching the kid's show loved by her missing children and is named (*) Nora Durst; Nora develops a relationship with a mayor of Mapleton who has to deal with the Guilty Remnant. His best-known novel was adapted into an acclaimed but little-watched HBO series co-created by Lost's Damon Lindelof and starring Justin Theroux; that novel centers on the mysterious disappearance of 2% of the world's population. For 10 points, name this author of The Leftovers.
Tom Perrotta [or Thomas R. Perrotta]
9

148570-)
In this show's final scene, the protagonist almost destroys a vase which a secretary had repaired in the first episode. The Jewish protagonist of this show pretends he's giving a plot description to a priest in a confessional after he accidentally kills a man. A female character adds a clause into her contract that gives her the right to see men's penises and is secretly the daughter of her African American maid. One character on this show commits suicide from a balcony after urinating onto Tomas Szep ("Zep"). Lily Collins's character on this show hatches an idea to force the hand of George Gyssling by imagining an oppressive state very similar to Nazi Germany; that project is killed in favor of the debut of (*) Sally Sweet despite having Fritz Lang as a director. Kelsey Grammar plays studio boss Pat Brady on this program. For 10 points, name this Amazon series based on an unfinished Hollywood novel by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Last Tycoon
9

148581-)
The protagonist of one of this author's novels declares, "Eating nothing is easy. Eating something but not very much is an ever-loving bitch." Her debut novel centers on a 60-year-old anthropologist who has her first love experience with a grad student and is titled The Female of the Species. A recent work by this author is titled for a jazz pianist named Edison who visits Pandora, the novel's narrator. One of her characters writes a children's book about a kid named Spacer who fails to win a sack race at his school; that novel is titled The Post-Birthday World. In a Guardian article, this woman attacked the fat-pride movement for enabling her brother to reach 330 pounds, a theme expanded in her 2013 novel, Big Brother. Her best known work ends with the revelation that the protagonist's husband was killed on the same day that her son, the title character, carried out his (*) school shooting. For 10 points, name this author of We Need to Talk About Kevin.
Lionel Shriver
9

148647-)
A poem compares one of these animals to a person who is “part woman, three parts a child,” because she scans to ensure “that nobody looks” when her “feet / Practice a tinker shuffle / Picked up on a street.” A poem by William Blake asks one of these animals, “art not thou / A man like me?” William Butler Yeats described how the minds of Julius Caesar, Helen, and Michelangelo “moved upon silence,” like one of these animals “upon the stream,” in his poem titled for a “Long-Legged” one. The speaker of a poem numbered either 465 or 591 “Signed away / What portion of me be / Assignable,” when “there interposed” one of these animals. In that poem, one of these animals arrives with a “Blue – uncertain – stumbling” sound when “The Stillness in the Room / Was like the Stillness in the Air.” For 10 points, the speaker of an Emily Dickinson poem heard what animal “buzz” when she died?
fly [accept long-legged fly; prompt on insects] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
7

148657-)
The cover of Sherry Turkle’s book Reclaiming Conversation is a reference to an anecdote in this other book, in which the narrator writes that he and his friend “gradually shoved our chairs farther apart till they touched the wall in opposite corners.” This book’s use of “heroic writing” was analyzed in a book by Stanley Cavell titled for its “senses.” This work discusses the “fire and smoke” emitted by the “nostrils” of the “iron horse” while describing the railroad in its chapter “Sounds.” The anonymous “Poet” frequently referenced in this book is generally thought to be its author’s friend Ellery Channing. This book opens with a chapter titled “Economy,” which describes its author’s decision to live for two years on land owned by Ralph Waldo Emerson near the title body of water. For 10 points, name this transcendentalist memoir by Henry David Thoreau.
Walden; or Life in the Woods [accept Senses of Walden] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
7

148670-)
This author’s attempts to efface the “realistic sources” of his works represent an “intent of undoing,” according to Stanley Gontarski. This author analyzed the “total objects” created by Pierre Tal-Coat in a set of correspondences with Georges Duthuit (“doo-TWEE”) published as Three Dialogues. A character created by this man describes how a “gravedigger puts on the forceps” before claiming that “habit is the great deadener.” After her parasol catches on fire, a character created by this author opens a music-box that plays a waltz from The Merry Widow. That character created by this author talks to her husband Willie while buried in a mound of earth. In his best-known work, two characters discuss whether to hang themselves from a lone tree that appears onstage. For 10 points, name this author of Happy Days, an Irishman who created the characters of Vladimir and Estragon in his play Waiting for Godot.
Samuel Beckett &lt;Drama&gt;
7

148693-)
In Epistemology of the Closet, Eve Sedgwick writes that this novel anticipates the discourse surrounding the AIDS epidemic by presenting a fantasy of life “after the homosexual.” A character in this novel repeatedly murmurs its protagonist’s name as he bleeds out from a musket wound on the shore of Gibraltar. The protagonist declares that “I am sleepy, and the oozy weeds about me twist,” in the ballad titled for him “in the Darbies” that ends this novel. In this novel, the old man Dansker warns the protagonist that “Jimmy Legs… is down on you.” The title character of this novel overcomes his stutter to bellow his final words, “God bless Captain Vere!” seconds before being hanged for killing his master-at-arms Claggart. For 10 points, name this unfinished novel about a sailor accused of mutiny, written by Herman Melville.
Billy Budd [or Billy Budd, Sailor: An Inside Narrative; or Billy Budd, Foretopman] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148702-)
An Italian prisoner in this novel paces his cell floor on his knees, licking the feet of a brass figurine of Christ. Sobered by this novel’s events, a woman gives her grandson Russell a dime in its final scene so that he can buy ice cream. The protagonist flees the wreckage of a car that had barreled into a pile of lumber after running over a little girl at the end of this novel’s first book, which focuses primarily on his relationship with a shopgirl whom he buys a fur coat in exchange for sexual favors. A woman in this novel drowns in the Big Moose Lake after her lover accidentally clocks her in the face with a camera, capsizing their boat. The protagonist of this novel almost marries Sondra Finchley, but he is tried and convicted for the murder of Roberta Alden. For 10 points, name this novel that features the execution of Clyde Griffiths, by Theodore Dreiser.
An American Tragedy &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148725-)
This novel enjoins the reader to consult a “metaphysical professor” should they “ever be athirst in the great American desert,” since “as everyone knows, meditation and water are wedded forever.” The narrator of this novel contrasts his quiet inclinations with the “philosophical flourish” with which “Cato throws himself upon his sword.” It opens with an “etymology” across thirteen languages for a word that appears in this novel’s full title, followed by a series of “extracts,” compiled by a “sub-sub-librarian,” of that word’s appearances in past literature. In its first numbered chapter, “Loomings,” the narrator confesses that “whenever I find myself growing grim about the mouth; whenever it is a damp, drizzly, November in my soul… then, I account it high time to get to sea as soon as I can.” For 10 points, name this novel that opens “Call me Ishmael,” written by Herman Melville.
Moby Dick; or, The Whale &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148738-)
This author set a poem where “the wind falls in like stones / from the whitehearted water and when we touch / we enter touch entirely.” In another poem, this author described a type of death that leaves “the page of the book carelessly open,” the “phone off the hook,” and “the love, whatever it was, an infection.” This poet declared: “Whether you are pretty or not, I outlive you, / bend down my strange face to yours and forgive you,” at the end of an elegy cataloging the possessions left behind by her deceased father. This author of “All My Pretty Ones” and “Wanting to Die” included a poem about menstruating at the age of forty in her Pulitzer-winning collection Live or Die. For 10 points, name this Confessional poet whose collection The Awful Rowing Towards God was posthumously published following her 1974 suicide by carbon monoxide poisoning.
Anne Sexton &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
7

148778-)
A book by this author discusses the spiritual activism of Mildred Lisette Norman, or Peace Pilgrim, in a chapter on taking a pilgrimage to the Santuario de Chimayó (“san-too-AH-ree-oh de chee-mah-YO”) in New Mexico. An essay by this author describes a nuclear physicist joking about a naked woman who ran out of her house, screaming that her husband was going to kill her. This author analyzed the urban landscape of San Francisco in books such as Infinite City and Hollow City. An essay by this author opens with an anecdote in which “Mr. Very Important” discusses this author’s book on Eadweard Muybridge (“edward MY-bridge”), River of Shadows. In 2008, this author published an essay on TomDispatch dealing with the impact of male condescension. For 10 points, name this American writer best-known for authoring Wanderlust: A History of Walking and the essay “Men Explain Things To Me.”
Rebecca Solnit &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
7

148780-)
In a poem by this author, “the darkened ghosts of our old comedy” march with lanterns in “the tomb of heaven.” This poet wrote that “the wise man avenges” a fallen autumn leaf by “building his city in snow,” at the end of a poem whose racist title likens its fifty constituent vignettes to “decorations… in a cemetery.” In another poem, this author wrote that, although she “strews the leaves / Of sure obliteration on our paths,” “Death is the mother of beauty.” Helen Vendler posited that a funeral wake is the setting of this author’s poem in which a woman’s “horny feet protrude” to “show how cold she is, and dumb.” That poem by this author indirectly requests “the muscular one” to “whip / In kitchen cups concupiscent curds,” and begins: “Call the roller of big cigars.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Sunday Morning” and “The Emperor of Ice Cream.”
Wallace Stevens (The first two poems are “On Heaven Considered as a Tomb” and “Like Decorations in a Nigger Cemetery.”) &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
7

148801-)
The protagonist of a novel in this genre entertains fellow passengers on a stalled train by describing frogs being hunted en masse to supply restaurants with legs. The compassionate hero Winnetou stars in several popular German-language novels in this genre written by Karl May. A novel in this genre ends with the protagonists toppling a giant boulder to thwart several polygamous Mormons in hot pursuit. The drifters Art Croft and Gil Carter get caught up in the hanging of three innocent men by a mob suspecting them of being thieves in a novel in this genre by Walter Van Tilburg Clark titled The Ox-Bow Incident. In honor of the author of the first major novel in this genre, The Virginian, the Owen Wister Award is bestowed upon outstanding authors of these books. For 10 points, name this literary genre of Zane Grey’s The Riders of the Purple Sage and numerous novels by Louis L’Amour.
Western novels [prompt on adventure novels] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148821-)
The grandmother of one of this author’s protagonists jabs him in the face with a crucifix to exorcise the devil she thinks has caused his horrific acne. After the Texan nymphomaniac Joyce divorces him for being unable to sexually satisfy her, the protagonist of a novel by him moves back in with the beer-bellied Betty, whom this author based on the love of his life, Jane Cooney Baker. The FBI kept a file on this author for crude newspaper columns, which were eventually published as Notes of a Dirty Old Man. John Martin offered him a lifetime gig writing for Black Sparrow Press, on the condition that this author quit his menial job as a mail carrier, which he had detailed in his debut novel. This author created the slobby, comically oversexed alter-ego Henry Chinaski to serve as the protagonist of his novels Post Office and Ham on Rye. For 10 points, name this misanthropic, alcoholic Los Angeles author.
(Henry) Charles Bukowski [or Heinrich Karl Bukowski] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148851-)
In a story by this author, two characters get into an argument about whether “houses of refuge” are staffed by people or not. One character created by this author recites a poem he learned as a child that begins with the line “A soldier of the Legion lay dying in Algiers.” A character created by this author retrieves a bottle of whiskey from a coat stored under a bed after forcibly showing a picture of his dead daughter to a former tailor. Four characters repeatedly murmur “Funny they don’t see us” in a story by this man, which opens with the line: “None of them knew the color of the sky.” In that story by this man, the correspondent, the oiler, and the cook are among those cast adrift in the title vessel. For 10 points, name this American author of “The Blue Hotel” and “The Open Boat,” who also wrote The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
7

148872-)
A character in this novel wails the phrase “whywhywhy” for years after the death of her son. Two characters in this novel imagine refusing to attend a consecration ceremony because they are “not reconciled,” a phrase which titles this book’s film adaptation. The day she leaves the mental hospital where she had stayed for eighteen years, a woman in this novel steals a pistol from a gardener, fires into a parade, and mistakenly wounds a minister. This novel ends with its central family cutting into a cake shaped like a building to celebrate its patriarch’s 80th birthday. To punish “buffaloes” who collaborated with the Nazi regime, the protagonist of this novel engineers the destruction of St. Anthony’s Abbey, which had been designed by his father Heinrich. For 10 points, identify this novel titled for the pastime of architect Robert Faehmel (“FEH-mul”) written by Heinrich Böll.
Billiards at Half-Past Nine [or Billard um halb zehn] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148887-)
A work by this author describes the “Mayblossom Senility” of a crowd of people who “burnt out early or maybe just not much to burn in the first place.” Later in that work by this author, he meets an English artist and they search for a face he calls “the mask of the whiskey gentry” before witnessing their picks of Holy Land and Silent Screen lose to the long-shot Dust Commander. Ralph Steadman contributed illustrations that were captioned “Unscrambling D-Day” for that work by this author, who used a so-called “mojo wire” to send in reports about the nomination of George McGovern. This author of “The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved” fictionalized himself as the journalist Raoul Duke in a novel first published, like much of this author’s work, in Rolling Stone magazine. For 10 points, name this “Gonzo” journalist and author of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.
Hunter S. Thompson &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
7

148889-)
The speaker of a surrealist poem by Gregory Corso consoles a weeping performer of this activity by telling him that “Randall Jarrell thinks you’re a poet!” In a sure reference to masturbation, Robert Frost’s “Birches” describes “some boy too far from town to learn” this activity, “whose only play was what he found himself.” In a poem by William Carlos Williams, a crowd watching this activity “is moved uniformly / by a spirit of uselessness / which delights them.” In a poem titled for this activity’s “Sad Lexicon,” Franklin Pierce Adams immortalized the “saddest of possible words / ‘Tinker to Evers to Chance.’” The best-known poem about this activity observes that “somewhere men are laughing, and somewhere / children shout,” but that there was “no joy in Mudville” when the title character “struck out.” For 10 points, name this sport, the subject of Ernest Thayer’s “Casey at the Bat.”
baseball [prompt on the ball game; prompt on sports] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
7

148903-)
At the end of this novel, a man imagines teaching a map-reading class in which he overlays a coordinate system over a photo of Betty Grable in a bathing suit. In a moment of defiance in this novel, a man places a single cigarette butt on an immaculately-kept tent floor. A boy smolders with rage ever since the day his father had stolen his kill on a deer hunting trip, as recounted in the second of the “Time Machine” segments that provide the backstory for this novel’s characters. Tallulah Bankhead called the author of this novel “the young man who doesn’t know how to spell fuck,” because this novel uses the word “fug” instead. After intentionally leading Lieutenant Hearn into an ambush, the sadistic Sergeant Croft orders the surviving men of this novel to scale Mount Anaka. For 10 points, a platoon of soldiers fight the Japanese on the island of Anopopei in what World War II novel by Norman Mailer?
The Naked and the Dead &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148918-)
This author mentioned “an unimportant clerk” who writes “I DO NOT LIKE MY WORK” on a “pink official form” in a poem that ends with “vast / herds of reindeer moving across / Miles and miles of golden moss, / Silently and very fast.” A poem by this author cuts between a classical scene of “White flower-garlanded heifers, / Libation and sacrifice,” and a stark modern setting of “barbed wire enclosing an arbitrary spot / Where bored officials lounged (one cracked a joke).” This author of “The Fall of Rome” described how “when he laughed, respectable senators burst with laughter, / And when he cried the little children died in the streets” in his “Epitaph of a Tyrant.” He wrote that “Exiled Thucydides knew / All that a speech can say / About Democracy” in a poem that describes powerless “dense commuters” repeating meaningless vows, and proclaims that “We must love one another or die.” For 10 points, name this English poet of “September 1, 1939.”
W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt; CAN BE READ TO ANYONE
7

148937-)
A poem tells this person how we “return home to our own Hearths / to read you,” asks him “if infinity / Be still the same” and calls this person “O Saunterer on free ways still ahead!” This person who, in another poem, is called “a kosmos, of Manhattan the son” is the subject of “Cape Hatteras,” part of Hart Crane’s The Bridge. In a poem addressed to him, the speaker feels “absurd” after saying “I touch your book and dream of our odyssey” and asking him “The doors close in an hour. Which (*) way does your beard point tonight?” This man, who is “eyeing the grocery boys” in Allen Ginsberg’s “A Supermarket in California,” wrote a poem in which he sounds his “barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world.” For 10 points, what American poet included “Song of Myself” in his Leaves of Grass?
Walt Whitman [Walter Whitman] &lt;RY, Poetry&gt;
6

148966-)
James Morris’s The Ambulance Drivers profiles the friendship that this author made with Ernest Hemingway during World War I. Sinclair Lewis declared this author had created a “novel of utmost importance” by using interweaved narrative to tell stories of people like Bud Koppening, who hangs himself on the Brooklyn Bridge. Quotations of popular songs like “Saint Louis Blues” appear throughout a novel by this author that opens as ace Charlie Henderson returns home. A novel by this author ends describing a death of a (*) World War I soldier in “The Body of an American.” “Camera eyes” and “newsreels” are used in a set of novels by this author of Manhattan Transfer. For 10 points, the books 1919, The 42nd Parallel, and Big Money are in what author’s U.S.A. trilogy?
John Dos Passos &lt;WA, LongFic&gt; IF THE GAME IS TIED AT THIS POINT, READ A QUESTION FROM THE TIEBREAKER PACKET. THEN, FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS IN THE TIEBREAKER PACKET. Bonuses
6

148968-)
A character in this play recalls that, while sailing, he felt like he “became the sun, the hot sand, green seaweed anchored to a rock,” and wished that he had been born “as a seagull or a fish.” In the same scene from this play, that character’s father regrets allowing himself to be typecast in exchange for money. A woman in this play has hands that are afflicted with (*) rheumatism and complains to Cathleen about the sounding of a foghorn. While that woman in this play was pregnant with Eugene, who died of measles, Doctor Hardy’s prescription made her become addicted to morphine. For 10 points, James, Edmund, Jamie, and Mary are members of the Tyrone family in what play by Eugene O’Neill?
Long Day’s Journey into Night &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
6

148975-)
This character’s observation of a man and woman “squirting water out of their mouths” is analyzed in Harold Bloom’s 1990 collection of essays on the novel he appears in. This character observes that a school’s promise to create “clear-thinking young men” is “strictly for the birds.” While discussing Isak Dinesen’s Out of Africa, this character notes that “I’m quite illiterate, but I read a lot” before explaining what (*) “knocks [him] out” about books. After getting drunk, he goes to Central Park to watch the ducks that he discussed with the cab driver Mr. Horwitz. This character’s use of the phrase “screw up” helped popularize it in English. He treasures a baseball mitt with green ink writing that belonged to his brother Allie. For 10 points, a school of “phonies” is resented by what J. D. Salinger protagonist?
Holden Caulfield [accept either underlined portion] &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
6

148999-)
B. J. Leggett wrote that a poem about this animal indicates its “perspectivism” more directly than the author’s poem “Of the Surface of Things,” and he read Nietzsche into the line “it marked the edge / of one of many circles.” In that poem, the sight of these animals in a “green light” makes the “bawds of euphony” “cry out sharply.” “It was evening all afternoon” according to a poem about this animal, which states “I know noble accents / And (*) lucid, inescapable rhythms.” In that poem, this animal “rode over Connecticut,” is “one” with “a man and a woman,” and is seen “among twenty snowy mountains.” For 10 points, Wallace Stevens wrote of “Thirteen Ways of Looking at” what animal?
blackbird [prompt on bird or avian] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
6

149008-)
This historical period is profiled in a novel about a man who lives off oranges in the Bunker Hill hotel, the second novel in the “Bandini Quartet” by John Fante. The line “men who have created new fruits in the world cannot create a system whereby their fruits may be eaten” is spoken while living at Weedpatch during this historical period, which is profiled in a novel about the alcoholic Francis Phelan. William Kennedy’s (*) Ironweed is set during this period of time, as is a novel that ends with a sick man being breastfed by a woman who gave birth to the stillborn child of Connie Rivers. Rose of Sharon appears in a novel set during this period in which a strike leads to the death of faithless preacher Jim Casy. For 10 points, The Grapes of Wrath depicts what economic downturn?
The Great Depression [accept the 1930s; prompt on less specific answers like 20th century] &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
6

149015-)
In T. S. Eliot’s “The Dry Salvages,” this location is said to be “sullen” and “untamed” and is called a “strong brown God.” A work titled for this location includes the section “Frescoes from the Past” and recounts its narrator’s time under Horace Bixby as a “cub.” A deaf-mute uses April Fool’s day jokes to trick people journeying along this geographic feature in the novel The Confidence-Man by Herman Melville. The author’s experience as a pilot is detailed in an 1883 work titled for (*) “Life on” this location. A journey along it is joined by a pair of con artists who pose as King Louis XVII and the Duke of Nonesuch and begins after a slave runs away from Mrs. Watson’s house. For 10 points, name this river that Jim floats down on a raft in Huck Finn.
Mississippi River [accept river on the first clue and prompt thereafter; accept Life on the Mississippi; accept “Old Man River”] &lt;JM, OtherLit&gt;
6

149039-)
A character created by an author with this surname writes the story “In a Glass” after looking in the mirror and finds money lining his suit pocket after a three-day alcoholic binge. The Dudleys are comically meticulous caretakers of an establishment created by an author with this surname. That author also created Dr. Montague, who forces Eleanor Vance to drive a car using telekinesis. This surname identifies the author of The Lost Weekend as well as the author of a story detailing (*) “the morning of June 27th” in which Old Man Warner admonishes a “pack of young fools” who draw slips of paper to determine Tess’s death. For 10 points, give this surname of Shirley, the author of The Haunting of Hill House and “The Lottery.”
Jackson [accept Charles R. Jackson or Shirley Jackson] &lt;JM, OtherLit&gt;
6

149044-)
This author wrote a novel about the schoolteacher Mr. Churchill, who is urged to write a romance by the title character, a preacher named Kavanagh. This author wrote a poem whose subject lived a life “more benedight” than any legend in a book. This author wrote about a woman who tends to the sick in Philadelphia, where she reunites with her love on his deathbed. In a poem by this author, a woodpecker helps a (*) hero kill the evil magician Pearl-Feather. The line “This is the forest primeval” opens another poem by this author, who wrote an epic whose Ojibwe hero mourns the death of Minnehaha. For 10 points, what poet of The Song of Hiawatha wrote “Paul Revere’s Ride”?
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow &lt;RY, Poetry&gt;
6

149047-)
Panna Bhatt gets offended by one of this man’s plays in “A Wife’s Story” by Bharati Mukherjee. This author wrote a play that opens with a man fantasizing about having sex with a woman who commits arson mid-coitus. A character created by this author shouts “I meet gestapo tactics!” after Baylen interrogates him. In a play by this author, a man says that he’ll go downtown to Mitch and Murray after James (*) Williamson ruins a deal between John Lingk and Ricky Roma. This author of Sexual Perversity in Chicago wrote a play that opens in a Chinese restaurant, where men discuss real estate leads. For 10 points, name this American playwright who wrote Glengarry Glen Ross.
David (Alan) Mamet &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
6

149066-)
In a story by this author, Ralph locks himself in the bathroom after he finds out about his wife Marian’s infidelity. Nathan Englander borrowed the title of a short story by this author for his own collection of short stories titled after Anne Frank. A group of friends discuss how Ed failed to kill himself by ingesting rat poison in one of this author’s stories, in which the narrator describes how he could (*) “hear his heart beating” and the “human noise” he and his friends were making. This author of “Will You Please be Quiet, Please?” wrote about Mel, Terri, Nick and Laura discussing the title emotion at a dinner party in his most famous story. For 10 points, name this author of What We Talk About When We Talk About Love.
Raymond (Clevie) Carver &lt;SB, Short&gt; IF THE GAME IS TIED AT THIS POINT, READ A QUESTION FROM THE TIEBREAKER PACKET. THEN, FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS IN THE TIEBREAKER PACKET. Bonuses
6

149084-)
As an infant, a boy in this city is conditioned to fear cans of Pabst Blue Ribbon and issues of The Economist in a version of the “Little Albert” experiment conducted by his psychologist father. A costume designer befriends a former hotel manager who came to this city from Iowa to escape his memory of Romola Martin. The city of Dickens is an “agrarian ghetto” of this metropolis where the protagonist reinstates segregation and slavery in (*) Paul Beatty’s novel The Sellout. A character who intends to paint a masterpiece titled “The Burning of” this city witnesses a riot started by Homer Simpson. For 10 points, what city is the setting of Nathanael West’s The Day of the Locust, an example of a “Hollywood novel”?
Los Angeles [or LA; accept Dickens, California until “Iowa” is read] &lt;RY, LongFic&gt;
6

149089-)
David Halversand, a character from a novel written in this city, is often interpreted as a portrait of the writer’s art critic brother Leo. A quote about how this city “stays with you throughout your entire life” as the title event names a memoir that portrays the author’s marriage to Hadley Richardson. That writer wrote Three Stories and Ten Poems that were published by a bookstore run by Sylvia Beach in this city, called Shakespeare and Company. A memoir of this city is titled for the author’s (*) lesbian lover Alice B. Toklas. This city is the setting of A Moveable Feast. A short Imagist poem about this city’s subway was written by Ezra Pound. For 10 points, name this city where Gertrude Stein led a circle of US “Lost Generation” writers, a European capital.
Paris &lt;WA, OtherLit&gt;
6

149111-)
This story notes that the “enthusiasm” of Italians is “adopted to suit the time and opportunity,” such as to “practise imposture upon the British and Austrian millionaires.” In this story, the onomatopoeia “ugh, ugh, ugh!” is used to describe a cough lasting more than two minutes. This story’s narrator has difficulty recognizing a “sad voice” that speaks “a very good joke indeed, an excellent jest” and wonders about returning to the palazzo [pah-LOTS-oh]. A character in this story produces a (*) trowel to convince a friend that he is a mason. In this story, a man who insults Luchresi [loo-CRAY-zee] and who “prided himself on his connoisseurship” is led into a vault with the promise of wine, and dies there. For 10 points, Montresor inters Fortunato alive in what story by Edgar Allen Poe?
“The Cask of Amontillado” &lt;WA, Short&gt;
6

149131-)
This writer depicted a postmortem interview of sculptor Louise Nevelson in the play Occupant. This author wrote a play in which a “World City” in the Midwest is to be designed by a winner of the Pritzker Prize, who shares a passionate kiss with his teenage son Billy. In a play by this author, the “bergin [BERG-in] boy” accidentally killed both of his parents. Stevie brings Martin the corpse of an animal that he was having sex with in this author’s play The (*) Goat, or Who is Sylvia? This author wrote a play in which “get the guests” and “bringing up baby” are games proposed by George, a professor who asks a title question to his wife Martha. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward (Franklin) Albee (III) &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
6

149133-)
This novel’s protagonist douses herself in cold water after envisioning being picked up by a man with strong arms in the short section “Winter Memories.” This novel opens with a boy crying because his cat runs up a telephone pole only to be rescued when his sister gets back from the doctor. A character in this novel flees to Mexico to escape his relationship with Marie, who is murdered under a mulberry tree by her husband Frank. That murder is discovered by the religious old man Crazy (*) Ivar who becomes a loyal servant of the protagonist after her father’s death on a plot of land known as The Divide. For 10 points, name this novel about Alexandra Bergson’s and other immigrant families’ adventures on the frontier written by Willa Cather.
O Pioneers! &lt;JM, LongFic&gt;
6

149163-)
This kind of event is followed by a three-chapter sequel to achieve the “symmetry of form only attainable in pure fiction” in a novel by Herman Melville. Before one of these events in another novel, a seamstress shares a kiss with a man who mutters “I am the resurrection and life” to himself for days before. In The Handmaid’s Tale, this kind of event is called a “salvaging.” People involved in these events title a nonfiction novel in which the widow Nicole Baker is romanced by (*) Gary Gilmore; that novel is by Norman Mailer. Before experiencing this kind of event, Billy Budd exclaims “God bless Captain Vere!” A line that begins “it is a far, far better thing that I do” is spoken before one of these events by Sidney Carton in A Tale of Two Cities. For 10 points, identify this type of event that may be performed by guillotine.
executions [or hangings; or guillotinings; or shooting by firing squad; accept The Executioner’s Song; prompt on shooting or death] &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
6

149170-)
Because a character in this profession is waylaid by his infatuation with the German girl Katchen, he ends up meeting with Mr. Baldwin, who tells him about a Russian intervention. An anthology titled for this profession includes Nicholas Tomalin’s The General Goes Zapping Charlie Cong and work by Robert Christgau. A character in this profession is the protagonist of a novel in which Lord Cooper identifies a “promising little war” in Ishmaelia. A style called this profession’s (*) “gonzo” type discards objectivity for first-person narrative, and was pioneered the author of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. People in this profession are satirized in Evelyn Waugh’s novel Scoop. For 10 points, a “new” version of what profession was practiced by Hunter S. Thompson and Tom Wolfe?
journalism [or journalist; prompt on newspaper industry] &lt;WA, Other&gt;
6

149174-)
During one of these events, a man recounts how, as a child, his parents bought him a beautiful rocking horse called Golden Dancer, which broke once he rode it. Henry Drummond is told that “If the Lord wishes a sponge to think, it thinks” during one of these events that is covered by E. K. Hornbeck, a fictional journalist based on H. L. Mencken. During one of these events, a character dozes off and remembers a (*) “cold February morning” when a man shot a rabid dog. After that one of these events, Tom Robinson is shot and killed escaping from the Enfield Prison Farm. For 10 points, during what type of event in To Kill a Mockingbird does Atticus Finch act as a defense attorney?
trials [accept specific types of trials] (The first two sentences are about Inherit the Wind) &lt;LS, Drama&gt;
6

149195-)
This poet asked “What felt those poets but you feel the same?” of a man “beneath the myrtle shade” in a poem whose title implicitly compares Horace’s patron to this poet’s patron, Selina Hastings. This poet wrote “he longed to see America excel” of a dead minister who “leaves the earth for heav’n’s unmeasured height.” This author wrote of “a crown, a mansion, and a throne that shine” in one poem, and opened another with (*) “Hail, happy saint, on thy immortal throne!” A poem by this author of “On the Death of George Whitefield” states “Columbia’s scenes of glorious toils I write” and says “Proceed, great chief, with virtue on thy side / Thy every action let the Goddess guide” to a general. For 10 points, name this early African-American female poet of “To His Excellency General Washington.”
Phillis Wheatley (the first poem is “Maecenas”) &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
6

149217-)
A poem by this author that opens “My Sorrow, when she’s here with me” exemplifies how this author aimed to articulate “the sound of sense” better than other English writers. This poet observed “Crusoe was cast away, Thoreau was self-cast” in discussing inspirations for a poem about a “a broken drinking goblet like the Grail.” This author of “My November Guest” noted that “The work of hunters is another thing” in one poem, and imagined (*) two ways that the world might end in “Fire and Ice.” This poet imagined a conversation between a man who notes “My apple trees will not get across” and one who says “But here, there are now cows” and repeats his father’s saying “Good fences make good neighbors.” For 10 points, name this author of “Mending Wall.”
Robert Frost (the second poem is “Directive”) &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
6

149232-)
A poet describes this entity as arriving “among all that sound/ like a shoe with no foot in it.” In another poem, this entity takes the form of a gentleman caller of whom the narrator says, “We slowly drove - (*) he knew no haste / And I had put away / My labor and my leisure too.” In a poem by Rainer Maria Rilke, this entity is the title character who holds fate in his hands as the speaker lifts “Life’s red wine / to drink deep of the mystic shining cup.” For 10 points, name this subject of many poems by Sylvia Plath and Emily Dickinson.
Death
3

149238-)
One character in this novel is given a ten-dollar bill by Senator Byrd, shortly after taking her to the home of John Van Trompe. In this novel, Topsy steals a necklace from a character who later gives away locks of her own hair. Near the conclusion of this novel, George and Eliza arrive in Canada after escaping the (*) Shelby plantation. This novel, subtitled “Life Among the Lowly,” includes Eva St. Claire being saved from drowning and the title character’s death at the hands of Simon Legree. For 10 points, name this novel about the title slave, written by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin, or Life Among the Lowly
3

149252-)
At the end of this novel, a character writes a biography on Cass Mastern, whose research he had once used in an unfinished dissertation on American history. Sibyl Frey is impregnated in this novel, and another character is murdered after having an affair (*) with Anne Stanton, whom the protagonist of this novel also loves and eventually marries. The protagonist Jack Burden discovers that Judge Irwin accepted a bribe and committed suicide in, for 10 points, what novel featuring Willie Stark and written by Robert Penn Warren?
All the King’s Men
3

149260-)
After walking in on an affair, one character in this play fails summer school. One character in this play recounts how he “walked into the jungle” and walked out rich; that is Uncle Ben. Bernard’s success as a lawyer causes jealousy in the main character of this play. After failing to get a job at an interview, a (*) fountain pen is stolen by Biff. This play ends with the suicide of the main character in order to use the insurance money for Happy. For 10 points, name this play by Arthur Miller that tells of the demise of Willy Loman.
Death of a Salesman
3

149284-)
This poem was written about the author’s young wife, Virginia Clemm, and says that the title character was born away by her “highborn kinsmen” and died because “The angels, not half so happy in Heaven/ Went envying her and me.” (*) The title character of this poem is described by the speaker as “My life and my bride” and is said to have “lived with no other thought / than to love and be loved” by the speaker, who describes her as being laid to rest in a “tomb by the sounding sea.” For 10 points, name this posthumously published poem by Edgar Allan Poe.
“Annabel Lee”
3

149298-)
A poem describes waking up in this title city by the lines “I, an alarm, awake as a / rumor of war” while “children sleep, / exchanging dreams with seraphim.” A poem describing visiting part of this city begins with “Flood-tide below me! I see you face to face!” The author of that work wrote a poem about a famous street in this city. (*) Claude McKay’s poem describes dawn in this place, a time when “Almost the mighty city is asleep, / no pushing crowd, no tramping, tramping feet.” For 10 points, name this city that was home to Harlem Renaissance poets like Langston Hughes.
New York City [accept NYC; prompt on “Brooklyn” or “Harlem”]
3

149330-)
In this play, one character imagines the plays of William Shakespeare and the Sentinel newspaper being placed beneath a new bank. A choir in this play repeatedly sings “Blessed Be The Ties That Bind.” The organist Simon Stimson commits suicide in Act 3 of this play, which also sees a woman revisit her(*) twelfth birthday. Emily Webb dies in childbirth in this play, after her marriage to George Gibbs. For 10 points, name this play that is narrated by the Stage Manager and set in Grover’s Corners, written by Thornton Wilder.
Our Town &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;  Bonuses
3

149332-)
In one play by this author, a writer from New York is coerced into supporting Wally O’Hara’s political candidacy. In another play by this author of The Sign in Sidney Brustein’s Window, Willy Harris steals money that was going to be invested in a liquor store. In that play by this author, Joseph(*) Asagai wins the hand of Beneatha over George Murchison, and the Younger family moves to an all-white neighborhood. For 10 points, name this author of A Raisin in the Sun.
Lorraine Hansberry [or Lorraine Vivian Hansberry] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
3

149337-)
This poet described the moon rattling “like a fragment of angry candy” in a poem about “the Cambridge ladies who live in furnished souls.” This poet compares spring to a “perhaps hand,” and another poem by him ends “it’s always ourselves we find in the sea.” This author created “a conscientious(*) objector” who was  “more blond than you” and “more brave than me.” “Sun moon stars rain” is the refrain of a poem by this author, which includes the parenthetical “with up so floating many bells down.” For 10 points, name this poet of “i sing of Olaf glad and big” and “anyone lived in a pretty how town.”
e.e. cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149363-)
This poet describes a “soul more white / never through fire of martyrdom was led / to its repose” in a sonnet he wrote after his wife’s death. An epic poem by this author is named after an Acadian woman and begins “This is the forest primeval.” This author of “The(*) Cross of Snow” and Evangeline wrote about a character who grows up “by the shores of Gitchee Gumee” and marries Minniehaha. For 10 points, name this American poet of The Song of Hiawatha and “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed.  ME&gt;
3

149372-)
In this novel, bottles of kummel lead Miss van Campen to suspect the protagonist’s jaundice was caused by his alcoholism. This novel’s protagonist plays billiards with Count Greffi and is introduced to his lover by the surgeon Rinaldi. This novel’s protagonist flees to(*) Switzerland after the Battle of Caporetto, and falls in love with a British nurse named Catherine Barkley. For 10 points, name this World War I novel about the soldier Frederick Henry, written by Ernest Hemingway.
A Farewell to Arms &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149379-)
One member of this family is the 107-year-old Aunt Muriel, who refuses to come home for Christmas after being pranked. A character with this last name is repeatedly called “Weatherby” by his boss, and another of these characters’ greatest ambition is to find out how airplanes stay up. This family has a pet rat named(*) Scabbers and a flying car that is destroyed by a tree. This family is characterized as having “red hair, freckles, and more children than they can afford.” For 10 points, name this family from the Harry Potter series, that includes Harry’s best friend Ron and the twins Fred and George.
Weasley family [or Ron Weasley; or Arthur Weasley; or Fred Weasley; or George Weasley] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
3

149389-)
A woman in this story imagines her husband calling her a “Coney Island chorus girl,” before wondering what she can do with a dollar and eighty-seven cents. Prized possessions in this short story would make the Queen of Sheba and King Solomon envious. A trip to Madame(*) Sofronie’s in this story renders the purchase of hair combs useless. For 10 points, name this ironic short story about Jim and Della exchanging Christmas presents like wise men, written by O. Henry.
“The Gift of the Magi” &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149396-)
The title character of this novel looks through a window of a church to see a dancing girl in a red scarf, who is later dismissed by the protagonist’s wife for breaking the wife’s favorite pickle dish. Andrew Hale refuses to loan fifty dollars to this novel’s protagonist, who drives the narrator during a snowstorm in(*) Starkfield, Massachusetts. Zeena is the wife of this novel’s title character and has to take care of him and his lover after a “tragic accident.” The title character and Mattie Silver crash a sled into an elm tree in, for 10 points, what novel by Edith Wharton?
Ethan Frome &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149406-)
In a novel by this author, Jim and Will meet Mr. Cooger and Mr. Dark at a mysterious carnival. The protagonist of a novel by this author aids Professor Faber by memorizing a portion of the Book of Ecclesiastes [“Ek-leez-ee-as-teez”]. In a short story by this author, the death of a prehistoric butterfly causes Deutscher to be elected president instead of Keith. This author of “A Sound of(*) Thunder” and Something Wicked This Way Comes wrote about Douglas Spaulding making the title drink with his grandfather in Dandelion Wine. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the book-burning Guy Montag in Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Bradbury [or Ray Douglas Bradbury] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
3

149418-)
In one story by this author, an unnamed narrator argues with a salesman about how to stay safe in a thunderstorm. The title character of another of this author’s short stories lives at the Dead Letter Office, where he works with Turkey and Nippers and repeats the phrase “I would prefer(*) not to.” This author included “The Lightning-Rod Man” and “Bartleby the Scrivener” in his collection The Piazza Tales, and the narrator of his most famous novel asks the reader to “Call [him] Ishmael.” For 10 points, name this American author who wrote about Captain Ahab’s hunt of the title whale in Moby-Dick.
Herman Melville &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149427-)
In one of this author’s stories, the main character has difficulty drinking a bottle of Schnapps and describes his former life as an ape. This author wrote about a man who is replaced by a panther after starving to death in a cage in “A Hunger Artist.” In a novella by this author, the protagonist hears his sister play the violin, and has an(*) apple thrown at his back by his father, after awakening to find himself transformed into a giant bug. For 10 points, name this author, who wrote about Gregor Samsa in The Metamorphosis.
Franz Kafka &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
3

149439-)
In one novel, this character helps Captain Duncan Middleton rescue his wife Inez. This character uses chess pieces as ransom for the illegitimate daughters of Thomas Hutter. In another novel he appears in, Alice and Cora, the Munro daughters, are kidnapped on the way to Fort William Henry, and later rescued by this character with the help of(*) Uncas. This character and Chingachgook attempt to ease tensions between Hurons and Mohicans. For 10 points, name this hero of The Leatherstocking Tales, created by James Fenimore Cooper.
Natty Bumppo [or Natty Bumppo; or Deerslayer; or Hawkeye; or La Longue Carabine; or Pathfinder; or Leatherstocking before it is read] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
3

149448-)
This poem’s speaker is “now thirty-seven years old in perfect health” and notes “You shall possess the good of the earth and the sun.” This poem’s speaker asks “what is the grass?” before noticing a woman become the twenty ninth bather in a pool of twenty-eight male bathers. This poem’s second stanza opens “I loafe and invite my soul” and its speaker sounds his(*) “barbaric yawp over the roof of the world.” The speaker of this poem claims “every atom belonging to me as good as belongs to you,” and that he “contains multitudes” For 10 points, name this poem, which opens “I celebrate myself,” by Walt Whitman.
“Song of Myself” &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149457-)
The speaker of one of this man’s poems sees “a bronze memorial of a famous general,” and “[wants] to smash the whole thing into a pile of junk.” This author of “Ready to Kill” wrote about Potato Face Blind Man in a story collection he wrote for his children, called Rootabaga Stories. The title entity of a poem by this author asks to “shovel them under and let me work” in reference to bodies “at(*) Austerlitz and Waterloo.” Another poem by this author addresses a “City of Big Shoulders” and “Hog Butcher for the World.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Grass” and “Chicago.”
Carl Sandburg &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149479-)
In one poem by this author, the speaker shouts “Police! Police! Come and get this man!” In another poem by this author of “Ballad of the Landlord”, the speaker wants “Bessie, bop or Bach” records, and describes his instructor telling him to “Go home and write a page tonight.” This poet described a man “droning a drowsy(*) syncopated tune” and another poem repeats that “my soul has grown deep” like the title water feature. For 10 points, name this Harlem Renaissance poet of “Theme for English B”, “The Weary Blues,” and “The Negro Speaks of Rivers.”
Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149481-)
One character in this work is told not to look in a mirror because it grieves her to see ugly people, and another character in this work tells a woman he is the angel Gabriel then jumps out her window. One character in this collection cooks his falcon and gives it to a sick boy’s mother. The central characters of this collection are known as the(*) Brigata, and they flee to the Santa Maria Novella. Seven women and three men in this work tell stories for ten nights while escaping the plague in Florence. For 10 points, name this story collection by Giovanni Boccaccio.
The Decameron: Prince Galeotto [or Decameron: Principe Galeotto] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149491-)
One character in this novel repeatedly says “I’m cold” before dying, and the protagonist appears in a tree at that man’s funeral. Another character flees to Sweden at the end of this novel, in which M&amp;M Enterprises buys the entire world’s supply of Egyptian cotton. An(*) IBM machine in this novel promotes Major Major Major to Major, and Colonel Cathcart continues to raise the number of missions the 256th Air Force Squadron must fly. For 10 points, name this novel about Yossarian, who is caught in a paradoxical situation, written by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22 &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149497-)
In one play by this author, a character uses swimming from Puerto Barrio Mexico to China as a euphemism for suicide and is fought over by Hannah and hotel owner Maxine Faulk. In that play, defrocked priest Reverend Shannon releases the title creature. In another play by this author of Night of the(*) Iguana, a character claims she has “always depended on the kindness of strangers.” Blanche DuBois and Stanley Kowalski are creations of, for 10 points, what author of A Streetcar Named Desire?
Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149514-)
In a story by this author, a sickly character allows the woman he loves and rescued to marry Walcott. In another novel by this author, a monk is thrown off of Traitor’s Leap by the title character who is said to resemble the Faun of Praxiteles. This author of (*) Fanshawe and The Marble Faun also wrote a story in which Reverend Hooper refuses to remove the title garment. Arthur Dimmesdale and Pearl appear in a work written by, for 10 points, what American author of “The Minister’s Black Veil” and The Scarlet Letter?
Nathaniel Hawthorne
3

149546-)
A character in this novel hits a police officer named Jerry with his handgun, but is arrested after a fire hose knocks him off of a water tower. In this novel, that man is then questioned about Miss Ashton and Mrs. Clinton’s sister by Buckley. A man in this novel who donates ping pong tables to the South Side Boys Club disapproves of his daughter’s relationship with (*) Jan Erlone. In this novel, that daughter’s bones are later discovered in a furnace in the Dalton's house. For 10 points, name this novel in which the murder of Bessie Mears and Mary Dalton leads to the arrest of Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright.
Native Son
3

149565-)
In a novel by this author, Circe Berman asks Rabo Karabekian to tell her how his parents died, and he forbids her to enter his potato barn. This author’s first novel ends with the members of the Ghost Shirt society surrendering to the military in a post-World War III world where (*) automated systems replace manual labor. In another novel by this author, John or Jonah visits the island of San Lorenzo and lusts after Mona, finally performing boko-maru with her. In his most famous work, this author wrote of Tralfamadorians and Billy Pilgrim. For 10 points, name this American author of novels such as Cat’s Cradle and Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut
3

149575-)
In this novel, a thief with a sweet tooth is convinced to steal a bedsheet in exchange for some dates. A doctor who shares a tent with Chief White Halfoat is declared dead after his name is found on McWatt’s flight register. An Anabaptist in this work is interrogated as to whether he signed (*) “Washington Irving” to documents. At the end of this novel, the protagonist is given the idea to escape to Sweden by his tent-mate Orr. For 10 points, name this work set in Pianosa in which Yossarian attempts to get out of flying more missions, written by Joseph Heller.
Catch-22
3

149588-)
A giant one of these entities is a member of the Devil’s Entourage and has a love of pickled mushrooms; that character is Behemoth. Another of these is called Church after Winston Churchill and is killed after being (*) hit by a truck in a Stephen King novel. One of these creatures is kept by Holly Golightly in Truman Capote’s Breakfast at Tiffany’s. For 10 points, name the title “practical” animals of a T.S. Eliot collection written under the alias of “Old Possum,” the namesakes of an Andrew Lloyd Webber musical.
Cats
3

149600-)
The narrator of one of this author’s works uses only plural pronouns before discovering the word “I” in a book. That character, Equality, runs away with Liberty after discovering electricity, eventually finding that the “Unspeakable Word” is Ego. Other than writing (*) Anthem, she also developed the philosophy of objectivism. In her magnum opus, she creates the character of John Galt, who organizes a strike against the government, and Dagny Taggart, the vice president of a railroad company. For 10 points, name this author of The Fountainhead and Atlas Shrugged.
Ayn Rand
3

149611-)
This author's short story collection, South Sea Tales, includes a tale about a pearl buyer named Charley who shares a boat with Otoo on the Pacific. This author’s dystopian novel, told through two perspectives, begins with the scholarly narrator explaining that (*) Avis will be executed during the Second Revolt. Grey Beaver takes in Kiche and her half-wolf cub, the title protagonist of this author’s novel, who kills Lip-Lip. For 10 points, name this American novelist who was a member of “The Crowd” and is known for stories like “To Build a Fire” and the novel The Call of the Wild.
Jack London
3

149622-)
One character is driven to commit suicide in this fashion after being manipulated by Edmund Hooper for years. Another character who attempts to kill herself in this way begins to visit the female prisoners at Millbank prison to help her overcome her depression in the novel (*) Affinity. Another character who dies in this way leaves a brief suicide note that reads: “I didn’t mean it”; that character is Ilse Lubin. Clyde Griffiths utilizes this method to murder Roberta Alden in Theodore Dreiser’s An American Tragedy, and Ophelia uses it to kill herself in Shakespeare’s Hamlet. For 10 points, name this water-based method of death.
Drowning [accept word forms]
3

149628-)
A character in this play performed in The Pirates of Penzance and was romantically involved with Emily Meisenbach. Another character is nauseated by her class at Rubicam's Business College and skips class to visit the penguins at the zoo. The protagonist’s brother in this work is frustrated with his job at a shoe warehouse and goes to the (*) movies nearly every night, infuriating his mother. That mother, Amanda, boasts of a Sunday in Blue Mountain when she received seventeen gentlemen callers. For 10 points, name this play in which the crippled Laura shows the title collection to her high school love, Jim O’ Connor, by Tennessee Williams.
The Glass Menagerie
3

149636-)
This author begins a poem with “It was a long time ago / I have almost forgotten my dream,” and loses the dream because “the wall rose / rose slowly / slowly / between me and my dream.” This author of “Mother to Son” often talks about dreams, saying in the poem (*) “Dreams” that “if dreams die / Life is a broken-winged bird / that cannot fly.” This author’s poem “Harlem” is also known as “Dream Deferred” because of its opening line, “What happens to a dream deferred?” For 10 points, name this leader of the Harlem Renaissance, the author of “The Negro Speaks of Rivers” and “The Weary Blues.”
Langston Hughes Packet 10 – Bonuses
3

149641-)
This author’s fifteen-minute play A Piece of Monologue focuses on an old man speaking about death, and another of his plays sees the title character repeat the word “spool” while reflecting on his youth. In a play by this author, an old couple named Nagg and Nell live in ash bins, and the servant(*) Clov takes orders from their son Hamm. This author of Krapp’s Last Tape and Endgame wrote about Vladimir and Estragon contemplating the hanging of themselves, as they perform the title action. For 10 points, name this absurdist playwright of Waiting for Godot.
Samuel Beckett [or Samuel Barclay Beckett] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149653-)
The protagonist of this story whistles as he passes a lightning-struck tulip tree due to its connection with the death of Major Andre. This story’s protagonist rides the stubborn old horse Gunpowder, lent to him by Hans van Ripper. After the main character of this story disappears, Brom(*) Bones marries the beautiful Katrina van Tassel. A schoolteacher’s hat and a smashed pumpkin are found near a bridge at this story’s climax. For 10 points, name this short story about Ichabod Crane’s encounter with the Headless Horseman, written by Washington Irving.
“The Legend of Sleepy Hollow” &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149672-)
The speaker of this poem notes that “snows of Tyrol” and “clear beer of Vienna” are “not very pure or true.” The title character of this poem is described as a “bag full of God,” with a toe “as big as a Frisco seal.” This poem’s speaker has always been scared of “[the](*) Luftwaffe, [the] gobbledygoo” of the title character, who is described as “a man in black with a Meinkampf look.” The speaker of this poem insists that “every woman adores a fascist.” For 10 points, name this poem by Sylvia Plath, addressed to her father.
“Daddy” &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149678-)
In a poem about these objects, the speaker declares “Earth’s the right place for love” after earlier describing a boy “too far away from town to learn baseball.” William Blake compared wrath to one of these objects, that his foe is “outstretched” beneath. Joyce Kilmer wrote that, “I think I shall never see / A poem as lovely as [one of these(*) objects].” A poem about these objects ends by saying “one could do worse” than swinging on them. For 10 points, name these objects described in Robert Frost’s “Birches.”
trees [or specific kinds of trees, such as birches before it is read] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149694-)
In one novel by this author, a pirate followed by five dogs saves 1,000 quarters to buy a golden candlestick. That character is in a group of “paisanos” who burn down a house after their leader Danny’s death. Another novel by this author sees Kino, Juana, and(*) Coyotito suffer many misfortunes while in possession of the title object. This author of Tortilla Flat and The Pearl wrote about Jim Casy’s death during a strike, while attempting to flee the Dust Bowl. For 10 points, name this author, who wrote about the Joad family in The Grapes of Wrath.
John Steinbeck [or John Ernst Steinbeck, Jr.] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Mike Etzkorn&gt;
3

149713-)
This poem describes people “surrounded by orange crates of theology” who “cast their ballot for Eternity outside of Time.” This poem was published by the City Lights Bookstore, and sees a figures throw “potato salad at CCNY lecturers on Dadaism.” An “ancient heavenly connection” in this poem is yearned for by those (*) “angelheaded hipsters.” The narrator of this poem repeatedly tells Carl Solomon that he’s with him in Rockland. For 10 points, name this poem that begins, “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness,” which was written by Allen Ginsberg.
“Howl” &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149717-)
In this novel, a woman’s passionate letters to her indifferent daughter Clara are so well-written that they are taught in schools after the woman’s death. That woman’s companion and maid to the Marquesas was raised at the (*) Convent of Santa Maria Rosa de la Rosas, where the protagonist of part three of this novel was abandoned with his twin, Manuel. In this novel, that twin falls in love with Camila Perichole. Her son and valet fall to their death with Pepita, Esteban, and the Marquesa de Montemayor in, for 10 points, what Thornton Wilder novel in which the namesake Peruvian structure collapses?
The Bridge of San Luis Rey
3

149752-)
One story by this author sees a group of travelers driven to suicide by the sound of the rain; that story appears in a collection titled The Illustrated Man. This man quoted a Sara Teasdale poem in “There Will Come Soft Rains,” about a computer-controlled house after a nuclear war. A novel by this man, which has sections including (*) “The Sieve and the Sand” and “The Hearth and the Salamander,” sees the protagonist destroying the Mechanical Hound with a flamethrower. For 10 points, name this author of The Martian Chronicles who wrote about the fireman Guy Montag in Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Bradbury
3

149757-)
The narrator of this novel is an engineer who was brought to its setting because of a carpenter’s strike. One character in this novel is utterly distraught after another character breaks a pickle dish, which can be understood symbolically as the breaking of (*) Zeena’s marriage with the title character. That title character is first seen by the narrator limping around in the town of Starkfield, Massachusetts. The narrator later finds out that the limp was from a sledding “accident.” For 10 points, identify this Edith Wharton novel about the title man who cheated on his wife with Mattie Silver.
Ethan Frome Tiebreaker
3

149770-)
In this collection, Reuben Pantier is described by his former schoolteacher as “The boy I loved best of all in the school.” In his section, Reuben addresses Emily Sparks by saying that “I owe whatever I was in life/ To your hope that would not give me up.” The village poetess in this work, Minerva Jones, wants to have her works published. (*) Blind Jack, one of the few not unhappy characters in this collection, listens to Homer describe how Troy fell. Abraham Lincoln’s rumored boyhood love, Ann Rutledge, is mentioned in, for 10 points, what Edgar Lee Masters collection of epigrams about the residents of the title town?
Spoon River Anthology
3

149779-)
. This poem refers to its narrator as a “[person] on the pavement.” It describes the title character as “richer than a king / and admirably schooled in every grace” and “clean favored, and (*) imperially slim.” The narrator thinks that the title character “is everything” and wishes that he was “in his place.” For 10 points, name this poem titled for a “gentleman from sole to crown” who later “[puts] a bullet through his head,” a work by Edwin Arlington Robinson.
“Richard Cory” Packet 13 – Bonuses
3

149784-)
One of this man’s works features a reformed criminal who falls in love with Annabel Adams. In that work, detective Ben Price pretends not to recognize Jimmy Valentine as he leaves the bank. Another one of his stories features a desperate protagonist with only (*) one dollar and eighty-seven cents on hand. In that work, by this man, Jim sells his watch in order to buy Della a comb she is unable to use, as she sold her hair to buy a watch-chain for Jim. For 10 points, name this American short-story writer of A Retrieved Reformation and The Gift of the Magi, famous for his twist endings.
O. Henry [accept William Sydney Porter]
3

149809-)
One character in this novel has a “dog tooth” and stumps on her hands where her sixth fingers were removed. One character in this book sleeps naked and is married to a woman with a foot deformed from stepping on a nail. Maureen Peel and the protagonist’s mother Polly appear in this book. The pedophile (*) Soaphead Church tricks this book’s protagonist into poisoning a dog in exchange for fulfilling a wish to be more like Shirley Temple. After being raped by her father Cholly Breedlove in this book, Pecola goes insane hoping for the title symbol of white beauty. For 10 points, name this novel by Toni Morrison.
The Bluest Eye &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

149823-)
In this novel, a dead character realizes that for “people to whom sin is just a matter of words...salvation is just words too” while praying with Cora. A character in this novel repeats the line “He could do so much for me if he just would,” and one man in it lists thirteen reasons why he made a coffin “on the (*) bevel.” A chapter in this novel consists only of the line, “My mother is a fish.” Darl is sent to an insane asylum for burning down Gillespie’s barn during the journey in this book made by the the Bundren family to bring Addie’s coffin to Jefferson in Yoknapatawpha County. For 10 points, name this novel by William Faulkner.
As I Lay Dying &lt;Yue&gt;
4

149857-)
A poem by this author describes the speaker voyaging from Bordeaux to Yucatán to North Carolina, and another mentions an “old sailor” who “catches tigers in red weather” while drunk and asleep. In one of this poems, this author described a “muscular” man who whips (*) “concupiscent curds” in preparation for a funeral wake. The poems “Comedian as the Letter C,” “Disillusionment of Ten O’Clock,” and “The Emperor of Ice-Cream” are among those in this writer’s collection Harmonium, which also contains a haiku-inspired poem. For 10 points, name this American Modernist who wrote “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.”
Wallace Stevens &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

149868-)
In one story by this man, Gloria is nearly killed in a factory before being rescued by the title “Robbie”. Speedy repeatedly runs around a selenium pool for no apparent reason in one story by this man that appears in a collection narrated by Dr. Susan Calvin, and Hari Seldon invents the science of psychohistory in this man’s (*) Foundation trilogy. One book by this man includes requirements for certain things “to protect its own existence” and “not to injure a human being.” For 10 points, name this science-fiction author who put forth the Three Laws of Robotics in his short-story collection I, Robot.
Isaac Asimov &lt;Kuang&gt;
4

149875-)
In a story by this man, a dark figure welcomes converts to “the communion of [their] race” at a meeting where the protagonist sees the “teacher of the catechism” Goody Cloyse before chasing after the pink ribbon of his wife Faith. The Reverend Hooper refuses to remove the title (*) garment in one of his stories, and in another Beatrice is raised on poisonous plants by Rappaccini. This man wrote “Young Goodman Brown” and “The Minister’s Black Veil,” as well as a book in which the protagonist has Arthur Dimmesdale’s child Pearl. For 10 points, name this American who described the ostracization of Hester Prynne in The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne &lt;Yue&gt;
4

149889-)
After complaining about a man who “preach nothin’ but golden candlesticks,” a character in this play struggles to remember the Ten Commandments. A girl in this play pretends to be frightened by a yellow bird while in court, and Mary Warren gifts a (*) poppet to Elizabeth later found to have a needle in it. Giles Corey dies in this play crying for “more weight!” as he is crushed with rocks. Abigail Williams instigates the main events of this play after accusing the slave Tituba of helping her and others to cavort with the Devil. For 10 points, name this Arthur Miller play in which John Proctor fights against the Salem Witch Hunt.
The Crucible &lt;Horton&gt;
4

149905-)
A sound in this story is described as that which “arises from the bottom of the soul when overcharged with awe,” and at this story’s end, one character yells, “Villains! Dissemble no more!” This story’s narrator practices inching quietly closer and closer to his (*) victim over a week, whom he had begun to hate due to an “eye of a vulture” that’s pale blue. The narrator of this story murders an old man, only to confess to the police as the title object drives him insane. For 10 points, name this story by Edgar Allen Poe in which the narrator hears the title organ beating under the floorboards.
“The Tell-Tale Heart” &lt;Kuang&gt; Bonuses
4

149917-)
In one story by this writer, Powell Boyd and other teenagers set fire to the woods around Mrs. Cope’s house despite her feeding them; that story by this author is “A Circle in the Fire.” This author created the fraudulent Bible salesman Manley Pointer, who steals Joy’s (*) prosthetic leg in the story “Good Country People.” In a story by this author, the cat Patty Sing causes Bailey’s family to get in an accident during a road trip to Florida, ultimately leading to the Misfit shooting the Grandmother in the heart. For 10 points, name this Southern Gothic writer, the author of “A Good Man is Hard to Find.”
Flannery (Mary) O’Connor &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

149927-)
This poet described how the stars “go waltzing out in blue and red” in a poem punctuated with the parenthetical phrase “(I think I made you up inside my head).” In a poem by this writer, “The peanut-crunching crowd / Shoves in to see / them unwrap me hand and foot.” This person wrote a poem in which the speaker claims to (*) “eat men like air” and metaphorically rises from the dead. This author of “Mad Girl’s Love Song” and “Lady Lazarus” calls the title figure a “bastard” in a poem in which she declares “I’m through.” For 10 points, name this author of the poem “Daddy” and the novel The Bell Jar.
Sylvia Plath &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

149939-)
This man wrote a book about Tristran Thorn, who meets a fallen star that turns out to be the girl Yvaine. The first novel by this author of Stardust was a collaboration with Terry Pratchett about the Antichrist titled Good Omens. This man won the Newbery award for a book about a boy threatened by “the man Jack” and raised by supernatural spirits. A 2001 novel by this author of (*) The Graveyard Book centers on Shadow, who learns the conman Mr. Wednesday is the god Odin, and this man authored a comic series about the manifestation of Dream. For 10 points, name this English author of American Gods and the Sandman comic series.
Neil Gaiman &lt;Kuang&gt;
4

149951-)
A Midwestern one of these places is the setting of Jane Smiley’s novel Moo. After speaking about the “Merrie England,” the title character begins an epic rant in one of these places in Kingsley Amis’s book Lucky Jim, and before moving to his sister’s farm, David Lurie works at one of these places in (*) J.M. Coetzee’s Disgrace. In Death of a Salesman, Biff Loman is unable to enter one of these institutions despite the help of Bernard, and a “Writers’ Workshop” is located in Iowa at one of these institutions. For 10 points, name these institutions, one of which is the Great Gatsby’s supposed alma mater “Oggsford.”
universities (or schools; or colleges; or campuses; accept campus novel; accept any specific school) &lt;Kuang&gt;
4

149952-)
One of this man’s plays centers on an unlicensed cab station run by Jim Becker and is titled Jitney. One play by this writer includes a character who suffered a head injury in war and believes he is the Archangel Gabriel, and that play ends with Cory visiting his father’s funeral despite his father having prevented him from pursuing a (*) football scholarship. Plays like Ma Rainey’s Black Bottom and The Piano Lesson appear in a series of plays by this writer that follow the experience of African-Americans over the 20th century in the title city. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote The Pittsburgh Cycle, which also includes his play Fences.
August Wilson (or Frederick August Kittel, Jr.) &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

149962-)
This location came into being with the help of research conducted by Harvard professor Gerald Lesser and the “CTW model.” An episode poignantly discussed the death of this location’s resident storekeeper Mr. Hooper, and a character from this location warns against finishing the “terrifying” book (*) The Monster at the End of This Book. To encourage children to report sexual abuse, this location’s resident Mr. Snuffleupagus was proven as real. Shows set in this location are sponsored by numbers and letters of the alphabet. For 10 points, name this fictional location, the residence of Grover, Oscar the Grouch, and Big Bird.
Sesame Street &lt;Chu&gt;
4

149964-)
In one scene in this work, a beggar challenges the protagonist to a boxing match, but the protagonist wipes the floor with him. The protagonist of this work begins crying after listening to a blind singer tell his tale, which prompts the protagonist to relate stories about eating the cattle of the sun and meeting the king of the (*) winds. In one episode, the protagonist clings to the bellies of sheep and pretends his name is “Nobody” to escape the cyclops Polyphemos. The title character of this work takes a decade to return to his wife Penelope and his home Ithaca. For 10 points, name this epic poem by Homer.
the Odyssey &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

149970-)
This author pleas for greater understanding and compassion from a specific ethnic group after recounting a dinner he once ate with Elijah Muhammad in the essay “Down at the Cross,” and he wrote a novel that ends with David imagining scenes of a man’s execution after David’s fiance Hella discovers his homosexuality. In a novel by this author of Giovanni’s Room and (*) The Fire Next Time, John Grimes bears witness to the violence of his step-father Gabriel, who is a zealous minister at the Harlem-located Temple of the Fire Baptized. For 10 points, name this author and civil and gay rights activist who wrote Go Tell it on the Mountain.
James Arthur Baldwin &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

149989-)
This character first appeared in a group of short stories in which he hangs out with Maimie Mannering at some gardens. In an official sequel written by Geraldine McCaughrean, this character meets the circus master Ravello, who encourages this character to wear a scarlet coat. This character first appeared in (*) The Little White Bird, and the rights to him and the works he appeared in were left to the Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children. This character created by J.M. Barrie is the leader of the Lost Boys, and he kidnaps Wendy out of her bedroom. For 10 points, name this boy who refuses to grow up, a resident of Neverland.
Peter Pan (accept just Peter, I guess) &lt;Kuang&gt; Bonuses
4

149999-)
The 32nd chapter of this novel closes with the narrator comparing an imperfect taxonomic system he creates to the unfinished Cathedral of Cologne. Early in this book, the narrator listens to a sermon given by Father Mapple. The narrator of this book observes a man shave with a (*) harpoon, and is eventually saved by clinging to a coffin built for that latter man. The protagonist of this book serves with characters like Starbuck, the tattooed cannibal Queequeg, and the maniacal Captain Ahab. For 10 points, name this novel in which the Pequod is destroyed by a giant white whale, a novel by Herman Melville.
Moby-Dick; or, The Whale &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150015-)
One character with this FIRST name believes that the human spirit and the Holy Spirit are one and the same, and a character with this first name dedicates his high school commencement speech to his friend’s father who had committed suicide. A preacher with this first name dies while leading a migrant (*) strike, and it’s the first name of a man with the surname Burden in My Antonia and one with the surname Casy in The Grapes of Wrath. The title character and Tom Sawyer help rescue a character known only by this name at the end of a Mark Twain book. For 10 points, give this classic American first name, the name of a slave who travels on a raft with Huck Finn.
Jim (accept Jim Burden or Jim Casy; prompt on James) &lt;Suh&gt;
4

150029-)
Description acceptable. Harold Norse wrote a poem about this event in response to an account of it by Irish biographer Ian Gibson. Pablo Neruda wrote a lengthy ode in response to this event, and Allen Ginsberg’s “A Supermarket in California” discusses seeing the central figure in this event (*) “down by the watermelons.” The subject of this August 1936 event had written works like the poem Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter and the plays Blood Wedding and The House of Bernarda Alba. For 10 points, describe this event in which a Spanish member of the Generation of ‘27 suffered an ill fate at the hands of Spanish Nationalists.
the death of Federico Garcia Lorca (accept murder in place of death, as well as any other similar answer giving the author’s name and suggesting execution) &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150045-)
This writer wrote a children’s book in which a dog steals cake from Bab and Betty’s tea party. This author of Under the Lilacs wrote a book featuring an unconventional school where all children have their own gardens and pets and is called Plumfield; that book by this woman was a sequel to a novel in which a character marries (*) Professor Bhaer after earlier declining a marriage proposal from her friend Laurie. In this author’s most famous book, Beth contracts scarlet fever, eventually dying under the care of her sister Jo. For 10 points, name this author of a book about the March sisters titled Little Women.
Louisa May Alcott &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150052-)
In a John Greenleaf Whittier poem, this figure is “led [...] out to die” and stops to kiss a child before the speaker declares “Perish with him the folly that seeks through evil good!” Russell Banks’s 1998 novel Cloudsplitter follows the life of this man’s son Owen. Henry David Thoreau wrote an essay which he titled “A Plea for [this Captain],” calling this figure highly moral and humane, and an (*) epic poem titled for this figure’s “Body” was written by Stephen Vincent Benet. For 10 points, name this radical abolitionist who perpetrated the Pottawatomie Massacre and led a raid on Harper’s Ferry.
John Brown &lt;Cohen&gt; Bonuses
4

150054-)
A poem by this author mentions the “silver liquid drops” of the title phenomenon before declaring that the speaker “loves” that phenomenon. This poet of “April Rain Song” and the collection Fine Clothes to the Jew described hearing “down on Lenox Avenue” a “drowsy syncopated tune” in the poem (*) “The Weary Blues.” In a poem by this man, the speaker states that, despite being sent “to eat in the kitchen / when company comes,” “I, too, am America.” A poem by this man references building a hut near the Congo and looking upon the Nile. For 10 points, name this author of “The Negro Speaks of Rivers,” a poet of the Harlem Renaissance.
(James Mercer) Langston Hughes &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150082-)
A Midwestern one of these places is the setting of Jane Smiley’s novel Moo. After speaking about the “Merrie England,” the title character begins an epic rant in one of these places in Kingsley Amis’s book Lucky Jim, and before moving to his sister’s farm, David Lurie works at one of these places in (*) J.M. Coetzee’s Disgrace. In Death of a Salesman, Biff Loman is unable to enter one of these institutions despite the help of Bernard, and a “Writers’ Workshop” is located in Iowa at one of these institutions. For 10 points, name these institutions, one of which is the Great Gatsby’s supposed alma mater “Oggsford.”
universities (or schools; or campuses; accept campus novel; accept any specific school) &lt;Kuang&gt;
4

150093-)
In one of this author’s stories, a character feels “ecstatically...sleepy” after receiving a wristwatch. Sergeant X meets the young girl Esmé before being sent off to Germany in one of his stories, and one of his characters kiss a girl’s wet foot after describing animals that eat up to 78 of a certain (*) fruit in a story included in the collection Nine Stories. Seymour Glass abruptly shoots himself in this writer’s “A Perfect Day for Bananafish,” and in his most famous book, the protagonist leaves Pencey Prep and visits a merry-go-round with his sister Phoebe. For 10 points, name this writer who created Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
Jerome David Salinger &lt;Yue&gt;
4

150114-)
In one poem by this author, the speaker asks the addressee, “how can I write a holy litany in your silly mood?” before declaring “Sacco &amp; Vanzetti must not die” and “I am the Scottsboro boys.” A poem by this author asks, “How many flies buzzed round you innocent of your grime?” and repeats the word “locomotive” eleven times. This poet of (*) “Sunflower Sutra,” “America,” and “Kaddish” wrote a poem that’s dedicated to his contemporary Carl Solomon and begins “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked.” For 10 points, name this Beat poet who wrote “Howl.”
Allen Ginsberg &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150125-)
A Louis MacNeice sonnet likens this time to “Fate’s great bazaar” and extols the reader to “concentrate on this Now.” A poem named after this time begins its author’s collection Near the Ocean with the exclamation “O to break loose, like the chinook salmon jumping and falling back.” A poem about this time is often interpreted as subverting Keatsian imagery in its description of “the isolation of the sky” in its final stanza, which (*) Harriet Monroe initially removed. A poem about this time describes “a ring of men” that perform a “chant of paradise” in “devotion to the sun.” That poem asks “Why should she give her bounty to the dead?”, repeatedly calls Death the “mother of beauty,” and ends by describing pigeons sinking “downward to darkness, on extended wings.” For 10 points, a woman enjoys “complacencies of the peignoir (“pane-WAHR”), and late coffee and oranges” in a Wallace Stevens poem about what time of Christian churchgoing?
Sunday morning [prompt on partial answers; accept “Waking Early Sunday Morning”] &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
8

150140-)
A story titled for one of these people is about Georges (“zhorzh”), who beheads Alfred just as he realizes Alfred is his father, and was written by Victor Séjour. In a story titled for these people, Xarifa (“huh-REE-fuh”) commits suicide after being forced into sexual servitude. That story is by Lydia Maria Child. After being told that she is this type of person, a woman writes a letter to her mother Madame Valmonde, who tells her to come home. A trope originating in the mid-nineteenth century is named after (*) “tragic” characters of this type, and is exemplified by stories like “The Wife of His Youth” by Charles W. Chesnutt. A woman finds a letter revealing that it’s actually Armand, not her, who is this ethnicity, at the end of Kate Chopin’s “Désirée’s Baby.” For 10 points, name this ethnicity of characters often born from the rape of slave women by their white owners.
mulattos [accept quadroons; accept mixed-race people; accept “Le Mulâtre”; accept any answer indicating that they are part-black; prompt on African-Americans] &lt;RK, Short Fiction&gt;
8

150157-)
One of this playwright’s characters wants to establish a national park at the home of Joaquin Miller, even though he doesn’t know who Joaquin Miller is. In a play by this man, a buzzer sounds twice, three times, then four times as Marjorie tries to convince a man not to send her father to prison for placing blank bonds in a bank in Culver. Alan McClean’s plan to prevent an appropriations bill from passing by loading it with (*) pork backfires in a play by this author whose title comes from Mercutio’s dying speech in Romeo and Juliet. Shadow refuses to take part in the murder of Judge Gaunt in a play by this man in which Trock tries to prevent people from finding out that he committed the murder for which Romagna was executed. This author based that verse drama on the Sacco and Vanzetti case. For 10 points, name this author of Both Your Houses and Winterset.
Maxwell Anderson [or James Maxwell Anderson] &lt;JN, Drama&gt;
8

150184-)
This character is told “I’ll make you perfect” by a middle-aged woman originally from Luxembourg, with whom he goes to Benton Harbor. This character espouses the idea that “you must be straight or else your existence is merely clownery” with respect to the “axial lines of life.” At the end of the novel in which he appears, this man sings with his maid Jacqueline and calls himself a “sort of Columbus.” This character adheres to Heraclitus’s principle that “a man’s character is his fate.” Under the influence of Grammick, this man becomes a union organizer after he invokes the wrath of (*) Uncle Charlie for bringing Mimi to the hospital following an abortion attempt. In his youth, this character is raised by Grandma Lausch and falls under the sway of Einhorn. This character meets his future wife Stella in Mexico while training the eagle Caligula to catch lizards with Thea Fenchel. In the opening sentence, this man declares that he is “an American, Chicago born.” For 10 points, name this character whose “adventures” are the subject of a Saul Bellow novel.
Augie March [accept either underlined portion; accept The Adventures of Augie March] &lt;JN, Long Fiction&gt;
8

150199-)
In the preface to a collection, this poet argued that French poems in vers libre (“vair LEE-bruh”) form are built on “organic rhythm” and claimed to be the first to attempt Paul Fort’s “polyphonic prose” form in English. The speaker of a poem by this author watches the “thin and lustreless” moon from a window and muses “I know the moon, and this is an alien city.” This author of “A London Thoroughfare. 2 A.M.” wrote a poem whose speaker recalls being “aching, melting, unafraid” and seeing “the sun (*) flash from [a man’s] sword-hilt and the buckles on his shoes.” This poet included the sequence “Two Speak Together” in the Japan-inspired Pictures of the Floating World, which concerns her relationship with Ada Dwyer Russell. The speaker of a poem by this author wears a “stiff, brocaded gown” and receives a letter informing her of the death of Lord Hartwell. That poem ends with the speaker asking, “Christ! What are [the title entities] for?” For 10 points, name this Imagist poet of “Patterns.”
Amy Lowell [or Amy Lawrence Lowell] &lt;JN, Poetry&gt;
8

150214-)
James Wood’s harsh review of this novel ends by quoting the author’s belief that he’s a better writer than Michael Crichton. In this novel, Schopenhauer quotations and an illustration of four rectangles explaining multiplication are interspersed amidst a description of a “Dinner of Revenge,” during which a seven-year-old stays at the table for five hours without eating liver. While on a Nordic Cruise, an old man in this novel hallucinates a conversation with a literal “sociopathic turd” that successfully convinces him to jump off. A professor in this novel has sex with his student (*) Melissa while under the influence of the drug Aslan, leading him to be fired and later move to Lithuania. This novel begins by describing an “alarm bell of anxiety” as the retired railway engineer Alfred, who suffers from Parkinson’s, repairs his home in St. Jude, where his wife Enid desires to bring their adult children for “one last Christmas.” For 10 points, name this 2001 novel centering on the dysfunctional Lambert family, written by Jonathan Franzen.
The Corrections &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt;
8

150216-)
Two of this author’s characters have their first kiss in a mirror-covered room in a villa filled with grotesques. That happens in a novel ending with Eleonora da Fonseca Pimentel cursing the main characters for their selfishness, declaring “Damn them all.” In a story by this author, Ursula notes that in a story it’s possible to write “He’s still alive” but in a painting or photograph you can’t show the concept of “still.” Ellen Lee accused this author of plagiarizing books like (*) Willa Cather’s My Mortal Enemy in a novel about the actress Helena Modjeska (“maw-JESS-kuh”). An essay by this author is about “the triumph of the epicene style,” which “sees everything in quotation marks.” A novel by this woman fictionalizes the lives of William and Emma Hamilton. Max says “At first he was just losing weight, he felt only a little ill” at the beginning of a dialogue-heavy story by this author about the AIDS crisis. For 10 points, name this author of In America, The Volcano Lover, and “The Way We Live Now,” as well as the essay “Notes on Camp.”
Susan Sontag &lt;WN, Long Fiction&gt;
8

150227-)
This writer criticized the museum-like nature of contemporary theater in the essay “Theater Problems.” In a play by this author, Saint-Claude leads a failed Marxist revolution against the title character’s system of justice, which involves the title character sentencing people to death and his wife Anastasia executing them. A play by this author takes place in a town whose inhabitants symbolically wear yellow shoes. In that play, Jakob Duckling and Walter Perch are hunted down in Canada and Australia, respectively, and (*) castrated at the behest of the main character, becoming the eunuchs Koby and Loby. In a play by this man, a resident of Les Cerisiers (“suh-reez-YAY”) believes he is regularly visited by King Solomon. This man wrote a play in which the psychiatrist Mathilde von Zahnd takes advantage of the title characters, and one in which the townspeople of Güllen vote to kill Alfred Ill at the urging of Claire Zachanassian. For 10 points, name this Swiss playwright of The Marriage of Mr. Mississippi, The Physicists, and The Visit.
Friedrich Dürrenmatt &lt;JN, Drama&gt;
8

150237-)
This character describes another as someone “who tolerates, which is intolerable; who is kind, which is cruel; who understands, which is beyond comprehension” in a speech that repeats the phrase “sad, sad, sad.” Another character describes this character as “108… years old” and “[weighing] somewhat more than that.” In a monologue, this character explains that “we cry, and we take our tears, and we put ’em in the ice box… and then we put them in our drinks,” before repeatedly exclaiming (*) “CLINK!” while giggling. While surveying a living room, this character quotes Bette (“Betty”) Davis by exclaiming “What a dump!” before repeatedly asking for that quotation’s original source. After this character calls a man a “flop” in bed, she claims the only man who has ever made her happy is her husband, who promptly arrives with a bouquet of snapdragons. This woman is the title hostess of the party game “Hump the Hostess.” After a faculty party, this character informs her husband that Nick and Honey will be arriving, before singing the play’s title question. For 10 points, name this wife of George in Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Martha &lt;JX, Drama&gt;
8

150240-)
The protagonist of this story has a “pull-over jersey blouse” that looks different depending on whether she’s at home or not, illustrating how “everything about her had two sides to it.” A character in this story calls the protagonist’s house “a cardboard box I can knock down any time.” In this story, a character draws an X in the air which he refers to as “my sign” and says “Gonna get you, baby” to a girl on a date with Eddie who’s jealous of her sister (*) June. A character in this story who owns a transistor radio and has “the face of a forty-year-old baby” repeatedly threatens to pull the telephone line. After staying home from Aunt Tillie’s barbecue, the protagonist of this story sunbathes in her backyard and listens to Bobby King before being interrupted by the honking of a damaged gold convertible covered in writing. Ellie Oscar and Arnold Friend coax Connie out of her house in, for 10 points, what disturbing story by Joyce Carol Oates titled for a pair of questions?
“Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?” &lt;RK, Short Fiction&gt;
8

150262-)
While a character in this novel sits perched on a cliff as if planning to throw herself off, her friend notices that she has written the word “farewell” in French on the cover of a nearby book. A character in this novel troubles a woman by showing her Bronzino’s portrait of Lucrezia Panciatichi (“pahn-chah-TEE-kee”), whom he claims she resembles. This novel’s first volume ends with a chance meeting of the central characters at the National Gallery. This novel opens with a woman confronting her terrible father (*) Lionel to tell him that her aunt has ordered her to move out. After a man delivers an ultimatum to his fiancée saying that he will only marry her if she agrees to give up his inheritance, this novel ends with the line “We shall never be again as we were!” The desire to overcome Maud Lowder’s disapproval motivates Kate Croy to force a match between Merton Densher and the terminally-ill heiress Milly Theale to gain her fortune in, for 10 points, what novel by Henry James?
The Wings of the Dove &lt;JN, Long Fiction&gt;
8

150284-)
At the sight of stars in the night sky, a character in this story quotes Shakespeare’s lines “How far that little candle throws its beams! So shines a good deed in a naughty world.” A woman listens to the Missouri Waltz in this story shortly before encountering a woman in an elevator humming the same tune. Two characters in this story are described as “striking that satisfactory average of income, endeavor, and respectability” and going to the theater an average of 10.3 times a year, but after the husband discovers the wife hasn’t paid her (*) clothing bills, they get into a fight in which the husband’s affair with Grace Howland is brought up. The main characters of this story discover that Mr. Osborn has been abusing his wife and hear the Sweeneys’ nurse singing. In this story, Jim and Irene Westcott’s obsession with music leads them to buy the title object, which they subsequently discover allows them to listen in on other apartments. For 10 points, name this short story by John Cheever.
“The Enormous Radio” &lt;JN, Short Fiction&gt;
8

150295-)
In a poem, this person promises to “sing to you of the flesh you don’t have” in a conversation with death, and is “seen walking among rifles.” A book named for this man includes several letters addressed to him ending with the salutation “Love, Jack,” and includes an introduction attributed to this man even though he was long dead when the book was written. This man is compared to Don Quixote in a Yevgeny Yevtushenko poem, and inspired a Jack Spicer collection titled After [this man]. This man himself wrote a poem whose speaker instructs, “Sleep, (*) fly, rest: even the sea dies!” The speaker of that poem by this man sees the “terrible mothers” who “lifted their heads” and insists, “I will not see it!” in response to the “Spilled Blood” of the title event. In a poem mostly addressed to Walt Whitman, the speaker asks this man “What were you doing down by the watermelons?”; that poem is Allen Ginsberg’s “A Supermarket in California.” For 10 points, name this Spanish poet who wrote “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter” and Gypsy Ballads.
Federico García Lorca [or Federico del Sagrado Corazón de Jesús García Lorca] &lt;JN, Poetry&gt; Bonuses
8

150332-)
The speaker of “Dream Song 172” says “Your face broods from my table” when addressing one of these events, which leads Henry to “wonder why he alone breasts the wronging tide.” A poem about one of these events ends with the exclamation “O tiny mother, you too! O funny duchess! O blonde thing!” These events are compared to carpenters who “want to know which tools” but “never ask why build” in a poem describing how these events “have a (*) special language.” According to an urban legend, Sara Teasdale’s poem “I Shall Not Care” refers to one of these events. The speaker of a poem describes how she “rocked shut as a seashell” after trying to perform this action. The observations that “rivers are damp” and “drugs cause cramp” appear in a poem listing the inconveniences of various approaches to this action, Dorothy Parker’s “Resumé.” A number of feminist critics have argued that Ted Hughes was largely responsible for one of these events. For 10 points, confessional poets often discussed what action performed by Sylvia Plath in 1963?
suicide [accept equivalents; prompt on death or dying] &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
8

150336-)
The narrator feels as if the gaze of one of these people wishes to take him away at the end of an eleven-paragraph story, each of which describes a different one of these people. In a letter to the publisher Kurt Wolff, a writer cited both “obvious” and “secret” connections among three stories to request that they be published together in a collection named for these people. A character throws off his bedsheets, telling a person with this relationship to him, “I know that you wanted to cover me up!” A 45-page long piece written from the (*) perspective of this kind of person opens with the line “You asked me recently why I maintain that I am afraid of you.” A character learns that a person with this relation to him has become engaged to Frieda Brandenfeld, and later sentences that person with this relation to him to death by drowning, in the story “The Judgment.” A man injures a person with this relation to him by throwing apples at him after that person transforms into a giant insect in The Metamorphosis. For 10 points, name these people who often have troubled relationships with their fathers in Franz Kafka’s works.
sons [accept sohn or Söhne; prompt on children or equivalents] &lt;JN, Short Fiction&gt;
8

150344-)
A poem by this author ends with the line “It touched, it struck it, clattered and went out,” which describes a lantern striking the ground after a couple discovers a man and child walking in the darkness. This author wrote an eight-line poem whose speaker twice assures “I sha’n’t be gone long” and tells the addressee “You come too.” The title event of a poem by this author takes place in a location “so small the window frames the whole of it.” This author of “The Fear” and “The (*) Pasture” wrote a poem whose speaker “cannot rub the strangeness from [his] sight” and wonders if his slumber is “just some human sleep,” from being “overtired of the great harvest I myself desired.” In a poem by this author, a farmer only utters the word “Dead” after learning of the title event. He wrote a poem whose speaker regrets a “frozen-ground-swell” that “spills the upper boulders in the sun,” and is told that “good fences make good neighbours.” For 10 points, name this author whose collection North of Boston contains the poems “Home Burial,” “After Apple-Picking,” “The Death of the Hired Man,” and “Mending Wall.”
Robert Frost [or Robert Lee Frost] &lt;JN, Poetry&gt;
8

150355-)
A resident of this city moves his hands as if playing an imaginary cello during times of great stress. A character is carried around a house in this city on a couch because of her disability, which does not prevent her from flirting with every man she encounters. A character is called back to this city from Italy, where he had been staying for twelve years on the pretense of recovering from a sore throat, despite spending most of his time collecting butterflies. A lawyer in this city named Abraham Haphazard drafts a (*) “Convent Custody Bill” at the end of the chapter “The Jupiter,” which is named for this city’s newspaper. After Grantly’s death, Bishop Proudie and the slimy Obadiah Slope gain control of this city’s cathedral. Septimus Harding’s maintenance of Hiram’s Hospital in this city is the subject of the novel The Warden. For 10 points, what fictional English city’s “Towers” title Anthony Trollope’s (“TRAW-lup’s”) most famous novel?
Barchester [prompt on Barsetshire] &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt; Bonuses
8

150363-)
Gabe Gabriel, whose skin is deemed too light to play African-American roles, goes to one of these locations owned by his friend Johnny Williams in Charles Gordone’s “Black-Black Comedy” No Place to Be Somebody. One of these locations in the DRC is owned by Mama Nadi in Lynn Nottage’s Ruined. In a Steve Martin play, Picasso and Einstein meet at one of these locations. One of these locations is owned by a “bag of (*) bones” who wears extremely misaligned eyeglasses. As a play set in one of these locations ends, a character begins singing La Carmagnole (“car-mahn-YOHL”) before reciting a poem beginning, “The days grow hot, O Babylon!” In that play, Don Parritt confesses to turning in his wife before being urged to suicide by the “old foolosopher” Larry Slade, the only character without “pipe dreams.” For 10 points, Harry Hope owns what kind of establishment visited by “Hickey” in Eugene O’Neill’s The Iceman Cometh?
bar [accept equivalents such as saloon, pub, or tavern; accept cabaret; accept pool hall or poolroom, or brothel since the bar in Ruined is also a poolroom and brothel] &lt;RK, Drama&gt;
8

150369-)
Characters in this novel discuss whether Shakespeare knew about champagne and compare a flaming dessert to natural gas at a tense dinner party attended by a pro-slavery colonel. At this novel’s conclusion, the protagonist and his wife question the morals of a charity-giving banjo-playing woman who has become a nun. The novel Their Wedding Journey first introduced this novel’s protagonist, who settles on an apartment full of (*) “gimcrackery” at the end of an exhaustive search he undertakes with his wife Isabel. The son of an entrepreneur is killed by a stray bullet while trying to save the German translator Lindau during a violent streetcar riot near this novel’s end. The entrepreneur Jacob Dryfoos eventually sells the magazine Every Other Week to this novel’s protagonist, an ex-Boston insurance agent. For 10 points, name this novel about Basil March’s rise in the newspaper industry of Gilded Age New York, written by William Dean Howells.
A Hazard of New Fortunes &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt;
8

150389-)
This novel cites the Malay proverb “If you would forgive your enemy, first inflict a hurt on him” in all caps when the protagonist feels her desire for revenge against another character die out while she is at the opera. At the end of this novel, a man bends over a woman laying on a bed, realizing that “all the conditions of life had conspired to keep them apart.” This novel’s protagonist purchases some letters incriminating a man in an affair, and later secretly (*) burns them while visiting him at the Benedick. During a party hosted by the Brys (“brize”), the protagonist of this novel appears in a tableau vivant (“tahb-LOH vee-VON”) of Joshua Reynolds’s portrait of Mrs. Lloyd. A match between the protagonist of this novel and Percy Gryce is prevented by the scheming of Bertha Dorset. The protagonist of this novel rejects advances from Gus Trenor and is herself rejected in marriage by Simon Rosedale before she takes a fatal draught of chloral. Lawrence Selden fails to declare his love for Lily Bart in, for 10 points, what novel of manners by Edith Wharton?
The House of Mirth &lt;JN, Long Fiction&gt;
8

150400-)
In an essay, this author recalled the “fear of disturbing the stillness of the cathedral” while visiting a place where the sight of a dragonfly makes him realize “that the years were a mirage and there had been no years.” Stephen King wrote that “there is little or no detectable bullshit” in a book revised by this author. This author used an “old willow tree” to symbolize a city that could be destroyed by “a single flight of planes” yet “[bestows] the gift of loneliness” in the essay “Here Is New York.” This author, who popularized the phrase “I say it’s (*) spinach” and called Walden the “one book in his life,” recalled mistaking his son for himself while revisiting a Maine camp in the Harper’s Magazine essay “Once More to the Lake.” This long-time writer for The New Yorker attempted to “write [English’s] rules and principles on the head of a pin” with a writing guide that popularized suggestions like “omit needless words” and “use the active voice.” For 10 points, name this American author who revised his teacher William Strunk’s The Elements of Style.
E. B. White [or Elwyn Brooks White] &lt;RK, Misc Literature&gt;
8

150429-)
It’s not the United States, but an unnamed protagonist of a novel that takes place in this country flees to Los Angeles with “The General” and writes letters to the “Man”. In this country, the setting of the 2016 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel The Sympathizer, the death of Curt Lemon causes Rat Kiley to repeatedly shoot a water buffalo. In this setting of “How to Tell a True War Story”, Ted (*) Lavender dies while Lieutenant Jimmy Cross thinks of his lover Martha. Both of those works are found in Tim O’Brien’s The Things They Carried, which features American soldiers fighting in this country. For 10 points, name this Southeast Asian country that reunified after the 1975 Fall of Saigon.
(Socialist Republic of) Vietnam
3

150463-)
In one of this author’s works, Frank prohesizes that a missing character will return since he was lost on “his favorable day.” In that play, a storm destroys an apple tree planted for that missing character, whose father blames a neighbor for the sale of cracked engine cylinder heads. In another play by this author, a character refuses to sign a confession and defile his (*) name for he "cannot have another in his life." In that play, one character exclaims "More weight!" as stones are placed on him to extract a confession of witchcraft. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote about Joe Keller in All My Sons and who allegorized the McCarthy trials as the Salem Witch Trials in The Crucible.
Arthur Miller
3

150478-)
At the end of a work by this author, a man’s head is described as a “hive of subtlety” and is placed on a pole while the rest of his body is burned. In that work, a figurehead with the words “follow your leaders” is on a ship on which the slave Babo leads a mutiny. In another work by this author, a grub-man is told to look after the title character, who was a coworker of (*) Nippers and Turkey before eventually responding to every request by saying “I would prefer not to.” For 10 points, name this American author, who, in addition to Bartleby the Scrivener wrote about Ishmael’s narration of Captain Ahab’s hunt for a white whale in Moby Dick.
Herman Melville
3

150502-)
This man wrote a work in which an unfaithful wife commits infanticide after being impregnated by her own son-in-law. He wrote a play in which Christine becomes Adam Brant’s mistress and poisons her husband, Ezra Mannon; that play is a retelling of the Oresteia. In another play by this man, a former anarchist causes Don Parritt to jump off a fire escape and is nicknamed the (*) “foolosopher.” In that play, Hickey decries the "pipe dreams" of the customers in Harry Hope’s bar. In the most famous of his plays, this man depicted Mary’s relapse into morphine addiction. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote about the Tyrone family in Long Day’s Journey into Night.
Eugene O’Neill
3

150510-)
In one short story by this author, Ginnie Maddox finds herself unable to discard a chicken sandwich, drawing a parallel between it and an Easter chick. In another work by this author of “Just Before the War with Eskimos,” an army veteran is chastised by a child for sitting next to Sharon Lipschutz. That short story (*), A Perfect Day For Bananafish, is part of a series he wrote about the Glass family. The narrator of his only novel is the former manager of his school’s fencing team and hangs around his sister Phoebe after being kicked out of Pencey Prep. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in The Rye.
Jerome David Salinger [or J. D. Salinger]
3

150526-)
A character from this poem was partially inspired by a similar character, Grip, from Dickens’ Barnaby Rudge. This work’s narrator hears “Seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floors” after the “air grew perfumed from an unseen cancer”. The title character of this work, described as a “prophet” (*) and “a thing of evil”, is asked, “Is there balm in Gilead?” That title figure of this work enters a room “with many flirt and flutter” before perching upon a bust of Pallas and proceeding to repeat “nevermore” to all questions asked of it. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allen Poe poem about an eponymous bird.
“The Raven”
3

150562-)
In one work by this author, the title character has her taxes waived by the mayor of the town, Colonel Sartoris, to assuage the pain of her father’s death. This author documented the downfall of Flem Snopes in "The Hamlet", "The Town", and "The Mansion." Another work by this author is narrated by 15 different characters, including one who steals money in order to buy new (*) teeth. This author documents the thirty year history of the Compson family from the viewpoints of three brothers, including Benjy and Quentin. For 10 points, name this Mississippi author of A Rose for Emily, As I Lay Dying, and The Sound and the Fury.
William (Cuthbert) Faulkner
3

150581-)
This poet is the dedicatee of an Elizabeth Bishop work, The Armadillo. This poet returned the dedication with a poem whose central object is “propped by a plank” and “sticks like a fishbone in the city’s throat”. That poem begins “The old South Boston Aquarium stands in a Sahara of snow now”. (*) Another work by this poet laments “we've lost our summer millionaire, who seemed to leap from an L. L. Bean catalogue. The titular character “jabs her wedge head in a cup of sour cream” and “will not scare” in this poet’s most famous work. For the Union Dead and Skunk Hour were written by, for ten points, this confessional poet.
Robert Lowell
3

150591-)
In one novel, a soldier named Winterbourne commits suicide during this war after finding he can no longer relate to his wife. After his wife leaves for China, the farmer Claude Wheeler enlists to fight in this war in Willa Cather’s novel One of Ours. A character who deserts this war rows all night to escape to (*) Switzerland and had earlier shot a cowardly sergeant for refusing to help lift Aymo’s car out of the mud. A soldier in this war guiltily decides to send money to the family of the printer Gerard Duval, whom he had just stabbed to death, and that protagonist inherits Kemmerich’s boots after the death of Müller. For 10 points, name this global conflict, the setting of All Quiet on the Western Front.
World War One [or WWI or equivalents like First World War]
3

150602-)
A poem by this author includes a title figure telling another that she has been to “places with no carpet on the floor” “where there ain’t no light.” The narrator of one of this man’s poems “will be at the table/when company comes” and claims that people will “be ashamed that I, too, am, America.” In another poem, this poet wonders what will happen to the title object, and considers that it may “dry up like a (*) raisin in the sun.” This poet ends another work by stating “my soul has grown deep like the rivers.” For 10 points, name this poet of the Harlem Renaissance poet who wrote “Mother to Son” and “The Negro Speaks of Rivers.”
Langston Hughes
3

150606-)
In one book by this author, Frank Cowperwood loses his reputation after the Great Chicago fire of 1871 and becomes a scapegoat for some powerful Republicans. Besides The Financier, this author wrote of a salesman who encourages a Wisconsin girl to move out of her sister’s apartment but is reluctant to let her act in a production of “Under the Gaslight.” (*) In that novel, the title character is fooled into marrying Hurstwood after he escaped with her to Canada. In another of his works, a farm girl named Roberta Aiden is murdered by the father of her child, the troubled Clyde Griffith. For 10 points, name this American author of Sister Carrie and An American Tragedy.
Theodore (Herman Albert) Dreiser
3

150642-)
One character in this novel supports a dubious story by showing the narrator a medal from his military service in Montenegro. A golfer in this novel has an incurable habit of dishonesty, a trait the narrator finds attractive. After his wife is run over, a garage owner (*) in this novel hunts the title character and eventually shoots him in a pool. That character earlier hosts a party in which he invites much of West Egg, including his love interest, Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this F. Scott Fitzgerald novel narrated by Nick Carraway that details the exploits of his neighbor in West Egg.
The Great Gatsby
3

150647-)
In the prologue to this play’s first act, a blue piano “expresses the spirit of the life which goes on here.” In one scene in this play, a character repeats “poker should not be played in a house with women” after another exclaims “My baby doll’s left me!” After one character in this play claims to have given magic to people by telling lies, a blind (*) Mexican flower vendor abruptly stumbles into the scene. The protagonist is rejected by Mitch at the end of, for 10 points, what Tennessee Williams play about Stanley and Stella Kowalski that concludes after Blanche DuBois declares “I have always depended on the kindness of strangers”?
A Streetcar Named Desire
3

150681-)
This author sent a set of three mysterious letters to a unknown man whom she simply referred to as “Master.” She wrote “A Service, like a Drum- / Kept beating - beating - till I thought / My Mind was going numb-” in another work. (*) In that poem, “I felt a Funeral, in My Brain”, she recalls how “then a Plank in Reason, broke.” She noted passing the “Field of Grazing Grain” and the “Setting Sun” before pausing at “a House that seemed / A Swelling of the ground.” For 10 points, name this author of “Because I could not stop for death” and “I heard a fly buzzed when I died,” known as the Belle of Amherst.
Emily Dickinson
3

150698-)
One work on this topic describes how “matron and maid / The speechless babe, and the gray-headed man” all gather. A work about this topic opens as the speaker walks “on the sunny pavement of Greenwich Village.” Home is defined as the place “where, when you have to go there, They have to take you in” in a poem whose title figure travels home to experience this phenomenon. Another poem about this topic invokes a figure “who in the love of (*) Nature holds / Communion with her visible forms.” One poem named for this event sees Mary and Warren discuss Silas. Allen Ginsberg wrote Kaddish after this event happened to his mother. For ten points, Thanatopsis is a meditation on what event, which occurs to a Hired man in a Robert Frost poem?
death [accept word forms and reasonable equivalents; accept deaths of specific figures like “death of Naomi Ginsberg” or “death of a hired man”; prompt on “Thanatopsis” or “Kaddish” with “What is that poem about?”, prompt on “meditation” with “About what?” before “Greenwich Village” is read]
3

150714-)
This symbol comes between the letters "L" and "A" in the first line of a 20-letter poem about loneliness and a falling leaf. In another poem, this punctuation mark precedes the lines "and only the snow can begin to explain / how children are apt to forget to remember." The poem "Since feeling is first" ends by noting "life's not a paragraph / and death i think is no" this mark. This punctuation mark sets off the phrase "i (*) carry it in my heart" in the first two lines of the poem "i carry your heart with me." They surround the words "with up so floating many bells down" in the second line of "anyone lived in a pretty how town." For 10 points, name this punctuation mark that, in many E. E. Cummings poems, marks off phrases that break the main flow of words.
parenthesis [or parentheses; or open parenthesis; or close parenthesis; or round brackets; or curved brackets; prompt on brackets] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150729-)
In one story, eight masqueraders dressed as these animals in costumes made of flax and tar are hoisted thirty feet upward by a chain affixed to a pulley and are burnt alive by a torch taken from a caryatid (CARE-yah-tid). The title vengeful dwarf murders a king and seven ministers costumed as these animals in the short story "Hop Frog." In another story, a "shrill voice," heard speaking a language like Spanish to a gruff Frenchman, is (*) revealed to be one of these animals shrieking at the sailor whose ribbon it left on a lightning rod; in that story, the killer of Madame L'Espanaye and her daughter is proven to be one of these creatures by C. Auguste Dupin (see oh-GOOST doo-PAN). For 10 points, name this species of great ape that commits the title crime in Edgar Allan Poe's "Murders in the Rue Morgue."
orangutan [or Pongo borneo; or Pongo pygmaeus; prompt on ape until it is read; prompt on monkey] &lt;Bollinger&gt;
5

150743-)
A character in a story by this author falls in love "like a pistol shot" with a girl standing beneath the same pillar where she was found sleeping as a baby. The protagonist of a story by this author drinks the "very elixir of life" while locked in her room before experiencing what doctors diagnose as "the joy that kills." A man burns a willow cradle because he believes his wife to be part (*) black in a story by this author, who wrote a story in which Louise believes she's been freed by the death of her husband. This author of "Desiree's Baby" and "Story of an Hour" wrote a novel in which a friend of Mademoiselle Reisz ("rise") receives a note from her lover Robert Lebrun, prompting her to walk into the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, name this author of The Awakening.
Kate Chopin [or Katherine O'Flaherty] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150752-)
In one play by this author, stage directions instruct the protagonist to take the pose of Rodin's The Thinker after being expelled from the IWW for calling for terrorism; in that play by this author, a coal stoker's dirty appearance shocks the wealthy Mildred Rogers, who faints after giving him the title nickname. In another play by this author, the title character begs for the electric chair after confessing to shooting his wife, (*) Evelyn, for hoping to reform his alcoholism. Larry Slade and Don Parritt are two regulars of Harry Hope's Saloon, where Theodore Hickman attempts to dissipate his friends' "pipe dreams," in that play by this author. For 10 points, name this American playwright of The Hairy Ape and The Iceman Cometh.
Eugene O'Neil
5

150768-)
A poem by this author describes a man whose invented poetry "was easy to understand," and who caused "little children" to die in the streets "when he cried." A character whose "Health-card" showed he was "once in a hospital" but that he "left it cured" titles another poem by this author; that poem describes "JS/07 M 378," a figure who had "everything necessary to the modern man." Another of this author's poems imagines that "for the miraculous birth" there are (*) children "who did not specially want it to happen." This author of "Epitaph on a Tyrant" and "The Unknown Citizen," proclaimed that "about suffering" the "old Masters" were "never wrong" in a poem meditating on Brueghel's Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. For 10 points, name this poet of "Musée des Beaux Arts" (myoo-ZAY day boh-ZARR).
Wystan Hugh Auden &lt;Jose&gt;
5

150775-)
A character in this novel buys a second-hand Studebaker and heads West because Willy the Disk is searching for him. An organization in this novel has ties to Clem and Jody, who sell ergot-infested wheat. In this novel, creatures called Mugwumps attend a market where dealers sell a giant centipede as Black Meat. Its narrator promises to deliver Marty Steel before shooting the officers Hauser and O'Brien from the City (*) Narcotics Squad. Dr. Benway treats this novel's narrator at the Reconditioning Center in the Freeland Republic, where he is given Eukodol for rehab from his heroin addiction. For 10 points, name this novel about a junkie who travels to Tangier and Interzone, written by William S. Burroughs.
Naked Lunch &lt;Grames&gt;
5

150807-)
The protagonist of a story by this author is embarrassed at once having stolen a butcher's tricycle with Lorraine Quarrles, who hounds him for the address to his hotel. Another of his protagonists declares that "Everybody's youth is a dream, a form of chemical madness," after escaping the demolition of a mountain in the wake of a failed bribe to God. This author wrote a story in which a man loses custody of his daughter (*) Honoria after locking his wife out in the snow. In a long story by this author of "Babylon Revisited," Percy Washington invites John Unger to his family's palatial off-the-grid estate built near a massive gemstone in Montana. For 10 points, name this author of "The Diamond As Big as the Ritz" and Jazz Age-evoking novels like Tender is the Night.
F. Scott Fitzgerald [or Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald] &lt;Gupta&gt;
5

150821-)
A former Christian in this novel is fired from building a doghouse when he tells the owner that God will explain blueprints to her. A xylophone virtuoso in this novel tries to make herself ugly to stop being an erotic symbol according to an index of P. Castle's manuscript. In this novel, Hazel lists people who are Hoosiers, which the narrator gives as an example of a (*) granfalloon or false karass. Asa Breed describes the military's struggles with mud to this novel's narrator for his research on Dr. Hoenikker. In this novel, Bokononists press their bare feet together as a religious ritual, and Papa Monzano commits suicide by ingesting ice-nine. For 10 points, name this novel by Kurt Vonnegut.
Cat's Cradle &lt;Grames&gt;
5

150837-)
A character in this book describes "the old, old problem" of deciding between "celibacy, matrimony, or unchastity" before declaring "hear me, ambitious souls, sex is the curse of life!" Another of its characters is a dentist who declares "a moral truth is a hollow tooth / which must be propped with gold". Its final section, which opens with an interrupted checkers game after which Beelzebub meets with Loki and Yogarindra, follows a fragmentary mock-epic credited to (*) Jonathan Swift Somers. The first poem in this collection notes that "Old Fiddler Jones" now babbles about "what Abe Lincoln said / one time at Springfield", as he, like "Elmer, Herman, Bert, Tom and Charley", are "sleeping on the hill". For 10 points, name this book by Edgar Lee Masters.
Spoon River Anthology &lt;Carson&gt;
5

150850-)
A character in this play boasts that he "got the power of death" after murdering a cat as a child when a priest failed to resurrect his dog. In the final scene of this play, a train is heard approaching as a "rustle of wind across two continents" dismisses an unseen force that repeatedly knocks a character down the stairs. In this play, a (*) boxcar fire that killed several hobos is cited as the origin of the Ghosts of Yellow Dog in a story told by Doaker. Berniece exorcises Sutter's ghost from the title object of this play, which corresponds to the 1930s in its author's Pittsburgh Cycle. For 10 points, name this August Wilson play in which Boy Willie attempts to sell the title instrument.
The Piano Lesson &lt;Bollinger&gt; Bonuses
5

150853-)
A form of one of these events in African-American tradition provides the title for Yaa Gyasi's (JAH-see's) novel Homegoing. The speaker of a poem relates that "all the Heavens were a bell / and Being, but an ear" during a figurative description of one of these events, whose participants are described as "treading – treading – till it seemed / that Sense was breaking through." In Act III of Our Town, along with a birthday party, the ghost of (*) Emily Gibbs observes this type of event, which Emily Dickinson described feeling "in [her] Brain." Henry Gatz and the partygoer Owl Eyes are two of the handful of attendees at one of them in The Great Gatsby. For 10 points, name this type of event that Tom Sawyer watches conducted for himself after faking his death.
funerals [or burials; or funeral services] &lt;Bollinger&gt;
5

150868-)
This character recalls how he found another's lost gold locket in some moss during a picnic at Shadow Pond. This character imagines the sentence "We never got away—how should you?" written on every stone in his family's graveyard. In the first chapter, this character watches a woman in a cherry scarf dancing through the window of a church basement, then drives her home. A cat walking on the (*) table ends an intimate supper that this character has with his love interest after another woman goes to Bettsbridge for the night to see a doctor. This character steers for the "big elm" in a failed suicide attempt after his wife Zeena tries to send Mattie Silver away. For 10 points, name this resident of Starkfield, a sled crash victim who titles a novel by Edith Wharton.
Ethan Frome [or Ethan Frome] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150915-)
In a poem written in this modern country, the speaker declares "make me, O Lord, Thy Spinning Wheel Complete". A 224-stanza poem consisting of a "poetical description of the Great and Last Judgement" called "The Day of Doom" was incredibly popular in this modern country, which was the adopted home of the author of "Huswifery". Another poet who moved to this country wrote a poem that begins "If ever (*) two were one, then surely we", and used the phrase "thou ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain" to describe her first collection, whose title claims the "Tenth Muse" had "Lately Sprung Up" in this country. Michael Wigglesworth and Edward Taylor were both colonial settlers of, for 10 points, what modern country that was also the adopted home of Anne Bradstreet?
the United States of America or U.S.A. [accept any underlined portion; accept colonial America] &lt;Carson&gt;
5

150944-)
One of these two people organized an proto-crowdfunding initiative called Bel Esprit to bankroll the other. In Bob Dylan's "Desolation Row," "calypso singers laugh at" these two people as they fight "in the captain's tower." One of these two people convinced the other to abandon superfluous sections of a poem provisionally titled "He Do the Police in Different Voices;" in gratitude, the second of these two people addressed the first as (*) "il miglior (meel-YORE) fabbro" in that poem's dedication. Critics of these poets' reactionary politics often cite anti-Semitic quotations from such works as "Gerontion" and Jefferson and/or Mussolini. For 10 points, name these collaborative Modernist poets, one of whom, the author of The Cantos, significantly edited the other's "The Waste Land."
Ezra Pound AND Thomas Stearns Eliot &lt;Bollinger&gt;
5

150960-)
When asked how he went bankrupt, a cantankerous character in this novel quips: "Gradually, and then suddenly." A woman in this novel is awaiting a divorce from a man whose revolver she used to unload every night. After his magazine fails, a writer in this novel moves to Paris with the social climber Frances Clyne. At the end of this novel, a woman laments: "we could have had such a damned good time together," to which the protagonist replies: "Yes… Isn't it (*) pretty to think so?" In this novel, whose epigraph quotes Gertrude Stein's declaration that "you are all a lost generation," Robert Cohn beats up the matador Pedro Romero the night before a bullfight in Pamplona. For 10 points, name this novel in which Lady Brett Ashley eludes Jake Barnes, by Ernest Hemingway.
The Sun Also Rises &lt;Gupta&gt;
5

150986-)
This poet declared that "two poetries are ever competing, a cooked and a raw" in an acceptance speech for a 1960 National Book Award. This author wrote a poem that declares "the season's ill" because "we've lost our summer millionaire, who seemed to leap from an L. L. Bean catalogue." That poem, which is dedicated to Elizabeth Bishop, declares that "nobody's here" except an animal that "drops her (*) ostrich tail, and will not scare." The speaker of another poem by this writer contemplates the shuttered South Boston Aquarium before reflecting that a Saint-Gaudens relief "sticks like a fishbone in the city's throat." A review of this man's Life Studies first described poetry as "confessional." For 10 points, name this author of "Skunk Hour" and "For the Union Dead."
Robert Lowell [or Robert Traill Spence Lowell IV; or "Cal" Lowell] &lt;Kothari&gt;
5

151006-)
One character in this novel skips school every Thursday by wearing an eyepatch and pretending he has to go to the ophthalmologist. In this work, a German naval officer asked about his decision to sink the Ark of Miriam replies, "They were children; we were wolves." One of this work's protagonists cuts Salvador Dali out of a diving suit at a party, which leads Rosa Saks to fall in love with him. A gay man in this novel kisses the other protagonist after visiting him at midnight at the top of the (*)Empire State Building; that character, Tracy Bacon, voices the radio version of the protagonists' most famous character, the Escapist. For 10 points, name this novel about comic book writers Sammy and Joe that was written by Michael Chabon (SHAY-bon).
The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay &lt;Venkus&gt;
5

151025-)
The protagonist of this novel mocks book-reading while arguing against predestination in a speech that repeats his claim to be a racially-pure "man without a cross." In this novel, a massacre begins when a man hits a baby after its mother wraps it in a colorful shawl. A comic relief character in this novel, the zealous singing master David, is wounded when characters escape a cavern behind a waterfall. In this novel, "La Longue Carabine" thwarts the (*) burning of three prisoners tied to trees. This novel opens with Duncan Heyward leading Cora and Alice to Fort William Henry, and climaxes with a cliffside battle in which Uncas dies. For 10 points, name this novel in which Hawkeye's friend Chingachgook becomes the title character, a work of James Fenimore Cooper.
The Last of the Mohicans &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151055-)
A polio epidemic strikes a summer camp in this state in a 2010 novel whose author claimed it to be his last. Nemesis is set in this state, also the setting of a novella in which a fruit-filled refrigerator unnerves a man who decides to end his relationship with the assimilated Brenda Patimkin. A high school reunion in this state is where a writer learns about the life and recent death of Seymour (*) "Swede" Levov. A character from this state starts a relationship with "the Monkey" after fleeing his stifling family home in this state in a novel framed as a psychotherapy session. Goodbye, Columbus and American Pastoral are set in, and Nathan Zuckerman and Alexander Portnoy are from, for 10 points, what US state, where native son Philip Roth was born in Newark?
New Jersey [prompt on NJ] &lt;Carson&gt;
5

151072-)
A chapter of this novel describes the narrator waiting at a bridge for a woman with "sharp earrings" whose face she wants. A character in this novel puzzles over the protagonist's mouth in a newspaper photograph while an old man talks about the time he started a 90-person feast by picking two pails of blackberries. In this novel, a ferryman intervenes during a pivotal scene set in a woodshed, which occurs after the man who had burnt Sixo alive, nicknamed (*) schoolteacher, arrives on horseback. At this novel's end, Paul D realizes that the protagonist has chosen to die. The main character of this novel gives birth to Denver while escaping to 124 Bluestone Road. For 10 points, the baby whom Sethe murdered to save from slavery titles what novel by Toni Morrison?
Beloved &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151092-)
In one story by this author, the 104-year-old general George Poker Sash dies onstage in a wheelchair at a graduation before his granddaughter Sally collects her diploma. In another story by this author, a man sneers, "I've been believing in nothing ever since I was born" to a philosophy Ph.D. who often quotes Malebranche; that Bible salesman, Manley Pointer, steals a (*) wooden leg from Hulga Hopewell. In a story by this author of "A Late Encounter with the Enemy" and "Good Country People," the antagonist tells his mook Bobby Lee that "It's no real pleasure in life" after killing Bailey's family. For 10 points, name this author who created the Misfit in "A Good Man is Hard to Find."
(Mary) Flannery O'Connor &lt;Bollinger&gt;
5

151112-)
This character suggests that every man "see to the restoration of his own land" in a refusal to join men with "sheets and hoods and night-galloping horses." This character is dubbed a "man-horse-demon" and an "ogre" by a woman who wears black widow's clothes for forty-three years. This character begins formulating his "Design" as an adolescent after a house slave orders him to deliver a letter through the back door of a plantation. This character's son Henry murders (*) Charles Bon to prevent him from marrying this man's daughter Judith at the gates of a mansion he built at his namesake "Hundred." For 10 points, name this plantation owner whose downfall is discussed by Quentin and Shreve in William Faulkner's Absalom, Absalom.
Thomas Sutpen [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Bollinger&gt;
5

151130-)
The protagonist of a novel titled for this entity is forced to pose for visitors at the Museum of Natural Wonders and is pursued by Ridgeway. The first National Park Service site commemorating this thing was a museum opened in Cincinnati in 2004. In a 2016 Colson Whitehead novel, Cora and Caesar use a literal version of this thing. A book of its "records" was published by William (*) Still, while Eric Foner's "hidden history" of it profiled the New York Vigilance Committee. Personal Liberty Laws assisted people using this entity, who were not actually given information about it by quilts or by the song "Follow the Drinking Gourd". Many Quakers served as "conductors" on, for 10 points, what collection of informal routes used by slaves to escape to freedom?
the Underground Railroad &lt;Bentley&gt;
5

151134-)
After browsing a library containing Paracelsus and Roger Bacon, a woman in this story weeps against the cover of a journal recording how all the projects of a man's life have fallen short of their aims. A character in this story demonstrates a photographic plate, then dissolves it in a jar of acid when the image comes out blurry. Near the end of this story, a "gross, hoarse chuckle" is heard from a character described as having "indescribable (*) earthiness," the hairy servant Aminadab. A scientist in this story invents a potion to purge away a "Crimson Hand" representing "sin," inadvertently killing his wife Georgiana. For 10 points, name this story in which Aylmer tries to cure his wife of the title blemish, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
"The Birth-Mark" &lt;Bollinger&gt;
5

151157-)
This periodical published an essay that concludes with a call to "end the racial nightmare, and achieve our country;" that essay, "Letter from a Region in my Mind," became the second section of James Baldwin's The Fire Next Time. The basketball profile "A Sense of Where You Are" was one of John McPhee's many contributions to this periodical, which rose to prominence under Harold Ross. In 1946, this magazine devoted a full issue to (*) John Hersey's report on the Hiroshima bombing. This magazine received an unprecedented flood of angry letters for a story in which Tessie Hutchinson draws a paper slip with a black spot. For 10 points, name this magazine that published Shirley Jackson's "The Lottery," whose covers often feature the monocled Eustace Tilley.
The New Yorker &lt;Bollinger&gt;
5

151173-)
Characters created by an author of this ethnicity include Darius, who claims that fat clouds are God, and Alicia, whose father claims the mice she sees are imaginary. In another novel, a character of this ethnicity learns about a god who became a golden carp and later buries his mentor's magical owl. A character of this ethnicity is offered a dollar for a kiss by a "bum man" while walking around in high heels, then is abandoned by (*) Sally and raped at a carnival. The author of Bless Me, Ultima shares this ethnicity with the author of a novel consisting of poem-like vignettes about Esperanza, who lives in The House on Mango Street. For 10 points, identify this ethnicity of Rudolfo Anaya and Sandra Cisneros, two authors of Chicano literature.
Mexican-American [or Chicano or Chicana until "Chicano" is read; prompt on Latino, Latina, or Hispanic] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151184-)
A character with this profession has his car pulled out of a ravine by Sonny's mule. Another character with this job tells the story of a popular man who died in his "green velvet slippers" on a train-ride as an example of a person who was "well liked," not just "liked." R. J. Bowman, a man of this profession, dies of a heart attack at the end of a Eudora Welty story. Flute music heralds scenes in which a person with this job imagines talking to a man who got rich in (*) Africa, his brother Ben. That character with this job angers his son by having an affair with The Woman in Boston and crashes his car to provide life insurance money for Linda, Biff, and Happy. For 10 points, name this profession practiced by Willy Loman in an Arthur Miller play about his death.
a salesman [or a travelling salesman; or a shoe salesman] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151196-)
A child named Little Chuck Little almost pulls a knife on a member of this family who constantly has lice in his hair and only attends the first day of Caroline Fisher's first grade class before becoming delinquent. The oldest child of this family grows red geraniums outside her home and saves nickels to purchase ice cream for her siblings. After one member of this family is humiliated at a trial, he terrorizes the widow Helen. The sheriff (*) Heck Tate puts in his report that the head of this family "fell on his own knife" after attacking a child. It is strongly implied that Mayella, a member of this family, is beaten by her father for trying to seduce Tom Robinson. For 10 points, Bob is the drunken patriarch of what disgraceful family in To Kill a Mockingbird?
Ewell [pronounced "you"-ull; but accept phonetic pronunciations] &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151222-)
A hundred men of "Hyperborean extraction" come to work at this location, from which they ship their product off to places like Bombay and Charleston. A chapter about the "Former Inhabitants" of this place includes Hugh Quoil, a drunkard who fought at Waterloo and occupied Lyman's tenement. While staying at this location, an author wrote the travelogue A Week on the (*) Concord and Merrimack Rivers. The chapter "Where I Lived and What I Lived For" describes the author's residence at this place. That author built a cabin and planted his own bean-field during the two years, two months, and two days he spent living at this location, a experience described in a book subtitled "Life in the Woods." For 10 points, name this pond that titles a book by Henry David Thoreau.
Walden Pond &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151227-)
This author wrote "I'll go out in the frosty dark and sing most terribly" in a poem whose speaker refuses to sing a "May song." This author described "two who are Mostly Good, two who have lived their day" in a poem in which "plain chipware on a plain and creaking wood" is used for the "casual affair" of dinner. This author of "The Crazy Woman" fictionalized her youth in the (*) Bronzeville neighborhood in her poetry collection Annie Allen. This one-time Poet Laureate of Illinois wrote the collection The Bean Eaters, which includes a poem set at the Golden Shovel in which the title figures "skip school," "jazz June," and "die soon." For 10 points, name this first African-American author to win the Pulitzer Prize in poetry, the author of "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Brooks &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151240-)
In preparation for these events, five crates of oranges and lemons arrive at their location every Friday. After leaving one of these events, two men crash into a ditch when the wheel of their car comes off. During one of these events, a character exclaims "this fella's a regular Belasco!" while examining books in a library; that character is nicknamed for his (*) owl-eyed spectacles. A cheating golf champion named Jordan Baker is told "amazing things" at one of these events. Music like "Jazz History of the World" plays at these events, which occur in a mansion that lies across the bay from a green dock light in West Egg. For 10 points, name these events attended by Nick Carraway and hosted by the title character of F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Great Gatsby.
Jay Gatsby's parties [or party scenes from The Great Gatsby] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151252-)
The protagonist of this novel resorts to shooting nine angry challengers with his revolver after his rival strips him of his lasso. The protagonist of this novel repaires a well to cause water to flow again into the Valley of Holiness. The novel's hero's nostalgia for a telephone operator leads him to name his child Hello-Central, and he gets called "The Boss" after using explosives to cause a rival (*) magician's tower to crumble. Five hundred warriors on bicycles are dispatched by Clarence to save this novel's hero after he goes undercover as a commoner with the King. Its protagonist successfully predicts an eclipse after he wakes up in the custody of Sir Kay. For 10 points, name this Mark Twain novel in which Hank Morgan travels back in time to Camelot.
A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court &lt;Bentley&gt;
5

151263-)
In the prefatory section of this novel, a man unties a package held together with "faded red tape," which contains a manuscript authorized by Governor Shirley and written by Jonathan Pue. One character in this novel, who is described as "well stricken in years," gained knowledge of "native herbs" during his year long captivity with Indians and is constantly referred to as "The Leech." This novel begins with a section called "The (*) Custom House." A character in this novel dies after giving his sermon on Election Day because he was driven to insanity by Arthur Dimmesdale. In this novel, Roger Chillingworth leaves his inheritance to the child Pearl. For 10 points, name this novel about the consequences of Hester Prynne's adultery, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The Scarlet Letter &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151278-)
At this novel's end, the protagonist gives birth to a baby girl who she decides will go to Vassar one day. Vida Sherwin and Guy Pollock elect this novel's protagonist as part of a group that eventually puts on a performance of The Girl of Kankakee after Bernard Shaw is deemed to be too "highbrow." This novel's protagonist spends two years in Washington D.C. after the failure of her work with women's groups like the (*) Jolly Seventeen and the Thanatopsis Club. This novel's opening is set in Minneapolis, where the main character's future husband Will courts her before they resettle in Gopher Prairie. Carol Kennicott tries to change the humdrum townspeople in, for 10 points, what novel by Sinclair Lewis named for a small-town road?
Main Street &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151294-)
A character in this novel asks to be brought a copy of Cherbuliez's Paule Méré, whose plot mirrors that of this work. Another character in this novel talks about a doctor in Schenectady, Mr. Davis, who sought to cure her dyspepsia. Mrs. Costello, the aunt of this novel's protagonist, is shocked that her nephew accompanies the title character from Vevey to the Chateau de (*) Chillon. Mrs. Walker ostracizes the title character because she walks about Rome too much with Italian men like Mr. Giovanelli, and that character eventually contracts malaria after a nighttime visit to the Colosseum. For 10 points, name this novella in which Frederick Winterbourne falls for an innocent American girl traveling in Europe, written by Henry James.
Daisy Miller: A Study &lt;Kothari&gt;
5

151298-)
Benjamin Franklin is said to have begun this practice in 1790 in a rulebook that is shown to the protagonist by Stoneman and Black. When her property undergoes this action, an old woman quotes the words "Play the man, Master Ridley" before dying because she refuses to leave. A character whose job involves this action is given a "green bullet" two-way radio by a professor, after which he turns off the TV (*) walls of his parlour and reads "Dover Beach" to his wife's friends. Captain Beatty leads an organization for this activity that employs the robotic "Mechanical Hound." A novel centered on it opens by stating "It was a pleasure to" perform this action. For 10 points, Guy Montag and the firemen engage in what censorship activity in Ray Bradbury's novel Fahrenheit 451?
book burning [or obvious equivalents indicating destroying books; or being a fireman until "firemen" is read; prompt on burning alone; prompt on censorship; do not accept or prompt on "fire fighting"] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151316-)
In a poem about this event, the speaker answers "Pictures of growing spring and farms and homes" to the question "what shall I hang on these walls?" Another poem tells this event's subject that "For you they call, the swaying mass, their eager faces turning." A poem about this event addresses an "orb sailing the heaven" and describes a "shy and hidden bird" who sings a "carol of death"; that poem inspired by this event notes "the great (*) star early droop'd in the western sky." A poem's title character, who stands for this event's victim, is told "our fearful trip is done" before the speaker sees him fallen on the deck. For 10 points, name this murder lamented in "When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd" and "O Captain! My Captain!" by Walt Whitman.
assassination of Abraham Lincoln [or obvious equivalents indicating the death of Abraham Lincoln; prompt on the U.S. Civil War] &lt;Brownstein&gt; Bonuses
5

151335-)
This sort of object provides the surname of an innkeeper who owns a mysterious smoked-over oil painting and tells the protagonist that another character is out peddling shrunken heads. In the first chapter of the novel in which he appears, that protagonist describes finding himself stopping before warehouses full of these objects. A character climbs into one of these objects with an idol named Yojo after falling (*) ill with a fever and later decorates it with carvings. A canoe-like object of this sort is reworked by a carpenter into a life-buoy. One of these objects made by Queequeg emerges from a whirlpool after the Pequod sinks. For 10 points, Moby Dick ends with Ishmael floating on what sort of object, usually used to store dead bodies?
coffins [prompt on canoes, buoys, or sea chests] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151355-)
The speaker tells this figure that the "thick air is murderous. I would breathe water" at the end of the poem "Full Fathom Five." This figure is told "all by yourself, you are pithy and historical as the Roman Forum" in the poem "The Colossus." A picture of this person depicts him standing at a blackboard with a "cleft in [the] chin instead of [the] foot." This person is described as "Marble-heavy, a bag full of God, (*) ghastly statue with one gray toe" in a poem titled for him that opens with the line "You do not do, you do not do." That poem tells this person that there's "a stake in your fat black heart" before proclaiming "you bastard, I'm through." For 10 points, identify this person compared to "a man in black with a Meinkampf look" in a Sylvia Plath poem.
Sylvia Plath's father [or Daddy; or Otto Plath] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151358-)
A poem lamenting the treatment of veterans of this war describes a soldier who "feeds on praise, lost in the abyss of want." A poem set during this war describes the "bleating of the flock and the twitter of birds" before imagining "one [who] was safe and asleep in his bed" but would be dead the next day. Another poem which describes this war begins "By the (*) rude bridge that arched the flood" and describes the flag flown by "embattled farmers." Philip Freneau is called the poet of this war. "Hardly a man is still alive" who remembers a night during this war on which the title character of a poem uses a light in the North Church tower as a signal. For 10 points, name this war whose opening is the setting of Emerson's "Concord Hymn" and Longfellow's "Paul Revere's Ride."
American Revolution [or Revolutionary War] &lt;Brownstein&gt; Bonuses
5

151359-)
The first Bollingen Prize was controversially awarded for the partial completion of this literary work, whose 36th section opens with a translation of Guido Cavalcanti's Donna mi pregha. This poem, whose first section is a free verse adaptation of the underworld visit in the Odyssey, features a section in which Robert Browning is told "there can be but one Sordello!" In the "Fifth Decad" of this poem, its author delivers an invective against usury. The later sections of this poem incorporate (*) Chinese ideograms. "Rock-Drill," and "Pisan" are portions of this poem, which was partly inspired by the author's fascism and arrest in Genoa. For 10 points, name this multi-part poem by Ezra Pound, whose name comes from the Italian for "songs."
The Cantos [accept The Pisan Cantos before "pregha"] &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151383-)
A character in this novel has a thrilling experience while listening to a radio recording of Beethoven's "Eroica" Symphony through the window of a suburban house. That character in this novel tries to increase her popularity by hosting a "prom" at her house, where the cook Portia works. In this novel, a man goes by the name Buddy despite being named Karl Marx by his father Doctor Copeland. A man in this novel presents a (*) card to the people he meets that explains how to communicate with him, and that man's Greek best friend is sent to an asylum at this novel's beginning. In this novel, Biff Brannon owns a cafe at which Jake Blount and Mick Kelly befriend the deaf-mute John Singer. For 10 points, name this novel by Carson McCullers.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter &lt;Sy&gt;
5

151419-)
On Thanksgiving Day, this atheist chooses not to sleep with a friend of Dori Duz, and instead has a debate with her, claiming that the God in whom he does not believe is actually sadistic. This man is arrested after the brutal murder of the maid Michaela. The novel in which this character appears begins by stating "It was love at first sight" to describe this man's relationship with Chaplain Tappman. When this character realizes that (*) Orr is alive, he plans an escape to Sweden. This man's training lieutenant commander is obsessed with throwing parades and is named Lieutenant Scheisskopf. This B-25 Bombardier is stationed on the island of Pianosa and cannot get out of flying missions. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Joseph Heller's Catch-22.
John Yossarian [prompt on John] &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151436-)
A character in this novel is forbidden from attending the funeral of a yellow mule which her husband had bought from its abusive owner. In this novel, a town gets its first streetlamp thanks to that man, who had been elected mayor after buying 200 acres and opening a store and post office. Interest in this novel was revived by an essay about "looking" for its author by Alice Walker. After kissing Johnny Walker under a flowering pear tree, this novel's protagonist is (*) married off by her grandmother. During a flood following a hurricane in this novel, a man is bitten by a rabid dog. The protagonist of this novel tells Phoebe about her marriages to Logan Killicks, Joe Starks, and Tea Cake. For 10 points, name this novel about Janie Crawford by Zora Neale Hurston.
Their Eyes Were Watching God &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151445-)
While visiting this place, Howard W. Campbell Jr. tries to recruit men for the Free American Corps. This building's residents work at a factory spooning malt syrup into bottles. A character whispers the address of this building while being rescued by Austrian ski instructors from a plane crash that kills a barbershop quartet on their way to an optometrists' convention. After this building's (*) destruction, the theft of a teacup prompts the execution by firing squad of Edgar Derby. The protagonist revisits this building while being kept with Montana Wildhack in a Tralfamadorian zoo by becoming "unstuck in time." For 10 points, name this building where Billy Pilgrim is imprisoned before its destruction during the bombing of Dresden in a namesake Kurt Vonnegut novel.
Slaughterhouse-Five [or the prison from Slaughterhouse-Five or similar answers; prompt on "Dresden"] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151472-)
A poem by this author imagines a "splendid city, crown'd with endless day, whose twice six gates on radiant hinges ring" where the addressee, the painter "S.M.," will no longer paint "Damon" or "Aurora." One of this author's poems advises Christians to remember that certain people "may be refined and join th' angelic train." One of this author's poems states "Proceed, great chief, with virtue on thy side" and begins "Celestial (*) choir! enthron'd in realms of light." This poet addressed a "happy saint" in an elegy on George Whitefield's death and opened another poem with the line "mercy brought me from my pagan land." For 10 points, name this author of "To His Excellency George Washington" and "On Being Brought from Africa to America," an early female African-American poet.
Phillis Wheatley &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151487-)
A literary character from this area, Dylan Ebdus, gives his friend Mingus Rude a magic ring so that he can become the superhero "Aeroman." A famous poet edited this area's Eagle newspaper. This area is the setting of The Fortress of Solitude and other works by writer Jonathan Lethem. In a poem titled for it, the speaker claims "[this area], of ample hills, was mine" and admits "I am he who knew what it was to be evil." The speaker notes "distance (*) avails not, and place avails not" in a poem that mentions people traveling to this area "attired in the usual costumes." People traveling to this area "furnish [their] parts toward the soul" in a poem beginning "Flood-tide below me!" For 10 points, name this New York borough travelled to by ferry in a Walt Whitman poem.
Brooklyn [prompt on New York or the United States of America before "New York" is read] &lt;Weiser&gt;
5

151507-)
A poem titled for this figure describes a friend's notched pencil and claims that this figure "sets a thing significant." Another poem ends by comparing a phenomenon to "the Distance on the look of" this figure. A poem titled for this figure notes that "The Dews drew quivering and chill" and describes a "School, where Children strove at Recess in the Ring." This figure "knew (*) no haste" in a poem in which "we paused before a House that seemed a swelling in the ground." In that poem titled for this figure, the speaker recalls the day she "surmised the Horses' Heads were toward Eternity" after entering this figure's carriage. For 10 points, name this abstract figure which the speaker "could not stop for" in an Emily Dickinson poem.
Death &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151532-)
In one of this author's poems, the "Socrates of Snails" and "musician of pears" seeks to make a "new intelligence prevail" in the section "The Idea of a Colony." Another of this author's poems describes a "listener, who listens in the snow" and beholds "Nothing that is not there and the nothing that is." An animal traces "an indecipherable cause" into an icicle-filled window made of "barbaric glass" in a poem by this author of "The (*) Comedian as the Letter C." That poem by this man asks "O thin men of Haddam, Why do you imagine golden birds?" and describes how "Among twenty snowy mountains, the only moving thing" was the eye of the title creature. For 10 points, name this poet whose collection Harmonium contains "Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird."
Wallace Stevens &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151539-)
One of this author's stories is partially set in a pentagonal room in which there are five gigantic sarcophagi made of Luxor granite. A character in that story by this author writes a poem that includes the line "the play is the tragedy, 'Man.'" The narrator of one of this author's stories witnesses his second wife Lady Rowena Trevanion dying and transforming into his first wife, who had previously composed the poem "The (*) Conqueror Worm." Another of this author's stories, which opens by describing a man who out-Heroded Herod, takes place during a masquerade hosted in six rooms of different colors; in that story by this author, Prince Prospero is killed by the title plague. For 10 points, name this author of the short stories "Ligeia" and "The Masque of the Red Death."
Edgar Allan Poe [or Edgar Poe &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151562-)
In a short story by this author, a 104-year-old general yells about kissing "pretty guls" while on stage at a graduation. Another story by this author climaxes with a woman exclaiming "You're one of my babies. You're one of my own children!" One of this author's characters reveals the whiskey and cards he keeps in a bible case before leaving a hayloft with (*) Hulga's artificial leg. After a stop at the Tower restaurant, characters created by this author of "A Late Encounter with the Enemy" try to visit a mansion that is actually in Tennessee. In a story by this author of "Good Country People," a car crash precipitates the grandmother's encounter with the Misfit. For 10 points, name this author of Southern Gothic stories such as "A Good Man is Hard to Find."
Flannery O'Connor [or Mary Flannery O'Connor] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151582-)
This poet described hearing "the murmur of underground streams" when trying to "imagine a faultless love or the life to come" in a poem about the "one landscape that we, the inconstant ones, are consistently homesick for." Another of this poet's landscapes includes a kind of scene that unfolds while others are "just walking dully along." That landscape includes an "expensive delicate ship," a (*) plowman who "may have heard the splash, the forsaken cry," and a pair of "white legs disappearing into the green water." That poem by this man opens with the observation "About suffering, they were never wrong, the Old Masters" and describes Breguel's Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. For 10 points, name this poet of "In Praise of Limestone" and "Musee des Beaux Arts."
Wystan Hugh Auden &lt;Mehigan&gt;
5

151588-)
Richard Nixon's question "What?" is the epigraph of the fourth section of this novel, in which the protagonist dreams that he is Fay Wray during the episode "An Incident in the Transvestite's Toilet." This novel details the history of an immortal "conveyor of light energy" named Byron the Light Bulb in a section set in "The Zone." This novel, whose fourth section is "The Counterforce," opens by depicting the banana breakfast of Pirate Penzance. Captain Blicero creates a device with (*) serial number "00000" in this novel, in which Teddy Bloat photographs a map correlating the protagonist's sexual activity to V-2 rocket impact sites. For 10 points, name this postmodern novel about Tyrone Slothrop's travels across war-torn Europe, written by Thomas Pynchon.
Gravity's Rainbow &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151592-)
In a short story by this author, a wife is sent to the "booby hatch" after telling the authorities that her husband claimed to have seen the title animal. A character created by this author remains "inscrutable to the last." A story by this writer features the repeated noise "pocketa-pocketa-pocketa," during a sequence in which "The Commander" and "Lieutenant Berg" pilot a Navy (*) hydroplane. This author included his story "The Unicorn in the Garden" in the collection Fables for Our Time. The New Yorker first ran one of this writer's stories in which the title character imagines testifying in court, performing a surgery, and facing a firing squad as he waits for his wife to return from a drug store. For 10 points, name this author of "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty."
James Thurber [James Grover Thurber] &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151618-)
The speaker of a poem by this author tells a man that "Sometimes perhaps you don't want to be a part of me" and states "I like a pipe for Christmas, or records." Another poem by this author imagines a "Tomorrow" when "Nobody'll dare say to me, 'Eat in the kitchen.'" This author described how "the stars went out and so did the moon" before a character sleeps "like a (*) rock or a man that's dead" in his poem about a man on a "rickety stool" who drones "a drowsy syncopated tune." One of this writer's poems repeats that "my soul has grown deep" like the title places. For 10 points, name this leading figure of the Harlem Renaissance and poet of "I, Too," "Theme for English B," "The Weary Blues," and "The Negro Speaks of Rivers."
Langston Hughes [or James Mercer Langston Hughes] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151636-)
A recurring speech in this novel begins with variants on "Guys like us are the loneliest guys in the world." In this novel, a woman discusses her ambitions to be an actress in a scene punctuated by the sounds of a game of horseshoes. In this novel, after an old, lame sheepdog is taken away to be shot, a man is insulted for wearing a "glove fulla Vaseline." While his friend is at a brothel, a character in this novel visits a black stable buck with a (*) crippled spine known as Crooks. While thinking about growing alfalfa and "living on the fatta the lan'," that character in this novel is shot in the back of the head to save him from a mob angry over the death of Curley's wife. For 10 points, name this novel about George and the rabbit-loving Lenny by John Steinbeck.
Of Mice and Men &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151692-)
The protagonist of this book trips and rolls down a hill after meeting his love interest outside a county fairground. At the end of this book, its protagonist departs on a train, with his mind "carried away by his growing passion for dreams." Kate Swift, a teacher whose naked body is observed by the Reverend Curtis Hartman, feels the "passionate desire to be loved by a man" after seeing the protagonist of this book. In the (*) story "Sophistication," Helen White kisses this book's protagonist, who works for the Eagle. Wing Biddlebaum's propensity to touch young people is the subject of this book's story "Hands." For 10 points, name this book about journalist George Willard's observations of life in a small Midwestern town, by Sherwood Anderson.
Winesburg, Ohio &lt;Sy&gt;
5

151696-)
This character imagines the “pine-trees, aged, black, and solemn” as elders and smites down their children, “the ugliest weeds.” This character uses grass to adorn her dress so it looks like that of the Leech’s wife and, in another scene, claims she has “no Heavenly Father.” Near the end of the novel she appears in, this character kisses her father, though before she had washed his kiss off in a brook. This character sees herself reflected in a suit of armor while visiting (*) Governor Bellingham with her mother. At one point, this character watches a meteor while holding hands with her mother and father atop a scaffold. That father is the minister Arthur Dimmesdale. For 10 points, name this daughter of Hester Prynne from Nathaniel Hawthorne’s The Scarlet Letter.
Pearl Prynne [prompt on Prynne] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

151723-)
A character in this novel writes a poem called “Florida Dawn,” although earlier that character had told a woman that a poem is just a “piece of dust.” The protagonist of this novel hates Mr. Manzi’s physics class but is unable to finish a thesis on “twin-images” in Finnegans Wake. After reading a story about a nun and a Jewish man, a character in this novel envisions different life paths as figs on a tree. In this novel, (*) Philomena Guinea funds the main character’s schooling and her visits to Doctor Nolan. The protagonist of this novel goes to a sanatorium to visit Buddy Willard and works for Ladies’ Day Magazine during the summer when the Rosenbergs are electrocuted. For 10 points, name this work chronicling Esther Greenwood’s encounter with mental illness, Sylvia Plath’s only novel.
The Bell Jar &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

151740-)
One of these characters makes a strawberry dessert with salt instead of sugar when her mother announces she is taking the day off. These characters refer to their goals as “castles in the air” and compare their life “burdens” to The Pilgrim’s Progress. These characters include one who loves pickled limes and burns another’s notebooks. The eldest of these characters is humiliated at a ball held by the Moffats and eventually marries the tutor John Brooke. The (*) professor Friedrich Bhaer marries another one of these characters after she turns down a proposal from Laurie. These characters are cared for by the servant Hannah, and are the daughters of Marmee and a chaplain in the Civil War. For 10 points, Amy, Meg, Beth, and Jo March are what group of characters who title a novel by Louisa May Alcott?
the Little Women [or the March sisters until read; accept clear knowledge equivalents] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

151766-)
This poet is called a “sweet, dead Silencer” who “desired so much – in vain to ask” in a poem by Hart Crane. In one poem, this writer described Susan Gilbert’s heart as “fit for home” and breast as “fit for pearls.” A poem originally titled “In the Garden” by this writer was edited by Thomas Wentworth Higginson into “A bird came down the walk.” This writer recalls hearing a creature in “the chillest land” that (*) “sings the tune without the words.” Besides calling Hope a “thing with feathers,” this poet also described observing an “uncertain, stumbling buzz” before her death, an event marked in another poem by “horses’ heads… towards eternity” and a carriage holding immortality. For 10 points, name this poet of “Because I could not stop for Death,” the so-called Belle of Amherst.
Emily Dickinson &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

151783-)
A lineage of Republican thought is traced from this man to James Harrington to Jefferson in a book on his “moment” by J. A. G. Pocock. The “Very Short Introduction” to this person was written by Quentin Skinner, who attacked the idea of him standing at the “gateway of the modern world” as one “mythology of prolepsis.” This man, the subject of some “Thoughts” by Leo Strauss, wrote a book that was rebutted in a chapter-by-chapter critique in the first published work of (*) Frederick the Great, which is titled “Anti-[him].” This man called for his patrons to unite his country and free it from the “barbarians” in the last chapter of a book that advises beating and striking down fortune. That book argues that the title figure should be like a lion and a fox. For 10 points, name this author of The Prince.
Niccolò Machiavelli [accept Anti-Machiavel] &lt;JB European History&gt;
6

151793-)
A young boy in this novella says the best place he has seen in Europe is the City of Richmond, which is actually a boat. In this novella, a character exclaims “If this is improper, then I am all improper!” after refusing to enter a carriage with a character she often calls “stiff.” This novella begins with one character’s aunt complaining of headaches while in Vevey, Switzerland. While her mother chastises her younger brother Randolph, a woman in this novella tries to go on an evening (*) boat ride to the Chateau de Chillon and is not invited to Mrs. Walker’s parties after upsetting guests like the snobbish Mrs. Costello. After choosing Mr. Giovanelli over Frederick Winterbourne, the title character of this novella dies of Roman fever. For 10 points, name this novella by Henry James.
Daisy Miller: a Study &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

151796-)
Paul Fussell analyzed the impact of one of these texts created by Arthur Quiller-Couch on World War I writing. A 2015 book of this type controversially included “The Bees, the Flowers, Jesus, Ancient Tigers, Poseidon, Adam and Eve” after the pseudonym “Yi-Fen Chou” was revealed to be Michael Hudson. In 2011, Helen Vendler criticized the focus on “multicultural inclusiveness” in one of these texts, provoking a response letter from Rita Dove. Popular books of this type include (*) Palgrave’s Golden Treasury and the Oxford Books series. In addition to their Critical Editions, W. W. Norton &amp; Company is best known for putting out books of this type. For 10 points, name this type of books exemplified the Best American Poetry series, which consist of works of literature chosen by an editor.
poetry anthology [accept miscellany, compilation, poetry selection, or anything indicating a collection of works by multiple authors; accept treasury until “Treasury” is read; prompt on collection] &lt;JB World/Other Literature&gt;
6

151807-)
The speaker recalls how this man “said he would be back and we’d drink wine together” in Muriel Rukeyser’s poem about “Waiting for” this man. A poem notes how “the whole pageantry of the year was awake tingling” when this person died. Another poem compares this figure’s demise with a “dreadful martyrdom” occuring nearby where “the dogs go on with their doggy life.” That poem about this person notes how “everything turns away / Quite leisurely from the disaster.” A (*) ploughman is mentioned in William Carlos Williams’s poem about a painting of this figure’s death. The words “About suffering they were never wrong, / The old Masters” opens a poem inspired by Brueghel’s painting of this figure drowning, W. H. Auden’s “Musee des Beaux Arts.” For 10 points, name this mythical boy who flew too close to the sun while wearing wax wings.
Icarus &lt;JB American Literature&gt;
6

151829-)
In a novel by this author, a woman daydreams about wandering through a Kentucky field one Sunday morning. While her husband is out buying shrimp, a character in a story by this author has sex with an old flame, whose encounter with her in the town of Assumption is alluded to in the story’s prequel. The motif of a “lady in black” following two young lovers reoccurs in a novel by this author. This author of “The Storm” and its prequel, “At the (*) ’Cadian Ball,” wrote a short story in which Armand burns a willow cradle and sends his wife away because their child is not white. A novel by this author of “Desiree’s Baby” sees Alcee Arobin’s lover eventually fall for Robert Lebrun. For 10 points, name this American author who chronicled Edna Pontellier’s romantic self discovery in The Awakening.
Kate Chopin [or Katherine O’Flaherty] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

151847-)
This author is the subject of the leftmost of the three columns on each page of Bottom’s Dream, a Finnegans Wake-like novel written by a translator of this author, Arno Schmidt. Walter Benjamin [“VALL-tuh BEN-yah-meen”] described a story by this author as an “X-ray of a detective story”; that story’s convalescent narrator is identified with the flâneur in the essay “A Painter of Modern Life.” Jules Verne wrote The Sphinx of the Ice Fields as a sequel to a novel by this author that ends abruptly in (*) Antarctica. This American author inspired Stéphane Mallarmé and other Symbolists poets who read him in Charles Baudelaire’s translations. This author of “The Man of the Crowd” and Arthur Gordon Pym used Paris as the setting for his tales of ratiocination. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about C. Auguste Dupin [“see oh-GOOST doo-PAN”] in “Murders on the Rue Morgue.”
Edgar Allan Poe &lt;JB Other Lit&gt;
6

151856-)
A section of this poem written from the perspective of Jesus sees the speaker exclaim “Enough! Enough! Enough!” One section of this poem claims that the actions of a mastodon, buzzard, and elk are all “in vain,” while another describes the habits of a “spinning girl,” “duck-shooter,” and “pure contralto.” In this poem, a woman joins some young men “by the shore” as the “the twenty-ninth bather.” The speaker of this poem uses the phrases “a uniform hieroglyphic” and “the (*) beautiful uncut hair of graves” to describe grass. This poem begins by claiming “every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you” and ends “I stop somewhere, waiting for you” after the speaker sounds his “barbaric yawp.” For 10 points, name this poem by Walt Whitman that makes up over half of Leaves of Grass.
“Song of Myself” &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

151880-)
The speaker claims she can “only do two things” including to “not add a last line” in a Wislawa Szymborska poem titled for this event. This event inspired one author’s essay “In the Ruins of the Future,” which primed readers to expect his novel about Eric Packer’s journey to a barber shop to be about this event. The boy Justin use binoculars to search for Bill Lawton after this event in a novel about Keith Neudecker. The mysterious company “hashslingrz” catches the attention of (*) Maxine Tarnow a few months before this event in one novel, and Oskar Schell’s father dies during this event in a book by Jonathan Safran Foer. For 10 points, name this event, the subject of Thomas Pynchon’s Bleeding Edge, Don DeLillo’s Falling Man, and Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close.
9/11 [accept answers involving the 2001 World Trade Center terrorist attack or WTC; or “Photograph from 9/11”] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

151903-)
In one novel, this character watches her sister’s children pile yellow roses around a dead thrush to give it a funeral. The story of a day in this person’s life is intertwined with narratives of Ms. Vaughan’s interactions with the dying poet Richard and the housewife Laura Brown’s near-suicide in the novel that won the 1999 Pulitzer, Michael Cunningham’s The Hours. In a play titled for this person, a man relates the plot of his “second novel” in order to (*) accuse his wife of using her “hysterical pregnancy” to force their marriage; that occurs during a game of “Get the Guest” in the section “Walpurgis Night.” A dead son who “swerved, to avoid a porcupine,” is revealed to be fictional in that play titled for this person, about Nick and Honey’s visit with Martha and George. For 10 points, an Edward Albee play title asks “Who’s Afraid of” what British author?
Virginia Woolf &lt;JB American Literature&gt;
6

151907-)
A critical study titled for this phrase argues that there are two versions of the book it appears in, with the second being influenced by the author’s reading of King Lear; that study is by the poet Charles Olson. A sentence about something John’s parents almost did follows a parody of this phrase in Kurt Vonnegut’s Cat’s Cradle. This sentence opens a paragraph that describes times when the protagonist finds himself “involuntarily pausing before coffin warehouses” or experiencing a “damp, drizzly (*) November of the soul.” This sentence begins the chapter “Loomings,” which is followed by a description of the protagonist’s arrival at the Spouter-Inn and encounter with the cannibal Queequeg. For 10 points, give this first sentence of Herman Melville’s Moby Dick.
“Call me Ishmael” &lt;JB American Literature&gt; [NOTE: Read the answerline before reading the tossup]
6

151933-)
In a play by Sarah Ruhl, this poet writes “There’s something haunting and nihilistic about your hairdresser,” and he told a woman “I write entirely for you” in a letter included in Words in Air. This poet wrote “In the end / the water was too cold for us” about another author, who returned the favor by making him the dedicatee of a poem that describes “frail, illegal fire balloons” and “a weak (*) mailed fist / clenched ignorant against the sky!” Elizabeth Bishop’s “The Armadillo” was written for this poet, who made Bishop the dedicatee of a poem that describes the “chalk- dry and spar spire / of the Trinitarian Church” and declares “I myself am hell.” For 10 points, name this poet who wrote about an animal that “jabs her wedge-head in a cup… and will not scare” in “Skunk Hour.”
Robert Lowell [do not prompt on or accept “Amy Lowell” or “James Russell Lowell”] &lt;JK American Literature&gt;
6

151948-)
A man replies to questions about this item with the exclamation “I believe in Matthew Harrison Brady!” in a play that ends with Henry Drummond taking this item. In Huck Finn, Harney hides a love note for Sophia in this item, feuling a feud between the Grangerfords and Shepherdsons. In a short story, a character opens a hollowed-out one of these objects to reveal whiskey and playing cards before taking Joy’s artificial leg. Besides those items in (*) Inherit the Wind and Flannery O’Connor’s “Good Country People,” Montag threatens Faber by tearing pages out of this item in Fahrenheit 451 and later memorizes a portion of this book. The Dead family uses this book to name daughters like Reba, Magdalene, and First Corinthians in Toni Morrison’s Song of Solomon. For 10 points, name this religious text.
Bibles [or synonyms; anti-prompt on more specific books or sections] &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

151985-)
In an alternate ending to this poem, a character forget her name after meeting Louis under an oak tree. That adaptation by Felix Voorhies differs from a version of this poem in which Michael the Fiddler’s performance is interrupted by townspeople shouting “Death to these foreign soldiers!” In this poem, Father Felician likens two characters to the “Prodigal Son” and “Foolish Virgin” before a woman leaves Grand-Pre to “follow the Indian trails to the (*) Ozark Mountains.” The blacksmith Basil’s son is found at the end of this poem, which begins by introducing a “Tale of Love” in “the forest primeval.” For 10 points, name this epic poem about an Acadian woman and her love for Gabriel Lajeunesse written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
“Evangeline: A Tale of Acadie” &lt;OL American Literature&gt;
6

152008-)
In a poem, this man described “fine collapses” that “are not lies any more than the pirouettes of any pliant cane.” That poem by this man begins by saying “we make our meek adjustments contented with such random consolations.” This poet described how the title figure of one poem observed “the dice of drowned men’s bones” “bequeath an embassy.” In a different poem, this poet of “Chaplinesque” and “At (*) Melville’s Tomb” described the addressee’s guerdon as “obscure as the heaven of the Jews.” This poet included “Proem: To Brooklyn” as the opening section of an epic poem, whose other sections include “Powhatan’s Daughter” and “Cape Hatteras.” For 10 points, name this modernist American poet of the epic poem The Bridge.
Hart Crane [or Harold Hart Crane] &lt;JO American Literature&gt;
6

152026-)
16. A novel by this author ends with a mob coming to evict Neil Kingsblood for his black ancestry. Another novel by this author ends with the title character congratulating his son Ted for eloping with Eunice. Senator Trowbridge opposes Buzz Windrip’s fascist regime in a novel by this author titled It Can’t Happen Here. A character created by this author eventually gives up his relations with Seneca Doane and his affair with Tanis Judique before joining the (*) Good Citizen’s League. In that novel by this author, Paul Riesling is arrested for shooting his wife Zilla. For 10 points, name this author of Babbitt.
Sinclair Lewis &lt;AB&gt;
3

152050-)
20. This author wrote a poem in which the speaker apologizes to the subject by saying that “in better dress to trim thee was my mind.” That poem by this author begins by referring to the subject as an “ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain.” This author of “To My Dear and Loving Husband” wrote a poem that ends by concluding that since “the world no longer let me love, my (*) hope and treasure lies above.” For 10 points, name this early female American poet of “Verses Upon the Burning of Our House”, who published the collection The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet &lt;AB&gt; Bonuses
3

152088-)
A character’s despairing shout in this play is accompanied by a low-tone clarinet. A character in this play describes the possibly fictional affections lavished onto her by Shep Huntleigh. A radio in this play is thrown out the window after playing rumba music, and the title conveyance is ridden by another character in this play to get to Eunice and Stella in (*) Elysian Fields. In this play’s penultimate scene, Stanley Kowalski rapes the protagonist, who feebly declares “I have always depended on the kindness of strangers”. For 10 points, name this play about the aging Blanche DuBois, written by Tennessee Williams.
A Streetcar Named Desire
3

152097-)
7. In a story by this author, the title event prompts Calixta to invite her former lover Alcée into the house. This author wrote another story in which Mrs. Mallard celebrates her freedom before finding out that her husband is not actually dead. In a novel by this author of “The Storm,” a dichotomy is drawn between the advice that the pianist Mademoiselle Reisz and (*) Adele Ratignolle each give the protagonist. Robert LeBrun leaves a note declaring his love for the protagonist of that book by this author. For 10 points, name this female author,who wrote about the suicide of Edna Pontellier in The Awakening.
Kate Chopin &lt;AB&gt;
3

152117-)
7. This author’s only short story opens with the phrase “My mother danced all night,” explaining why Twyla was placed in St. Bonny’s home for girls with Roberta. This author of “Recitatif” wrote a novel in which the title character accidentally swings Chicken Little into a river. In another novel by this author, a woman names her daughter after her midwife Amy Denver. That novel by this author features Paul D, who shows up at (*) 124 Bluestone Road unannounced. Baby Suggs is the mother-in-law of Sethe in that novel by this author. For 10 points, name this female African-American author of novels like Beloved.
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Anthony Wofford] &lt;AB&gt;
3

152132-)
2. This author described the title people of a poem as “Orange lollies on silver sacks.” That poem by this author, which refers to the title city as a “morgue between Paris and Rome,” is titled “The Munich Mannequins.” A poem by this author ends a stanza with “Ach, du” and calls the title figure, a man in black with a (*) Meinkampf look” before exclaiming, “You bastard, I’m through.” This wife of Ted Hughes committed suicide shortly after publishing a novel centering on Esther Greenwood. For 10 points, name this author of the poem “Daddy” and the novel The Bell Jar.
Sylvia Plath &lt;AB&gt;
3

152155-)
5. A section of this poem describes a group of people who “fell on their knees in hopeless cathedrals.” A figure whose “mind is pure machinery” and whose “fingers are ten armies” is described in the second section of this poem, which gives several descriptions of a figure named Moloch. This poem describes “angelheaded hipsters” who “threw potato salad at CCNY lecturers on Dadaism.” The third section of this poem addresses the dedicatee by repeating “I’m with you in (*) Rockland.”This poem opens by saying “I saw the best mind of my generation destroyed by madness, starving hysterical naked.” For 10 points, name this poem by Allen Ginsburg.
“Howl” &lt;AB&gt;
3

152181-)
11. Gally is heavily implied to be this person in Jim Crace’s novel Quarantine. Hazel Motes forms an organization “without” this figure in Flannery O’Connor’s novel Wise Blood. In the Brothers Karamazov, this person is sentenced to death in Ivan’s parable of the Grand Inquisitor. The Shepherd attempts to convince this person to have sex with a sheep in a Jose Saramago novel titled after The (*) Gospel According to this person. This person is most famous for appearing in several texts in which he raises a dead man and exorcises the demon Legion. For 10 points, name this person, whose crucifixion is described in the New Testament.
Jesus Christ [accept either name] &lt;AB&gt;
3

152209-)
19. This author wrote about a man who is trapped in a lard investment scheme by Doctor Tamkin and is refused financial support by his father Dr. Adler. Another of this author’s characters is forced to kill the horse Bizcocho and has numerous love affairs with Thea, Stella, and Sophie. This man wrote about the plight of Tommy Wilhelm in the novel (*) Seize the Day. The title character of one of his novels mentally writes many letters that he never sends. His most famous novel opens with the declaration that “I am an American, Chicago born.” For 10 points, name this author of Herzog and The Adventures of Augie March.
Saul Bellow &lt;KS&gt;
3

152227-)
17. One of this man’s poems describes a “drink of the gods” that allows one to “breathe through the hearts of desire.” This author of “The Brewing of the Soma” wrote a poem that opens with a description of the sun rising “cheerless over hills of gray.” The title character of one of his poems says that “It might have been” about becoming the judges bride. One of this man’s poems takes place in Fredericktown and contains the proclamation (*) “Shoot, if you must, this old gray head, but spare your country’s flag!” For 10 points, name this author of “Snow-Bound,” “Maud Muller,” and “Barbara Frietchie.”
John Greenleaf Whittier &lt;KS&gt;
3

152240-)
10. One poem about this conflict was analyzed in the essay “Narcissus as Narcissus.” That poem includes many images of leaves flying and plunging. Another poem about this war includes a latin epigraph which means “They gave up all to serve the republic.” That poem includes a description of a Saint-Gaudens monument as a “fishbone in the city’s throat.” The most famous poem about this war opens (*) “Row after row with strict impunity/ The headstones yield their names to the element.” For 10 points, name this war that was written about by Robert Lowell and Allen Tate in the poems “For the Union Dead” and “Ode to the Confederate Dead.”
The American Civil War &lt;KS&gt;
3

152263-)
13. The death of a friend causes the protagonist of this novel to conclude that “The spirit gone, the rest is garbage.” That friend dies under a parachute because he says he is cold. The hero of this novel moves a piece of string in order to cancel a mission. Colonel Cathcart offers the protagonist a deal before the latter is stabbed by (*) Nately’s whore. Major deCoverly’s first name in this novel is always replaced with dashes, and that character is the executive assistant of Major Major Major Major. The title of this Pianosa-set work refers to a situation in which one’s claim of insanity paradoxically proves one’s sanity. For 10 points, name this Joseph Heller novel about fighter pilot John Yossarian.
Catch-22 &lt;AB&gt;
3

152272-)
. The 20th chapter of this work, The Flower of Eden, opens by revealing the Judge’s death with two pictures of him before and after death. In this work, the Judge dies while sitting in the same chair that his ancestor did 30 years ago. Matthew Maule hypnotized Alice before the events of this work, eventually leading to her death. The taker of the aforementioned pictures, the daguerreotypist (*) Holgrave, falls in love with Phoebe. This books ends with the discovery of a deed to some land in Maine behind the Colonel’s portrait. For 10 points, name this novel focusing on the Pyncheon family and set in the title structure, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
The House of the Seven Gables &lt;AB&gt;
3

152292-)
One poem by this author relates “The Death of the Hired Man,” and another discusses “Fire and Ice” causing the end of the world. The speaker of one of this man’s poems believes he “shall be telling this with a sigh / somewhere ages and ages hence” while he discusses what happend in a “yellow wood,” (*) and another of his poems begins, “whose woods these are I think I know / his house is in the village, though.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Stopping By Woods on a Snowy Evening” and “The Road Not Taken.”
Robert Lee Frost
1

152317-)
In this work, David Gamut tries to teach beavers to sing psalms, and Heyward pretends to be a medicine man so he can rescue Alice. Cora Munro is captured by Magua, who kills Uncas during a failed rescue attempt by (*) Chingachgook and Natty Bumppo, who is also known as Hawkeye. For 10 points, identify this second novel in The Leatherstocking Tales, a work by James Fenimore Cooper about the final member of a Native American tribe.
The Last of the Mohicans
1

152340-)
In the "Theory of Composition," this poem's author explains why this poem's "Prophet" seems like "a demon that is dreaming" but can only say one word. The speaker asks the title creature to return to “Night’s Plutonian shore,” but it stays on the “pallid bust of (*) Pallas” in his room. This poem's speaker laments the loss of “dear Lenore” while the title bird repeats “nevermore” in, for 10 points, what poem by Edgar Allan Poe?
The Raven
1

152351-)
This author wrote of a “narrow fellow in the grass” and said she was an “inebriate of air” and “Debauchee of Dew” in a poem that begins “I taste a liquor never brewed.” This poet wrote “hope is a thing with feathers” and “I heard a (*) fly buzz when I died,” and described a carriage that “held but just ourselves and Immortality.” The “Belle of Amherst” was, for 10 points, this reclusive American poet who wrote “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Emily Elizabeth Dickinson
1

152366-)
One character in this novel hears his companions called “mule drivers” and “mud diggers.” The protagonist abandons a “tattered soldier” after a battle and allows an injury from being hit with a rifle to be mistaken for a bullet wound, the title (*) mark he longs for. Jim Conklin dies refusing help in, for 10 points, this novel about Union soldier Henry Fleming, a work by Stephen Crane.
The Red Badge of Courage
1

152380-)
Two characters in this novel climb a ferris wheel during a game of capture the flag. In this work, Caleb commits his first selfish act by choosing to leave his parents and sister to join Erudite. That sister later shortens her name after joining (*) Dauntless. Sixteen-year-olds in dystopian Chicago are sorted into one of five factions, with the exception of the title group in, for ten points, what novel by Veronica Roth, in which Tris Prior shows aptitude for three factions?
Divergent
1

152390-)
A character in this novel can only be killed by hemp, according to the Parsee Fedallah; that character throws his pipe overboard and nails a gold doubloon to the mast of his ship. An unused coffin once carried by (*) Queequeg serves as the narrator’s lifeboat when the Pequod sinks in this novel, which begins “Call me Ishmael.” For 10 points, name this Herman Melville novel about Captain Ahab’s quest for the title white whale.
Moby Dick; or, The Whale Bonuses
1

152395-)
This book describes a creature who “launch'd forth, filament, filament, filament out of itself,” and a narrator who “look’d up in perfect silence at the stars.” This collection contains “A Noiseless Patient Spider” and “When I Heard the Learn'd Astronomer” and this work honors (*) Lincoln with the poems “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloomed” and “O Captain! My Captain!” “Song of Myself” appears in, for 10 points, what poetry collection by Walt Whitman?
Leaves of Grass
1

152404-)
In a flashback in this novel, Igor Barkov is almost defeated for Myra Menke's hand in marriage. This novel's protagonist fondly remembers a lullaby that begins "If only, if only" as he unknowingly works to find Kate Barlow's buried treasure at (*) Camp Green Lake. Madame Zeroni's curse on the Yelnats family is finally broken by Stanley in, for 10 points, what novel by Louis Sachar, set in a desert where lawbreaking children are forced to dig?
Holes
1

152419-)
In a work by this author, Pontiac dealer Dwayne Hoover is obsessed with a science fiction author. One of his novels takes place in San Lorenzo, the home of Bokononism. A ballerina is shot by Diana (*) Moon Glampers in a short story by this author of Breakfast of Champions and Cat's Cradle, who created the fictional writer Kilgore Trout. For 10 points, name this American author of the short story “Harrison Bergeron,” who created Billy Pilgrim for his novel Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
1

152428-)
One character in this work is called salao, but fondly remembers his first fishing trip with a five-year-old helper. That protagonist dreams of lions on a beach, and he remains confident in the Yankees and the “great DiMaggio.” (*) Manolin is forbidden to go with the title character in this novella, who goes for 84 days without a fish before finally catching a marlin, only to have it get eaten by sharks. For 10 points, identify this novella about Santiago, a work by Ernest Hemingway.
The Old Man and the Sea
1

152436-)
In this work, Heck Tate orders the shooting of Tim Johnson, and the protagonist discusses entailment to calm down Walter Cunningham’s father. This novel’s narrator frightens Calpurnia by sitting in a balcony with (*) Dill to watch her father defend Tom Robinson against the Ewells. Atticus Finch appears in, for 10 points, what novel about Jem and Scout, written by Harper Lee?
To Kill a Mockingbird
1

152460-)
A schoolhouse in this work was designed so a thief could easily get in, but not out, though this proves ineffective against Abraham Van Brunt. Katrina Van Tassel marries Brom Bones after a schoolteacher disappears in this story, which was collected in The (*) Sketch Book of Geoffrey Crayon. Ichabod Crane flees the Headless Horseman in, for 10 points, what story by Washington Irving?
The Legend of Sleepy Hollow
1

152463-)
This author wrote about the Abraham Lincoln and her crew members Conseil, Ned Land, and Pierre Aronnax. In one work by this man, Phileas Fogg and (*) Passepartout [pass-par-too] win a bet by completing the title action. Another of his novels centers on the submarine Nautilus and Captain Nemo. For 10 points, identify this author of Around the World in 80 Days and 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea.
Jules Gabriel Verne
1

152475-)
Two members of this movement collaborated on And the Hippos Were Boiled in Their Tanks in 1945. Another member of this movement wrote "I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness" in the poem "Howl." William Burroughs, Allen Ginsberg, and the author of (*) On the Road, Jack Kerouac, were members of, for 10 points, what 1950's American literary movement, stereotyped by bongo-playing poets, that inspired the hippies of the 1960's?
Beat Generation (accept beatniks)
1

152487-)
This character looks like his great uncle, who sent a substitute to the Civil War and started a family hardware business. In his “younger and more vulnerable years,” he was told not to criticize people who may not have had his advantages. He has a love affair with the golfer (*) Jordan Baker and went to a funeral with Henry Gatz. The second cousin once removed of Daisy Buchanan, for 10 points, identify this narrator of The Great Gatsby.
Nick Carraway (accept either underlined name)
1

152517-)
One character in this novel drowns in a pool after nothing is done about cigarette rations. In this novel, that character is the first person to vote with the protagonist to watch the World Series. After being caught having sex with the prostitute (*) Candy, another character in this novel defends himself for the first time without stuttering. That character, Billy Bibbit, commits suicide, prompting Randle McMurphy to attack the antagonist, which leads to his lobotomy. For 10 points, name this novel by Ken Kesey that is set in a mental institution run by Nurse Ratched.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest BONUSES
4

152535-)
This poet wrote a political satire about the “Curse of our nation, source of countless woes” in his poem “The Embargo.” The speaker of another poem by this author notes that “the abyss of heaven hath swallowed up thy form” and asks the title creature “dost thou pursue Thy (*) solitary way.” This man wrote another poem to a subject who “holds communion with [Nature’s] visible forms”. That poem exhorts the listener to “join the innumerable caravan” and approach death as one who “lies down to pleasant dreams.” For 10 points, name this early American poet of “To a Waterfowl” and “Thanatopsis.”
William Cullen Bryant
4

152553-)
In one work, one of these objects is described “Lingering onward” on a July evening. In another poem, one of these objects is said to at times have “seen what man thought he saw.” Lewis Carroll wrote about one of these objects “Beneath a Sunny Sky,” and another poem describes one that “no longer felt guided by haulers.” In addition to that poem by (*) Rimbaud about a “Drunken” one, a short story sees one of these things inhabited by a Cook, Oiler, Correspondent, and Captain who try to reach land. Stephen Crane wrote about an “Open” one of, for 10 points, what vessels that sail on water?
boats [accept “A Boat Beneath a Sunny Sky;” “The Open Boat”; and “The Drunken Boat”]
4

152556-)
In one novel by this author, the abused wife Magdalena saves the protagonist from her husband Buck Scales. Another work by this author chronicles the journey of Thea Kronborg as she becomes an opera singer. A third novel by this author focuses on a family of Swedish-American (*) immigrants in the town of Hanover. This author’s novel, The Song of the Lark is part of her “Prairie Trilogy.” This author also wrote a novel in which the title Bohemian women eventually marries Anton Cuzak after moving back to Nebraska, and is friends with Jim Burden. For 10 points, name this author of O Pioneers! and My Ántonia.
Willa Cather
4

152566-)
In one scene in this novel, a character masquerades himself as a bear using a stolen costume originally used for religious rites. The antagonist of this novel is also known by the alias “Le Renard Subtil.” That character blames his demotion and the departure of his wife on (*) Colonel Munro, whose daughters Alice and Cora are abducted by Magua. This novel, which opens at Fort William Henry, uses the trope of the noble savage through the characters of Uncas and Chingachgook. For 10 points, name this second novel of James Fenimore Cooper’s Leatherstocking Tales.
The Last of the Mohicans
4

152582-)
One character in this novel dies of gangrene because he is forced to wear wooden clogs. As a child, the protagonist of this book wets his pants looking at the grand canyon and is thrown into the deep end of a Y.M.C.A. pool by his father. This novel ends with a bird saying (*) “Poo-tee-weet” and everytime someone dies, the phrase “so it goes” is used. The soldier Roland Weary is captured by Germans with the protagonist, who is later kidnapped and placed in a zoo on the alien planet Tralfamadore. Billy Pilgrim becomes “unstuck in time” amidst the firebombing of Dresden in, for 10 points, what anti-war novel by Kurt Vonnegut?
Slaughterhouse-Five, or The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death
4

152601-)
In one novel set in this state, Judge McKelva is taken here to be buried by his daughter Laura. In addition to being the setting for The Optimist’s Daughter and the home of Eudora Welty, Thomas Sutpen travels to this state to become a family patriarch and earn wealth. Two more novels set in this state focus on the lives of (*) Joe Christmas and the Compson family, respectively. Both Light in August and The Sound and the Fury take place in this state, the birthplace of William Faulkner. For 10 points, name this state, whose namesake river is the setting for The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
Mississippi BONUSES
4

152605-)
While on guard duty, this character decides to marry Genevieve on the same night he meets her. Hospital-bound Lila sends a letter asking for this character, voiced by Bill Melendez, to keep her company.  Bill Hinnant plays this character in a musical where he is later shot down by the (*) Red Baron. Born on the Daisy Hill Puppy Farm, his siblings include Belle, Olaf, and Spike, a resident of Needles, California. As scoutmaster, this dog leads around a troupe of yellow birds that includes Harriet and Woodstock. Charles Schulz’s Peanuts comic strip features, for 10 points, what pet beagle owned by Charlie Brown?
Snoopy
4

152608-)
In the opening scene of this play, the protagonist asks his wife why she bought American cheese when he prefers Swiss. In another scene, the protagonist fruitlessly tries to plant seeds in the garden at night. Act II’s Requiem ends with a monologue in which a character repeats the line, “we’re free,” several times. That character asks for a new pair of (*) stockings, which the protagonist gives to The Woman in Boston, prompting Biff’s anger towards his father. The protagonist’s family receives his life insurance money after his fatal car accident in, for 10 points, what Arthur Miller play about the tragic downfall of Willy Loman?
Death of a Salesman
4

152624-)
This poet begins the Prologue to one poetry collection with “To sing of Wars, of Captains, and of Kings.” In another poem, this poet stated, “The world no longer let me love, / My hope and treasure lies above.” In that poem, the narrator “blest His name that gave and took” after seeing “The (*) flame consume my dwelling place.” She also wrote that “If ever two were one, then surely we” in another poem. For 10 points, name this female colonial poet who wrote “Verses Upon the Burning of Our House” and “To My Dear and Loving Husband” in her collection, The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet [accept Anne Dudley]
4

152654-)
In one chapter of this book, a vignette of a turtle crossing the road is told. In this novel, Ivy and Sairy Wilson offer their tent to the protagonist’s Grandfather, who soon passes away. A service station attendant buries a dog in this novel, at the request of the pregnant wife, (*) Rose of Sharon. That character is later abandoned by her husband Connie. The protagonist of this work kills a man with an axe and becomes a fugitive after witnessing the death of the preacher Jim Casey. For 10 points, name this novel about the Joad family’s journey to California during the Dust Bowl, written by John Steinbeck.
The Grapes of Wrath
4

152668-)
In one novel by this author, the title character returns to her town “accompanied by a plague of robins” after being gone for ten years, and later has a relationship with Ajax. In that novel by this author, the one-legged mother Eva lights her son on fire. Another novel by this woman has its titles derived from a (*) “Dick and Jane” story. In that novel by her, marigold seeds fail to bloom, mirroring the premature death of Pecola’s baby. In addition to Sula, she also wrote about Sethe and Denver living at 124 Bluestone Road, which is haunted by the title character’s ghost. For 10 points, name this author of The Bluest Eye and Beloved.
Toni Morrison
4

152693-)
The speaker of one poem by this author states, “I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead.” Another poem by this author begins “you do not do, you do not do.” One author included this poet as the subject of his Birthday Letters. In another poem this poet claims, “Out of the (*) ash I rise” and “eat men like air,” and also calls dying a theatrical art. This author of “Mad Girl’s Love Song” compares her title relative to “a man in black with a Meinkampf look” in another poem. For 10 points, name this author of “Lady Lazarus,” and “Daddy.”
Sylvia Plath
4

152712-)
One character of this surname must disguise a snowman because it bears an uncanny resemblance to one of his neighbors. One character of this surname remarks that “one does not love breathing” after a teacher bans her from reading. Another character of this surname conceals that he can play the Jew’s harp, and shocks his children by (*) shooting a rabid dog. That character urges his children to stop tormenting their neighbor, Boo Radley, and defends Tom Robinson by proving Bob Ewell’s left-handedness. For 10 points, name this surname of Jem, Scout, and Atticus in Harper Lee’s novel To Kill a Mockingbird.
Finch [accept Atticus Finch; or Scout Finch; or Jem Finch]
4

152730-)
This author wrote about Eben Cabot, who goes to jail with his father’s wife Abbie Putnam after she kills their baby in Desire Under the Elms. In another work by this author, the daughter of a steel tycoon, Mildred Douglas, calls the coal stoker Yank a “dirty beast.” This man set another one of his plays in (*) Harry Hope’s Saloon, where the “Great Salesman” Hickey tells his friends to give up on their pipe dreams. This author of The Hairy Ape wrote about the mother of the Tyrone family, Mary, who suffers from morphine addiction. For 10 points, name this American playwright of The Iceman Cometh and A Long Day’s Journey into Night.
Eugene O’Neill
4

152765-)
A character in this play describes seeing a kid’s face “split open” and marvels at “what one person can do for another, fix him up - sew up the problem.” Another character sings a song about how “All God’s Children got wings” before giving his mother a new set of gardening tools. A son asks for (*) fifty cents at the beginning of this play, while his father attempts to pitch his business idea of owning a liquor store. Joseph Asagai proposes to Beneatha at the end of this play, and Walter Lee decides to move his family into Mama’s new house in Clybourne Park. For 10 points, name this play about the Younger family by Lorraine Hansberry.
A Raisin in the Sun
4

152787-)
One character in this work feeds apricots to a baby and later puts a dime into a jukebox to play “Tennessee Waltz” at a barbecue restaurant called “The Tower”, whose owner has a pet monkey. This story ends with a character saying “It’s no real pleasure in life” to his criminal accomplice (*) Bobby Lee after picking up the cat Pitty Sing. John Wesley and June Star throw a tantrum before a car crash in this story and are later shot along with their father Bailey. The Grandmother cries for Jesus while pleading with the Misfit in, for 10 points, what short story by Flannery O’Connor?
“A Good Man is Hard to Find”
4

152802-)
This novel has a notoriously short sixth chapter in which the protagonist begins “to realize her position in the universe as a human being” and whose style is echoed in its final chapter, repeating that a certain object’s touch is “sensuous” and “encloses the body in its warm embrace.” This novel also features the Farival twins who are renowned for their abilities on the piano. This novel opens with a (*) parrot shouting “Allez-vous en”. The protagonist of this novel cries in disgust when she sees her friend Adele Ratignolle giving birth, falls in love with Robert Lebrun, and soon after drowns herself in the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, name this novel about Edna Pontellier, a proto-feminist novel by Kate Chopin.
The Awakening &lt;Carpenter&gt;
5

152835-)
This author describes a character who was “chased by a horrible thing which raced sideways while blowing bubbles.” Another of his works chronicles a grasshopper in flight. This man created a character who was thrown in the dungeon by the president, as well as a couple who upon their death (*) “dream their sleep”. This poet of [i carry your heart with me] describes the passing of time by cycling through the words “sun moon stars rain.” In another work, he depicts a “conscientious object-or” whose heart “recoiled at war”. For 10 points, name this eccentric poet of works such as r-p-o-p-h-e-s-s-a-g-r, i sing of Olaf glad and big, and anyone lived in a pretty how town.
edward estlin cummings &lt;Carpenter&gt;
5

152883-)
In a story by this author, one character remarks that Americans are impressed by titles and that the narrator has “an extremely sensitive face.” The second section of that work centers on unnamed soldiers called X, Y, and Z. A character created by this author accuses a woman of looking at his feet in an elevator and tells her “don’t be a God-damned sneak about it.” The title creatures of the work in which that character appears (*) swim into holes and eat so much that they can’t get back through again and die. This creator of Seymour Glass also created a character who reminisces about playing checkers with his old friend Jane Gallagher and buys a record for his sister Phoebe. For 10 points, name this author of “For Esme - with Love and Squalor” and “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” who wrote about Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.
Jerome David Salinger &lt;Kodama&gt;
5

152890-)
A character created by this writer entertains around the campfire with the Iliad, though he pronounces Achilles as “Ash-heels.” This author wrote about a Euchre game that exposes the hypocrisy of Nye, as he accuses a Chinese immigrant of cheating while being a cheater himself. In a work by this author, a man accuses an orphan of “rastling with his finger” as residents drop gifts in a top hat. That character, (*) Kentuck, later dies with Stumpy in a flash flood. In another work by this author, Mother Shipton starves herself to save a child, and John Oakhurst commits suicide. For 10 points, name this author of “The Luck of Roaring Camp” and “The Outcasts of Poker Flat.”
Bret Harte &lt;Kodama&gt;
5

152915-)
WARNING: AUTHOR AND TYPE OF WORK REQUIRED. A character in one of these works by this author saves a grasshopper covered in ash before using many others as bait for fishing. In another of these works by this man, a father convinces his son to accompany him while he delivers a child, whose father subsequently commits suicide with a razor. A waitress behind a beaded curtain carries Anis del Toro in another work by this author of (*) “Big Two-Hearted River”; in that work, The American attempts to talk Jig into getting an abortion without ever using the word. For 10 points, name these works by this author that include “Indian Camp” and “Hills Like White Elephants” and often star Nick Adams.
Short stories by Ernest Hemingway (prompt on partial answer) &lt;Sharma&gt;
5

152947-)
This novel originated as the verse play Proud Flesh, in which the main character was named Talos after a “brutal, blank-eyed ‘iron groom’” from the Fairie Queene. That character begins the novel by stopping at a soda fountain and talking to “Old Leather-Face” about his jailed son; he is later contrasted as “the man of fact” against a “man of idea.” After picking up a hitchhiker, this novel’s narrator formulates a theory of the (*) “Great Twitch” and studies his ancestor Cass Mastern. He digs up blackmail evidence against Judge Irwin, causing Irwin to commit suicide before he realizes Irwin was his father. In this novel, Anne Stanton’s affair with “the Boss” is revealed, causing Adam to shoot him. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Jack Burden about the Huey-Long-inspired politician Willie Stark, by Robert Penn Warren.
All the King’s Men &lt;Carlson&gt;
5

152983-)
An early poem by this author begins with the line “O Bubble blast, how long can'st last?” and goes on to describe the certainty of death. In another poem by this author, one title character answers the other’s question with the question, “art indeed ignorant of these my woes?” and describes earlier troubles like the War of the Roses. This poet of “Upon a Fit of Sickness” and "Dialogue Between Old England and New" lamented “my pleasant things in (*) ashes lie” in “Verses Upon the Burning of Our House.” This author describes her love for her husband in a poem that begins “if ever two were one, then surely we.” For 10 points, name this colonial poet, the author of the collection The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet &lt;Parikh&gt;
5

153001-)
This author wrote about Wayne Williams’ murders in Atlanta in The Evidence of Things Not Seen. In one of this author’s stories, a math teacher loses his daughter Grace to polio and disapproves of his brother’s heroin addiction and jazz piano playing. This man wrote about a bisexual man in Greenwich Village, Rufus Scott, in Another Country, and about a titular homosexual man who kills Guillame after breaking up with David in Giovanni’s Room. This man’s essays (*) “My Dungeon Shook” and “Down At The Cross” are collected in The Fire Next Time. A novel by this author of “Sonny’s Blues” is set during the 14th birthday of the protagonist, who is raised by Gabriel at a Harlem church called the Temple of Fire Baptized. For 10 points, name this African-American author who wrote about John Grimes in Go Tell It on the Mountain.
James Arthur Baldwin &lt;Mathew&gt;
5

153024-)
This author asserts that there is, “Not a whisper, not a thought / Not a kiss nor look be lost,” in a poem that tells its subject to, “Lay your sleeping head, my love / Human on my faithless arm.” In another work by this poet of “Lullaby,” the speaker calls a dead man, “my moon, my midnight, my talk, my song,” before referring to him as “my North, my South, my East and West.” That poem begins with a command to (*) “Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone.” Another poem by this author proclaims “We must love one another or die”; that poem is set in a “dive” on Fifty-second street, and is about the outbreak of World War II. For 10 points, identify this author of “Funeral Blues” and “September 1st, 1939.”
W. H. Auden &lt;Sharma&gt;
5

153027-)
In this novel, Maria Wallis shoots an Englishman on a train. The protagonist of this novel thinks his eye has been gouged out after fighting a member of the Carabinieri. Mary marries the Conte di Minghetti after another character in this novel dies violently in a speakeasy. In this novel, Jules Peterson is found dead in the bed of the star of Daddy’s Girl. One character in this novel had an (*) incestuous relationship with her father, and she later marries a man who had a gunfight with Mr. McKisko, Tommy Barban. That character meets her husband in Dr. Franz Gregorovius’ clinic in Zurich, and she later divorces him after his descent into alcoholism. For 10 points, name this novel about an affair with Rosemary Hoyt and the deteriorating marriage of Nicole and Dick Diver, a semi-autobiography by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Tender is the Night &lt;Mathew&gt;
5

153031-)
In this play, when one character straightens her hair, another character believes that she is “mutilating” it. That character is courted by both the dull George Murchison and a man who influences her decision to move to Nigeria to practice medicine. In this play, Willy Harris steals the money he told his friend they would invest in a (*) liquor store. The central family of this play is offered a buyout by Karl Lindner after Lena uses a $10,000 life insurance payment to buy a house in a white neighborhood, leading to disagreement between her children Walter and Beneatha. For 10 points, name this play by Lorraine Hansberry about a black family living in Chicago whose title is taken from “Harlem” by Langston Hughes.
A Raisin in the Sun &lt;Tummarakota&gt;
5

153043-)
One work set in this place uses the slang term “Canada” to mean “wealth” and is named We Were In [this place]; one of its authors wrote about characters who run to a loading ramp to collect food. A book which begins with the exclamation “No!” describes the narrator’s reasons to not have a son, based on time spent in this place. Another character in this place has an affair with the novelist Stingo before committing suicide with her schizophrenic lover Nathan Landau. This location, which inspired (*) Kaddish for an Unborn Child, is the setting of a novella in Moshe the Beadle’s warnings are ignored and the protagonist resents caring for his father. Sophie is forced to choose between her two children here in a William Styron novel, where Elie Wiesel described losing his faith in God. For 10 points, name this setting of Night, an infamous concentration camp.
Auschwitz [prompt on concentration camp] &lt;Carlson&gt; Note: the first sentence’s clue is about This Way to the Gas, Ladies and Gentlemen
5

153051-)
One of this author’s early works was written about a complicated romance between three female friends at Johns Hopkins, Quod Erat Demonstrandum. The subtitle Being a History of a Family’s Progress appears in this author’s work about the Dehnings and Herslands, The Making of Americans. This writer told the stories of Anna Federner, Lena Mainz, and Melanctha Herbert in Three Lives. This author’s poem “A Carafe, That Is a Blind Glass” appears in the first section of (*) Tender Buttons and exemplifies her Cubism. In “Sacred Emily,” this author wrote a “rose is a rose is a rose is a rose.” Most of her major works were written after she moved to France. For 10 points, name this expatriate author of the “Lost Generation” who wrote an “autobiography” about her lover, Alice B. Toklas.
Gertrude Stein &lt;Mathew&gt;
5

153103-)
At the end of the second act of this play, the curtain closes on the still image of a man’s extended hands illuminated by a “white flash of lightning.” In the short story that was later reworked into this play, Edith exclaims “Ah, life” in sexual arousal after thwarting an attempted rape by the older of the two gay writers whom she stalks. A character in this play constantly “laughs with a single harsh, loud bark, opening her mouth like a seal expecting a fish to be thrown to it,” which this play renders as the exclamation (*) “Hah!” A character in this play screams when a burning cigarette falls on his body, because he has been tied to a hammock to prevent him from killing himself. The final scene of this play juxtaposes a ninety-seven year old author dying immediately after dictating his final poem to his granddaughter with the title animal getting cut free of its rope by a defrocked priest turned tour bus guide. For 10 points, name this play in which Hannah Jelkes and Larry Shannon cross paths at a Mexican hotel run by Maxine Faulk, written by Tennessee Williams.
The Night of the Iguana &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153110-)
Because he has a crush on Mirabel, a boy in this novel gives her preacher father a frog as a gift to ask for her hand in marriage, after which he is banned from the Baptist church for witchcraft. Two boys in this novel name the losing snail in a snail race, along with everything else they think is stupid, “Richard.” During an Easter church service, a character in this novel sings about how a “Dove has failed” in reference to a girl who spilled two drops of water and was beaten. Because that song in this novel is sung in (*) Twi, it prompts Aku to adopt Kojo after a man called the Devil beats Ness and hangs her husband Sam for running away. Baaba gives a character in this novel a black stone pendant, telling her that her own mother lit her village on fire. In this novel, Akosua refuses to shake the hand of James Richard Collins at the funeral of his grandfather, an Asante chief, because his family are slave traders. This novel ends with Marjorie and Marcus visiting the female dungeons at the Castle. The descendants of Maame’s daughters Effia and Esi are the subject of, for 10 points, what novel by the Ghanaian–American author Yaa Gyasi?
Homegoing &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153133-)
In a play by this author, a character quotes Georges Bernanos to say that hell is cold in protest of the Professor’s selections from the bookshelf. Another of this author’s characters is obsessed with her boss, whose name means that she was born during a winter snowstorm. In a play by this author, the Professor and Marina argue about which books they should burn to keep warm during the war. After she gets her first period, Leopoldine is murdered by her cousin, an aficionado of Brandy Alexanders, in a novel by this author. This author of (*) Human Rites wrote about a woman who goes from changing calendar dates to writing a report about the butter industry for Mr. Tenshi before she strips naked while working overnight in accounting for Fubuki Mori at the Yumimoto corporation. In a novel by this author, a series of journalists are too disgusted to interview the elderly, obese author Pretextat Tach, who is dying of the rare Elzenveiverplatz syndrome. For 10 points, name this Belgian author of Fear and Trembling and Hygiene and the Assassin.
Amélie Nothomb [or Fabienne-Claire Nothomb] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153136-)
The narrator of this book recalls when he descended into a storm cellar “and saw the whole land at night become visible and blue and phosphorescent in the flash of lightning.” The epilogue to this book relates how one the first events in many calendars was a meteor shower whose brilliance woke many people up on a night in 1833. The speaker observes that “Silence is the long approach of noon / Upon the shadow that your name defines / And death this cold, black density of stone,” in the poem titled for a “cemetery” at the title place that concludes this book. This book tells the myth of how the (*) spider grandmother determined the gender of the sun’s child, which is accompanied by an illustration of the spider by the author’s father Al. This book is divided into sections titled “The Setting Out,” “The Going On,” and “Closing In,” most of which alternate italicized reminisces of the author’s grandmother Aho with passages about Kiowa myth and history. For 10 points, name this book by N. Scott Momaday that charts the title resettlement of his tribe from Montana to Oklahoma.
The Way to Rainy Mountain &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153141-)
A remark by this critic inspired the collection The Jazz Cadence of American Culture and other works of the so-called “New Jazz Studies” by Robert G. O’Meally. This critic once defined the blues as an “impulse to keep the painful details...of a brutal experience alive...by squeezing from it a near-tragic, near-comic lyricism.” This critic rightly complained that “there is but the bare beginnings of a historiography of jazz” in an essay on his Oklahoma City schoolmate Charlie Christian. This man’s first collection includes a vicious review of LeRoi Jones’s Blues People, as well as attacks on bebop in essays like “The Golden Age, Time Past,” and “On (*) Bird, Bird-Watching and Jazz,” and a response to Irving Howe called “The World and the Jug.” In the prologue to a novel by this author, its protagonist wishes to buy five phonographs to play Louis Armstrong records at once, in a room lit by 1,369 light bulbs. For 10 points, name this author of Shadow and Act and Invisible Man.
Ralph (Waldo) Ellison &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153145-)
In a play set during this decade, a man lies to his wife and says he is drinking tea, rather than coffee spiked with whiskey by the maid. A play set during this decade ends with a series of images including the fall of the Berlin Wall and the Twin Towers on 9/11. In a play set during this decade, the protagonist and the angel of death Camae have a pillow fight after the angel uses a rotary phone to call God, who is a black woman and “a fuuuunnny-ass muthafucka.” In a play set during this decade, a waitress who (*) cuts her legs with razors to discourage sexual advances is distraught by the death of Prophet Samuel. Because a white man had paid for a fence-painting job by giving Hambone a chicken instead of the promised ham, Sterling smashes a window to steal a ham for Hambone’s funeral, at the end of a play set during this decade at Memphis’s diner in Pittsburgh’s Hill District. For 10 points, name this decade, the setting of August Wilson’s Two Trains Running and of Katori Hall’s The Mountaintop, which is about the last night of Martin Luther King Jr’s life.
the 1960s &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153162-)
At a fictional version of this university, a scholar of George Kenna is swarmed by protesting women after helping the sexist Professor Dibble escape down a rope through an office window. Romanticists flocked to this university after it amassed the second largest Wordsworth collection in the world and hired M.H. Abrams, who based the first edition of the Norton Anthology of English Literature on a survey class he taught here. The most prominent joint MFA/PhD program is offered by the English department of this school, where students like Thomas Pynchon saw Vera (*) Nabokov pass out blue books at her husband’s lectures. Allan Bloom ended The Closing of the American Mind by fuming over a 1969 incident in which Afro-American Society students carrying guns and bandoleers occupied Willard Straight Hall, the student union of this school’s central campus. For 10 points, name this college which Richard Fariña fictionalized as Mentor University, which is a reference to the Odyssey much like the name of its real-life hometown of Ithaca, New York.
Cornell University (The first sentence is about Alison Lurie’s The War Between the Tates.) &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153163-)
In his Otia Imperialia, Gervase of Tilbury explained that this condition’s existence can be proven by the fact that snakes have white bands on their heads. In Haitian legends, people with this condition were nicknamed for their red eyes. In Greek stories, Damarchus overcame this condition to become a champion boxer. A baron with this condition who tears off his wife’s nose for hiding his clothing was worked into the Arthurian sagas as the Tales of Melion and Marrok. In the Volsunga saga, Sigmund uses a magical leaf to heal (*) Sinfjotli’s wounded windpipe after the two of them spend months being afflicted by this condition. People with this condition were called bisclavret by the Bretons, after a popular lai by Marie de France. A man with this condition from Gevaudan popularized most of the common legends about it today. This condition gets its most common name from a son of Pelasgus who served the roasted flesh of his sons Nyctimus to Zeus, who angrily summoned a great flood in turn. For 10 points, name this condition legendarily treated by aconite, or, in more dire circumstances, by a silver bullet.
lycanthropy [or being a werewolf; or obvious equivalents like turning into a wolf; prompt on partial answers] &lt;Mythology/Geography/Current Events&gt;
9

153178-)
With “the shriek of babies being ground beneath blue-hot rollers,” a character in this story politely says: “Hate. Let me tell you how much I’ve come to hate you since I began to live.” This story invokes the mythical Hvergelmir, roc, and Hurakan to describe a massive bird that creates hurricanes when it flaps its wings. The antagonist of this story repeats the phrases “I think, therefore I am” and “Cogito ergo sum,” which are presented in the form of (*) punchcode tape messages. At the ice cavern where they all journey in search of canned food, the narrator of this story uses Benny biting the flesh off Gorrister’s face as a distraction to stab both of them with icicles, killing them after 109 years of them being kept alive as torture. The narrator utters the title line of this story after he is consequently mutated into a “great soft jelly thing” as punishment by the sadistic supercomputer AM. For 10 points, name this horrific post-apocalyptic science fiction story by Harlan Ellison.
“I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream” &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
9

153186-)
This book declares that “pigritia” is a terrible word because it engenders the concepts of both theft and hunger, in a section that then notes that we live in a land of slang, going on to dissect the use of argots as a literary and social phenomenon. A so-called "Parenthesis" in this book criticizes convents for isolating its residents from the rest of the world. The narrator of this book recalls seeing a well in Hougoumont that was crammed with dead bodies while relating a lengthy recap of the Battle of (*) Waterloo. At the end of that section, this book describes how a thief who is looting dead bodies inadvertently saves the life of a colonel, whose life would be saved again years later by a seventeen-year old girl dressed as a boy throwing herself in front of a musket. Before launching into the main plot, this novel presents a novella-length analysis of the history and habits of the Bishop Myriel. For 10 points, name this novel that includes sizable digressions on topics like the Parisian sewer system, which appears in the final volume entitled “Jean Valjean.”
Les Misérables [accept a litany of English translations nobody ever uses, such as The Miserables, The Wretched, The Miserable Ones, The Poor Ones, The Wretched Poor, The Victims and The Dispossessed] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153209-)
This poet echoed Robert Lowell’s “Man and Wife” to declare in a book that “each body is a strange beach, and if you let in the excess emotion you will recall the / Atlantic Ocean breaking on our heads.” A book-length poem by this author ends by considering the implications of Paul Celan’s statement that “I cannot see any basic difference between a handshake and a poem.” This author recalled feeling as if “a wounded Doberman pinscher… gained the power of speech” after arriving at her therapist’s for an appointment and being barked at to “Get away from my house!” This author of (*) Don’t Let Me Be Lonely collaborated with her filmmaker husband John Lucas to create “Situation Videos” illustrating several excerpts from her best-known book, such as one that repeats the phrases “you are not the guy” and “get on the ground” in a freeform evocation of a stop and frisk encounter, and one laced with several snapshots of Zinedine Zidane’s headbutt. For 10 points, name this Jamaican-born author of a 2014 book-length poem about racial injustice, titled Citizen.
Claudia Rankine
9

153219-)
In a play by this author, a comedian describes how feeling persecuted for being racist is akin to taking “a SHIT in yo FACE for three hundred years and then felt persecuted when you didn’t swallow!” A girl is repeatedly slapped in the face at the start of a play by this author which centers on a girl wearing a pink giraffe shirt before a couple arguing about their relationship takes over the play. Two cranes begin to eat each other’s eyes which then swell to the size of the world in a parable told by Grandma in Heaven in a play by this writer of (*) Songs of the Dragons Flying to Heaven. Rapper Omar and Drug Dealer Desmond high-five each other after forgetting that they are black in a play by this author which ends with Pete’s monologue about playing the flute before a blackout, then the constant strobing of lights. Three brothers visit their widowed father Ed and eat Chinese takeout for Christmas in a play by this author of The Shipment. For 10 points, identify this Korean-American playwright of Straight White Men, the first Asian-American woman to have a play on Broadway.
Young Jean Lee &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153222-)
The narrator of a 2007 novel set in this city observes beads of kerosene glistening in the hair of an eleven year old boy who is burned alive for stealing from a market. After her nephew attempts suicide, a woman delays her plans to move to this city, which she had announced in an email she sent to her ex-boyfriend “Ceiling” while he is stuck in traffic in this city. The one-eyed King of Beggars helps an Elvis impersonator navigate the slums of this city in the novel GraceLand by Chris (*) Abani. After breaking up with the Yale professor Blaine and shutting down her blog Raceteenth, a woman accepts a job at a magazine in this city. The protagonist of Teju Cole’s Every Day Is For The Thief returns from New York to this city, where he observes “yahoo yahoos” in internet cafes running email scams. For 10 points, name this place where the lovers Ifemelu and Obinze finally reunite at the end of Chimamanda Adichie’s novel Americanah, a major African city.
Lagos &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153230-)
Because he has a crush on Mirabel, a boy in this novel gives her preacher father a frog as a gift to ask for her hand in marriage, after which he is banned from the Baptist church for witchcraft. Two boys in this novel name the losing snail in a snail race, along with everything else they think is stupid, “Richard.” During an Easter church service, a character in this novel sings about how a “Dove has failed” in reference to a girl who spilled two drops of water and was beaten. Because that song in this novel is sung in (*) Twi, it prompts Aku to adopt Kojo after a man called the Devil beats Ness and hangs her husband Sam for running away. Baaba gives a character in this novel a black stone pendant, telling her that her own mother lit her village on fire. In this novel, Akosua refuses to shake the hand of James Richard Collins at the funeral of his grandfather, an Asante chief, because his family are slave traders. This novel ends with Marjorie and Marcus visiting the female dungeons at the Castle. The descendants of Maame’s daughters Effia and Esi are the subject of, for 10 points, what novel by the Ghanaian–American author Yaa Gyasi?
Homegoing &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153253-)
In a play by this author, a character quotes Georges Bernanos to say that hell is cold in protest of the Professor’s selections from the bookshelf. Another of this author’s characters is obsessed with her boss, whose name means that she was born during a winter snowstorm. In a play by this author, the Professor and Marina argue about which books they should burn to keep warm during the war. After she gets her first period, Leopoldine is murdered by her cousin, an aficionado of Brandy Alexanders, in a novel by this author. This author of (*) Human Rites wrote about a woman who goes from changing calendar dates to writing a report about the butter industry for Mr. Tenshi before she strips naked while working overnight in accounting for Fubuki Mori at the Yumimoto corporation. In a novel by this author, a series of journalists are too disgusted to interview the elderly, obese author Pretextat Tach, who is dying of the rare Elzenveiverplatz syndrome. For 10 points, name this Belgian author of Fear and Trembling and Hygiene and the Assassin.
Amélie Nothomb [or Fabienne-Claire Nothomb] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153256-)
The narrator of this book recalls when he descended into a storm cellar “and saw the whole land at night become visible and blue and phosphorescent in the flash of lightning.” The epilogue to this book relates how one the first events in many calendars was a meteor shower whose brilliance woke many people up on a night in 1833. The speaker observes that “Silence is the long approach of noon / Upon the shadow that your name defines / And death this cold, black density of stone,” in the poem titled for a “cemetery” at the title place that concludes this book. This book tells the myth of how the (*) spider grandmother determined the gender of the sun’s child, which is accompanied by an illustration of the spider by the author’s father Al. This book is divided into sections titled “The Setting Out,” “The Going On,” and “Closing In,” most of which alternate italicized reminisces of the author’s grandmother Aho with passages about Kiowa myth and history. For 10 points, name this book by N. Scott Momaday that charts the title resettlement of his tribe from Montana to Oklahoma.
The Way to Rainy Mountain &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153261-)
A remark by this critic inspired the collection The Jazz Cadence of American Culture and other works of the so-called “New Jazz Studies” by Robert G. O’Meally. This critic once defined the blues as an “impulse to keep the painful details...of a brutal experience alive...by squeezing from it a near-tragic, near-comic lyricism.” This critic rightly complained that “there is but the bare beginnings of a historiography of jazz” in an essay on his Oklahoma City schoolmate Charlie Christian. This man’s first collection includes a vicious review of LeRoi Jones’s Blues People, as well as attacks on bebop in essays like “The Golden Age, Time Past,” and “On (*) Bird, Bird-Watching and Jazz,” and a response to Irving Howe called “The World and the Jug.” In the prologue to a novel by this author, its protagonist wishes to buy five phonographs to play Louis Armstrong records at once, in a room lit by 1,369 light bulbs. For 10 points, name this author of Shadow and Act and Invisible Man.
Ralph (Waldo) Ellison &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153265-)
In a play set during this decade, a man lies to his wife and says he is drinking tea, rather than coffee spiked with whiskey by the maid. A play set during this decade ends with a series of images including the fall of the Berlin Wall and the Twin Towers on 9/11. In a play set during this decade, the protagonist and the angel of death Camae have a pillow fight after the angel uses a rotary phone to call God, who is a black woman and “a fuuuunnny-ass muthafucka.” In a play set during this decade, a waitress who (*) cuts her legs with razors to discourage sexual advances is distraught by the death of Prophet Samuel. Because a white man had paid for a fence-painting job by giving Hambone a chicken instead of the promised ham, Sterling smashes a window to steal a ham for Hambone’s funeral, at the end of a play set during this decade at Memphis’s diner in Pittsburgh’s Hill District. For 10 points, name this decade, the setting of August Wilson’s Two Trains Running and of Katori Hall’s The Mountaintop, which is about the last night of Martin Luther King Jr’s life.
the 1960s &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153271-)
The author of this play replaced a reference to “Red China” with “North Korea” in a list of suggested “contemporary” revisions included as an appendix in print editions following its 2004 Broadway revival. Following the direction “There’s no self-pity here” in her climactic monologue, a character in this play describes seeing “Who I never was. Or who I tried to be and never got there” in an “old baby picture” of herself. During a “genuine, but uneasy" truce in this play, a character buys time by making caramel apples and cocoa, even though she hates (*) milk. A woman in this play believes that a horse-riding accident was the cause of her epilepsy, because she was never told that it was inherited from her father. The protagonist of this play plans the next twenty Christmases and birthdays for her brother Dawson, whom she had tricked into selling a box of ammunition. Thelma Cates mutters the words “I thought you were mine” in shock after hearing a gunshot in her daughter Jessie’s bedroom at the end of—for 10 points—what dark Pulitzer-winning play by Marsha Norman?
‘night, Mother &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153279-)
With Roger Bennett, a man with this surname organized a 2010 public art competition in which experimental sukkahs were exhibited in Union Square. An author with this surname wrote a novel in which the protagonist mistakenly identifies the uncircumcised man next to him in a Panda Express bathroom as Steven Spielberg. In 2014, Chris Hughes fired a journalist with this surname and replaced him with Gabriel Snyder, causing a wave of resignations at The New Republic. With Dylan Thura, a man with this surname founded the website Atlas (*) Obscura. That writer with this surname chronicled his path to winning the 2006 USA Memory Championships in the book Moonwalking with Einstein. An author with this surname created a character who tells an elderly man about an answering machine message left for him by his father during the 9/11 attacks, before returning a mysterious key he earlier found in a broken vase. For 10 points, name this surname that journalists Franklin and Joshua share with their brother, who wrote the novel Extremely Loud &amp; Incredibly Close.
Foer [FOY-er] [accept Franklin Foer, Joshua Foer, or Jonathan Safran Foer] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153283-)
A drunken, mud-covered character in this novel unleashes a tirade against the government for allowing a black college professor to vote on election day. Shelley Fishkin cited the similarity of its main character’s speech patterns to “Sociable Jimmy” in a book examining if its main character was black. Its 23rd chapter ends with silence after one of its characters laments beating his young daughter for disobedience, only to learn she was deaf and dumb. Ralph Ellison’s essay “Change the Joke and Slip the Yoke” argues that the “dignity and human complexity” of a major character in this novel emerges from behind “the stereotype mask” of the (*) minstrel tradition. In Playing in the Dark, Toni Morrison argued that this novel’s “fatal ending” constantly defers an escape because there is no way for its main character to “mature into a moral human being” without “the specter of enslavement.” For 10 points, an oft-critically-panned ending featuring an elaborate plot to free an escaped slave from the Phelps farm ends what novel largely set on a raft in the Mississippi river?
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153286-)
B. Roland Lewis was the first to note that this document opens by copying a formula from William West’s Symbolaeographia. This document includes a recommendation to purchase a mourning ring for William Reynolds, the son of recusant parents who had been fined for sheltering a Jesuit, in a passage sometimes held to reveal hidden Catholic sentiment on the part of the author. Thomas Quiney’s name was removed from the second draft of this document, perhaps because of the revelation that he (*) impregnated Margaret Wheeler, who died in childbirth. The words “brown best” appear in the first publication of this document, 1763’s Biographia Britannica, instead of the later accepted transcription. Peter Ackroyd addressed outrage at the most notorious stipulation of this document by arguing that dower law would have already guaranteed the spouse a third of the estate in question. For 10 points, what document offers its author’s “second best bed” to Anne Hathaway?
William Shakespeare’s will [or William Shakespeare’s last testament] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153302-)
At a fictional version of this university, a scholar of George Kenna is swarmed by protesting women after helping the sexist Professor Dibble escape down a rope through an office window. Romanticists flocked to this university after it amassed the second largest Wordsworth collection in the world and hired M.H. Abrams, who based the first edition of the Norton Anthology of English Literature on a survey class he taught here. The most prominent joint MFA/PhD program is offered by the English department of this school, where students like Thomas Pynchon saw Vera (*) Nabokov pass out blue books at her husband’s lectures. Allan Bloom ended The Closing of the American Mind by fuming over a 1969 incident in which Afro-American Society students carrying guns and bandoleers occupied Willard Straight Hall, the student union of this school’s central campus. For 10 points, name this college which Richard Fariña fictionalized as Mentor University, which is a reference to the Odyssey much like the name of its real-life hometown of Ithaca, New York.
Cornell University (The first sentence is about Alison Lurie’s The War Between the Tates.) &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153303-)
In his Otia Imperialia, Gervase of Tilbury explained that this condition’s existence can be proven by the fact that snakes have white bands on their heads. In Haitian legends, people with this condition were nicknamed for their red eyes. In Greek stories, Damarchus overcame this condition to become a champion boxer. A baron with this condition who tears off his wife’s nose for hiding his clothing was worked into the Arthurian sagas as the Tales of Melion and Marrok. In the Volsunga saga, Sigmund uses a magical leaf to heal (*) Sinfjotli’s wounded windpipe after the two of them spend months being afflicted by this condition. People with this condition were called bisclavret by the Bretons, after a popular lai by Marie de France. A man with this condition from Gevaudan popularized most of the common legends about it today. This condition gets its most common name from a son of Pelasgus who served the roasted flesh of his sons Nyctimus to Zeus, who angrily summoned a great flood in turn. For 10 points, name this condition legendarily treated by aconite, or, in more dire circumstances, by a silver bullet.
lycanthropy [or being a werewolf; or obvious equivalents like turning into a wolf; prompt on partial answers] &lt;Mythology/Geography/Current Events&gt;
9

153318-)
With “the shriek of babies being ground beneath blue-hot rollers,” a character in this story politely says: “Hate. Let me tell you how much I’ve come to hate you since I began to live.” This story invokes the mythical Hvergelmir, roc, and Hurakan to describe a massive bird that creates hurricanes when it flaps its wings. The antagonist of this story repeats the phrases “I think, therefore I am” and “Cogito ergo sum,” which are presented in the form of (*) punchcode tape messages. At the ice cavern where they all journey in search of canned food, the narrator of this story uses Benny biting the flesh off Gorrister’s face as a distraction to stab both of them with icicles, killing them after 109 years of them being kept alive as torture. The narrator utters the title line of this story after he is consequently mutated into a “great soft jelly thing” as punishment by the sadistic supercomputer AM. For 10 points, name this horrific post-apocalyptic science fiction story by Harlan Ellison.
“I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream” &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
9

153349-)
This poet echoed Robert Lowell’s “Man and Wife” to declare in a book that “each body is a strange beach, and if you let in the excess emotion you will recall the / Atlantic Ocean breaking on our heads.” A book-length poem by this author ends by considering the implications of Paul Celan’s statement that “I cannot see any basic difference between a handshake and a poem.” This author recalled feeling as if “a wounded Doberman pinscher… gained the power of speech” after arriving at her therapist’s for an appointment and being barked at to “Get away from my house!” This author of (*) Don’t Let Me Be Lonely collaborated with her filmmaker husband John Lucas to create “Situation Videos” illustrating several excerpts from her best-known book, such as one that repeats the phrases “you are not the guy” and “get on the ground” in a freeform evocation of a stop and frisk encounter, and one laced with several snapshots of Zinedine Zidane’s headbutt. For 10 points, name this Jamaican-born author of a 2014 book-length poem about racial injustice, titled Citizen.
Claudia Rankine &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153359-)
In a play by this author, a comedian describes how feeling persecuted for being racist is akin to taking “a SHIT in yo FACE for three hundred years and then felt persecuted when you didn’t swallow!” A girl is repeatedly slapped in the face at the start of a play by this author which centers on a girl wearing a pink giraffe shirt before a couple arguing about their relationship takes over the play. Two cranes begin to eat each other’s eyes which then swell to the size of the world in a parable told by Grandma in Heaven in a play by this writer of (*) Songs of the Dragons Flying to Heaven. Rapper Omar and Drug Dealer Desmond high-five each other after forgetting that they are black in a play by this author which ends with Pete’s monologue about playing the flute before a blackout, then the constant strobing of lights. Three brothers visit their widowed father Ed and eat Chinese takeout for Christmas in a play by this author of The Shipment. For 10 points, identify this Korean-American playwright of Straight White Men, the first Asian-American woman to have a play on Broadway.
Young Jean Lee &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153362-)
The narrator of a 2007 novel set in this city observes beads of kerosene glistening in the hair of an eleven year old boy who is burned alive for stealing from a market. After her nephew attempts suicide, a woman delays her plans to move to this city, which she had announced in an email she sent to her ex-boyfriend “Ceiling” while he is stuck in traffic in this city. The one-eyed King of Beggars helps an Elvis impersonator navigate the slums of this city in the novel GraceLand by Chris (*) Abani. After breaking up with the Yale professor Blaine and shutting down her blog Raceteenth, a woman accepts a job at a magazine in this city. The protagonist of Teju Cole’s Every Day Is For The Thief returns from New York to this city, where he observes “yahoo yahoos” in internet cafes running email scams. For 10 points, name this place where the lovers Ifemelu and Obinze finally reunite at the end of Chimamanda Adichie’s novel Americanah, a major African city.
Lagos &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153371-)
The author of this play replaced a reference to “Red China” with “North Korea” in a list of suggested “contemporary” revisions included as an appendix in print editions following its 2004 Broadway revival. Following the direction “There’s no self-pity here” in her climactic monologue, a character in this play describes seeing “Who I never was. Or who I tried to be and never got there” in an “old baby picture” of herself. During a “genuine, but uneasy" truce in this play, a character buys time by making caramel apples and cocoa, even though she hates (*) milk. A woman in this play believes that a horse-riding accident was the cause of her epilepsy, because she was never told that it was inherited from her father. The protagonist of this play plans the next twenty Christmases and birthdays for her brother Dawson, whom she had tricked into selling a box of ammunition. Thelma Cates mutters the words “I thought you were mine” in shock after hearing a gunshot in her daughter Jessie’s bedroom at the end of—for 10 points—what dark Pulitzer-winning play by Marsha Norman?
‘night, Mother &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153379-)
With Roger Bennett, a man with this surname organized a 2010 public art competition in which experimental sukkahs were exhibited in Union Square. An author with this surname wrote a novel in which the protagonist mistakenly identifies the uncircumcised man next to him in a Panda Express bathroom as Steven Spielberg. In 2014, Chris Hughes fired a journalist with this surname and replaced him with Gabriel Snyder, causing a wave of resignations at The New Republic. With Dylan Thura, a man with this surname founded the website Atlas (*) Obscura. That writer with this surname chronicled his path to winning the 2006 USA Memory Championships in the book Moonwalking with Einstein. An author with this surname created a character who tells an elderly man about an answering machine message left for him by his father during the 9/11 attacks, before returning a mysterious key he earlier found in a broken vase. For 10 points, name this surname that journalists Franklin and Joshua share with their brother, who wrote the novel Extremely Loud &amp; Incredibly Close.
Foer [FOY-er] [accept Franklin Foer, Joshua Foer, or Jonathan Safran Foer] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153383-)
A drunken, mud-covered character in this novel unleashes a tirade against the government for allowing a black college professor to vote on election day. Shelley Fishkin cited the similarity of its main character’s speech patterns to “Sociable Jimmy” in a book examining if its main character was black. Its 23rd chapter ends with silence after one of its characters laments beating his young daughter for disobedience, only to learn she was deaf and dumb. Ralph Ellison’s essay “Change the Joke and Slip the Yoke” argues that the “dignity and human complexity” of a major character in this novel emerges from behind “the stereotype mask” of the (*) minstrel tradition. In Playing in the Dark, Toni Morrison argued that this novel’s “fatal ending” constantly defers an escape because there is no way for its main character to “mature into a moral human being” without “the specter of enslavement.” For 10 points, an oft-critically-panned ending featuring an elaborate plot to free an escaped slave from the Phelps farm ends what novel largely set on a raft in the Mississippi river?
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153390-)
A practice associated with these places was criticized as “suggestive of loose-living” in Katip Celebi’s The Balance of Truth. In one tradition, these places are associated with achieving a state of marqaha. One of these places named Qushtumur titles the final novel by Naguib Mahfouz, who frequently set scenes in places of this type called ‘ahawis. The ulama’s influence on Shah Abbas I likely led him to send mullahs to these places to recite homilies and poetry. One book argues that, along with Tisch·gesellschaften and (*) salons, these places were representative institutions of the “town,” and claims that they “preserved a kind of social intercourse that, far from presupposing equality of status, disregarded status altogether.” Post-Restoration examples of these establishments helped foster debates among the bourgeoisie, according to Jurgen Habermas’s Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere. For 10 points, name these historically male-dominated establishments that serve drinks made from robusta and arabica beans.
coffeehouses [accept coffee shops, cafés or any answer indicating a place where coffee is drunk] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153410-)
A practice associated with these places was criticized as “suggestive of loose-living” in Katip Celebi’s The Balance of Truth. In one tradition, these places are associated with achieving a state of marqaha. One of these places named Qushtumur titles the final novel by Naguib Mahfouz, who frequently set scenes in places of this type called ‘ahawis. The ulama’s influence on Shah Abbas I likely led him to send mullahs to these places to recite homilies and poetry. One book argues that, along with Tisch·gesellschaften and (*) salons, these places were representative institutions of the “town,” and claims that they “preserved a kind of social intercourse that, far from presupposing equality of status, disregarded status altogether.” Post-Restoration examples of these establishments helped foster debates among the bourgeoisie, according to Jurgen Habermas’s Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere. For 10 points, name these historically male-dominated establishments that serve drinks made from robusta and arabica beans.
coffeehouses [accept coffee shops, cafés or any answer indicating a place where coffee is drunk] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153429-)
A “passenger” preparing to receive one of these objects feels “sunlight on water” “rinsing through his eyes / and dissolving all around him” in a poem by Cathy Song, whose debut collection examines the role that these things played in bringing together her Chinese-American grandfather and her Korean immigrant grandmother. In Sylvia Plath’s poem “Tulips,” “little smiling hooks" jut out from one of these objects “and catch on” to the speaker’s skin. The speaker of a poem from the volume The Circle Game notes that in one of these objects, it is “difficult to say where / precisely, or to say / how large or small” (*) she is, but promises that “if you look long enough, / eventually / you will be able to see me.” A little girl peruses a set of these things depicting “A dead man slung on a pole” and “the inside of a volcano, / black and full of ashes" in Elizabeth Bishop’s “In the Waiting Room.” For 10 points, the speaker of an oft-anthologized Margaret Atwood poem describes what type of object that “was taken / the day after” she drowned?
photographs [or pictures; prompt on images; prompt on magazines; accept “Untouched Photograph of Passenger” or Picture Bride or “This is a Photograph of Me”] &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153440-)
One of this author’s characters fantasizes about a woman stripping down to a cocktail dress at a religious banquet and singing “Falling in Love Again” on a table. This author wrote the lines “Stop the noise / Fear death / Shut her mouth” in a poem presented as a translation of Swahili phrases. Aunt Lily moves in with the Crump family after Godfrey brings them to Brooklyn in search of Father Divine in this author’s play Crumbs from the Table of Joy. (*) Salima watches her baby’s head get crushed by a soldier’s boot before being sold to the traveling salesman Christian in a play by this author in which Sophie and Josephine sing and dance for rebel soldiers at a brothel owned by Mama Nadi. Stan tells the bar patrons Cynthia, Tracey, and Jessie that they could be laid off if the steel tubing factory moves to Mexico in this author’s play about factory workers in Reading, Pennsylvania. For 10 points, name this contemporary playwright who won the Pulitzer for her plays of Ruined and Sweat.
Lynn Nottage &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153448-)
In a 2011 novel, an English professor and an enthusiast of the landscape painter Thomas Karvel escape from being enslaved by a two-hundred year old version of this character. An author’s note identifies an Ethiopian verbal root meaning “to be shady” that can be formed from this character’s drawings of the chasms that he descends. An all-black mining crew meets this character from an earlier novel in a satiric book by Mat Johnson, who modeled a race of hairy white giants called the “Tekelians” after the massive (*) human figure with skin “of perfect whiteness of the snow” mentioned in the last sentence of the novel titled for this man. Though he immerses several men in water to stave off their hunger-induced madness, this character eventually joins them in eating the flesh of the mutineer Parker. After natives with black teeth slaughter most of the crew of the Jane Guy, this character and Dirk Peters continue alone to the South Pole. For 10 points, name this resident of Nantucket who stows away on the Grampus at the start of the bizarre only novel by Edgar Allan Poe.
Arthur Gordon Pym &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153452-)
In a story by this author, a man tells his date about how staring in solitude at Delacroix’s The Barque of Dante at the Louvre made him realize that “A painting like that… just makes you shit.” This author repeated the word “Ha!” for five pages straight to represent a woman’s response to her husband’s serial infidelity, in a story in which she shoos away a teenager squatting in her attic shortly before gunning down a burglar in her bedroom. A doctor tells a guy that he has six weeks to live, then delivers the title punchline when asked for a second opinion, in one of the morbid jokes favored by the unmarried history professor (*) Zoë Hendricks in this author’s story “You’re Ugly, Too.” This author wrote of an infant, referred to simply as The Baby, who is diagnosed with cancer in her story “People Like That Are the Only People Here,” which appears in a collection set partly at a house in Key West where Audubon shot the title animals before painting them. For 10 points, name this author who collected her witty stories in volumes such as Like Life and Birds of America.
Lorrie Moore [or Marie Lorena Moore] &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
9

153462-)
In this book, two elderly workers at a medical laboratory fight each other with a knife and ice pick, breaking several animals out of their cages. This book ends with its narrator resolving to “build a bridge of words” between himself and a “world which was so distant and elusive that it seemed unreal.” To his mother’s disapproval, the protagonist of this book reads Proust by night after spending his days binge eating to meet the weight requirement for applying to be a postal worker. The protagonist of this book is thrown out of a (*) May Day parade and is labeled a Trotskyite for walking out of the show trial for Ross, one of several black Communists whom he had interviewed for the source material to his story “Big Boy Leaves Home.” The second part of this memoir, which was long excluded from most editions until it was finally published in 1977 as American Hunger, details its author’s life in Chicago after moving from Mississippi. For 10 points, name this novelistic autobiography by Richard Wright.
Black Boy [accept American Hunger until it is read] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153472-)
In this poem, a goat stands “immune to the force of gravity” as the “sun kindl[es] its shoulders to maximum heat like acetylene, / dyeing them white.” The penultimate stanza of this poem laments that a “public out of sympathy / with neatness” had damned Henry James “for decorum,” and quips that “the Greeks / amused themselves with delicate behavior / because it was ‘so noble and so fair.’" The author divided a never-realized poem about Adam and Eve into the poetic dialogue “Marriage” and this other poem, whose title is meant to be parsed together with its first two words, (*) “of ice.” This longest poem in the collection Observations inlays many quotations from a Department of the Interior field guide. It ends by describing an animal “symmetrically pointed, / its claw cut by the avalanche / ‘with a sound like the crack of a rifle, / in a curtain of powdered snow launched like a waterfall.’” For 10 points, name this Marianne Moore poem about the peak of Mount Rainier, which resembles the title invertebrate.
“An Octopus” &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153479-)
In a novel by this author, a worker at the butcher is strip-searched and weighed to make sure she doesn’t steal, so she gets revenge by sleeping with the butcher’s husband. One of this author’s characters goes to the marshlands to catch frogs and “punish them for being frogs” by stabbing them with a safety pin. Two of this author’s characters use Home and Garden magazine pictures to pretend to have a pillow fight on a king size bed and watch American sitcoms. A four-year-old girl burns a tire around her friend’s neck because the Young (*) Tigers tell her he is a sell-out in a novel by this author. Adam De Vries defends Reverend Francois Bornman and men who participate in orgies with Niki and other black women at Johannes Smit’s barn in this author’s novel The Madonna of Excelsior. This author wrote about the professional mourner Toloki moving in with a woman from his village, Noria, after her five-year-old son Vutha is killed during post-Apartheid violence. For 10 points, name this South African author of Ways of Dying.
Zakes Mda [or Zanemvula Kizito Gatyeni Mda] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153490-)
In an early edition of this novel, its protagonist dreams of idyllic scenes from the dawn of European civilization coming to life within a Claude Lorrain landscape. A character in this novel begins shrieking with an “animal voice" until a cloth is stuffed in his mouth, upon watching the corpse of a new father being weighted with stones and thrown into a pond. The protagonist describes sexually assaulting a fourteen year old girl, who hangs herself in shame, in an expurgated chapter of this novel styled as a (*) confession to the monk Tikhon. On his deathbed, a character in this novel asks to hear the story from the Gospel of Luke about the swine plunging down a cliff, which is quoted as the epigraph to this novel and is obliquely referenced by its title. In the Myth of Sisyphus, Camus describes the “absurd victory" won by one of its characters who shoots himself rather than sign a confession for the murder of his roommate Shatov. Kirilov and Stavrogin die staging a botched revolution in, for 10 points, what violent novel by Fyodor Dostoevsky?
The Possessed [or Demons; or The Devils; or Besy] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153513-)
A woman in this novel pictures her recurring headaches as jellyfish-like masses floating beside her on cobblestoned streets. A character in this novel feels as if no book on offer at a bookstore could signify as much as her singular childhood memory of hearing a tree branch tap against a windowpane. A housewife in this novel checks in to a hotel for a few hours to escape the guilt she feels for throwing away an imperfect birthday cake she had baked with her (*) son Richie. In this novel, on the evening of a party celebrating his being awarded the Carrouthers Prize, the AIDS-afflicted poet Richard Brown leaps to his death from the window of his fifth floor apartment. The prologue to this novel imagines the final moments of an author who had loaded her coat pocket with stones before wading into a river. The linked narratives of the lesbian New Yorker Clarissa Vaughan, the Mrs. Dalloway-obsessed Laura Brown, and Virginia Woolf herself comprise, for 10 points, what novel by Michael Cunningham?
The Hours &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153527-)
An old woman in this novella moves into a chateau where she installs electrical generators that emit so much radiation that they destroy the beaks of six hundred chickens, which all starve to death. The older brother of this novella’s protagonist compulsively steals from his mother, housekeeper, and sister to feed his opium and gambling habits. The protagonist of this novella fantasizes about sucking on the “flour-white” breasts of her classmate Hélène Lagonelle, the only friend whom she doesn’t alienate by leaving her (*) boarding school dormitory every night to meet the title character. The protagonist of this novella remembers how as a fifteen and a half year old girl, she wore a men’s fedora and gold lamé heels to her first meeting with the title elegantly-dressed millionaire, who waits for her in his limousine by the shore of the Mekong River. For 10 points, name this autobiographical novella about a teenage romance with a Chinese man, by Marguerite Duras.
The Lover [or L’Amant] &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
9

153532-)
To sum up his motivation for writing in his Paris Review interview, the author of this story quoted a line from it declaring: “I want to rise so high… that when I shit I won’t miss anybody.” This story lists the businesses, physical features, and social clubs of the town in which it is set, in sections titled “Vital Data,” “More Vital Data,” and “Final Vital Data.” The narrator of this story confesses that “You are alive, alive exactly, and it means nothing to you—much to me” to Mr. Tick, the cat lying asleep on his lap. In this story, the schoolteacher Miss (*) Jakes punishes Cheryl Pipes for stealing a quarter from a pocketbook, and the narrator’s nearly-blind neighbor Billy Holsclaw gathers piles wood and coal near his house to keep warm. This story ends on an evening the week of Christmas in which its narrator listens to “Joy to the World” streaming from the speaker of a water tower as snow blankets the vacant town square of B, Indiana. For 10 points, name this episodic story written by William Gass in homage to the Midwest.
“In the Heart of the Heart of the Country” &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
9

153545-)
An essay by this author considers the inclusion of a lively assemblage of fake plants in an exhibit otherwise showcasing the personal pain of the artist Thornton Dial as an example of how art can help achieve a “more complete, complex understanding of happiness.” In a story by this author, a man attends an opera fearing at any moment that an aria could be sung at the resonant frequency of his wife’s glass body, shattering it. In a collection by this author, an essay praising the BET show Girlfriend for being a better representation of girlhood than Lena Dunham’s Girls comes immediately after an itemized list of “How to Be Friends With Another (*) Woman.” A memoir by this author relates how after she was gang-raped at the age of twelve, she overate and gained hundreds of pounds. This author of Difficult Women is best known for a book of essays arguing that her enjoyment of Robin Thicke’s “Blurred Lines” and the color pink does not invalidate her commitment to female empowerment. For 10 points, name this Haitian–American author of Hunger and Bad Feminist.
Roxane Gay &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153554-)
Note: author and type of work required. One of these works declares that “the balloon of experience is in fact of course tied to the earth, and under that necessity we swing… in the more or less commodious car of the imagination.” The last of these works warns that “Anything that relieves responsible prose of the duty of being… does it the worst of services,” in measured appreciation of the accompanying frontispiece photographs by Alvin Langdon Coburn. One of these works considers how “apertures, of dissimilar shape and size, hang so, all together, over the human scene,” as part of a celebrated metaphor declaring that “the house of (*) fiction has in short not one window, but a million.” The author’s conscience repeatedly pleas for him to “dramatise, dramatise, dramatise!” in several late examples of these works, which R.P. Blackmur edited as The Art of the Novel. These eighteen works were written to accompany each volume of the New York Edition of the author’s corpus. For 10 points, name these essays by a certain author meant to introduce his novels, such as The Portrait of a Lady.
prefaces by Henry James [accept introductions by Henry James until “introduce”; prompt on essays by Henry James until “essays” is read] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153562-)
One of this author’s characters recounts how her cats destroyed her lover’s collection of Jürgen Habermas books after she chose to leave them lying out. One of this author’s protagonists tries to impale a dog using a picnic umbrella at the end of a novel in which she moves to Franchise Farm to serve as an au pair to the wheelchair-bound Martin Madden. A novel by this author ends with the narrator locking eyes with a German peeing into the sea after her son calls her to tell her he accidentally started a fire in London. This author of The (*) Country Life created a character who has a series of encounters with a man whom she refers to only as “my neighbor” after she sits next to him while flying to Athens to teach a writing seminar. That character, a writer named Faye, narrates a trilogy of novels by this author in which she largely just listens to other people tell stories. For 10 points, name this contemporary Canadian–British author of Kudos, Transit, and Outline.
Rachel Cusk &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153588-)
One of this author’s characters recounts how her cats destroyed her lover’s collection of Jürgen Habermas books after she chose to leave them lying out. One of this author’s protagonists tries to impale a dog using a picnic umbrella at the end of a novel in which she moves to Franchise Farm to serve as an au pair to the wheelchair-bound Martin Madden. A novel by this author ends with the narrator locking eyes with a German peeing into the sea after her son calls her to tell her he accidentally started a fire in London. This author of The (*) Country Life created a character who has a series of encounters with a man whom she refers to only as “my neighbor” after she sits next to him while flying to Athens to teach a writing seminar. That character, a writer named Faye, narrates a trilogy of novels by this author in which she largely just listens to other people tell stories. For 10 points, name this contemporary Canadian–British author of Kudos, Transit, and Outline.
Rachel Cusk &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153601-)
The speaker of a poem from this collection transforms into a “great / bear with purple jaws and / shaggy, shabby fur” as a result of “Reality becoming too thorny for” his “epic / personality.” Henry Miller titled his essentially autobiographical study of this collection’s author after the declaration in one of these poems that “Now is the time for assassins.” The speaker watches ocean currents spiral “around the pilings of the pier, / Whose tilted view slams / Into whirling clouds of light” in “Marine,” one of the two free verse poems in this collection, along with (*) “Mouvement.” This collection, which originally bore the subtitle “Colored Plates,” opens with the image of a rabbit “saying his prayer to the rainbow through a spider’s web” in its poem “Après le Deluge.” The “satanique docteur” mentioned in these poems is usually thought to mean Paul Verlaine, who secured a publisher for this collection years after shooting its author in a lovers’ quarrel. For 10 points, name this volume of prose poetry, the final major work by Arthur Rimbaud.
Les Illuminations &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153602-)
In one essay, this author satirically imagined another author going to the archives of the Saturday Evening Post to research the work of Clarence Budington Kelland. This author criticized a certain thinker for building his aesthetic “not on art…but on whether the raw material of art is still visible.” The sounds of the Eddie Cantor show are used to evoke the “childhood of the race” in a work this author favorably compares to You Only Live Once and They Live by Night. This author sarcastically termed “technical competence,” “distinguishable personality,” and “interior meaning” the outer, middle, and inner circles in a critique of Andrew (*) Sarris’ formulation of auteur theory. William Shawn hired this author of “Circles and Squares” after running her 8,000-word vindication of the “violence without sadism” in Arthur Penn’s film Bonnie and Clyde. For 10 points, name this longtime film critic at the New Yorker, whose reviews and essays are collected in books such as I Lost it at the Movies.
Pauline Kael &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153607-)
This character “cannot control his bitterness” when reminded how as a child, he used to “cry at the drop of a hat.” He grumbles about his family’s penny-pinching refusal to keep even a single light on in the hallway at night, after banging his knee while reentering the stage for the final act. This character admits that “Stammering is the native eloquence of us fog people,” in embarrassment upon gushing about belonging to “something greater than my own life, or the Life of Man, to Life itself!” when he was aboard a merchant ship bound for Buenos Aires. This character recites (*) Baudelaire’s prose poem advising: “Be drunken always" and quotes poems by Dowson and Swinburne while playing a lazy game of cards against his father. He hits his brother for wisecracking about Ophelia after their mother appears holding her wedding gown, muttering about joining a convent, in a morphine-induced hallucination. For 10 points, name this self-portrait of Eugene O’Neill, the tubercular younger Tyrone son in Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
Edmund Tyrone [prompt on Tyrone before “Tyrone” is read] &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153622-)
In one essay, this author satirically imagined another author going to the archives of the Saturday Evening Post to research the work of Clarence Budington Kelland. This author criticized a certain thinker for building his aesthetic “not on art…but on whether the raw material of art is still visible.” The sounds of the Eddie Cantor show are used to evoke the “childhood of the race” in a work this author favorably compares to You Only Live Once and They Live by Night. This author sarcastically termed “technical competence,” “distinguishable personality,” and “interior meaning” the outer, middle, and inner circles in a critique of Andrew (*) Sarris’ formulation of auteur theory. William Shawn hired this author of “Circles and Squares” after running her 8,000-word vindication of the “violence without sadism” in Arthur Penn’s film Bonnie and Clyde. For 10 points, name this longtime film critic at the New Yorker, whose reviews and essays are collected in books such as I Lost it at the Movies.
Pauline Kael &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153627-)
This character “cannot control his bitterness” when reminded how as a child, he used to “cry at the drop of a hat.” He grumbles about his family’s penny-pinching refusal to keep even a single light on in the hallway at night, after banging his knee while reentering the stage for the final act. This character admits that “Stammering is the native eloquence of us fog people,” in embarrassment upon gushing about belonging to “something greater than my own life, or the Life of Man, to Life itself!” when he was aboard a merchant ship bound for Buenos Aires. This character recites (*) Baudelaire’s prose poem advising: “Be drunken always" and quotes poems by Dowson and Swinburne while playing a lazy game of cards against his father. He hits his brother for wisecracking about Ophelia after their mother appears holding her wedding gown, muttering about joining a convent, in a morphine-induced hallucination. For 10 points, name this self-portrait of Eugene O’Neill, the tubercular younger Tyrone son in Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
Edmund Tyrone [prompt on Tyrone before “Tyrone” is read] &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153642-)
In a novel by this author, a girl financially strains a school by eating chalk, pencil lead, and other supplies. One of this author’s characters gazes at photographs of his ex-lover mounted on the apartment walls of an opium addict known as “the Pal.” At the start of a novel by this author, a woman resists her lover’s attempts to grab her pearl necklace so that he doesn’t see the wrinkles underneath. A set of dialogues between a Maltese cat and a bulldog was the first book published under the real name of this writer, because her husband (*) Willy attached his own name to her autobiographical set of novels depicting the lesbian dalliances of the schoolgirl Claudine. A young man pines for the much older courtesan Léa in this author’s best-regarded novel, though she is better known for depicting millionaire Gaston’s relationship with a young courtesan in a novel adapted in 1958 by Lerner and Loewe. Chéri and the basis for the musical Gigi were written by—for 10 points—what Frenchwoman who went by a single name?
(Sidonie-Gabrielle) Colette &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153662-)
In a novel by this author, a girl financially strains a school by eating chalk, pencil lead, and other supplies. One of this author’s characters gazes at photographs of his ex-lover mounted on the apartment walls of an opium addict known as “the Pal.” At the start of a novel by this author, a woman resists her lover’s attempts to grab her pearl necklace so that he doesn’t see the wrinkles underneath. A set of dialogues between a Maltese cat and a bulldog was the first book published under the real name of this writer, because her husband (*) Willy attached his own name to her autobiographical set of novels depicting the lesbian dalliances of the schoolgirl Claudine. A young man pines for the much older courtesan Léa in this author’s best-regarded novel, though she is better known for depicting millionaire Gaston’s relationship with a young courtesan in a novel adapted in 1958 by Lerner and Loewe. Chéri and the basis for the musical Gigi were written by—for 10 points—what Frenchwoman who went by a single name?
(Sidonie-Gabrielle) Colette &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153669-)
In a story, this man tries to hold onto an eyeball that keeps “popping and slithering out of his grasp” after he accidentally knocks it out of an old man's eye socket. His character of the “suspect” is compared to the “schlemiel” in an essay that likens his “worried, careworn innocence” to the effrontery of the “little Yid.” A poem subtitled for this man “playing for his friends after dinner,” describes him “laughing a laugh the whole world knows” while “again the heartbeats laugh…the human heartbeats laugh.” Robert (*) Coover wrote a story about this man “in the House of Rue.” Hannah Arendt claimed that despite his non-Jewish heritage, this man epitomized in “artistic form” “the Jewish pariah mentality.” This man titles a poem that describes the “inevitable thumb / That slowly chafes its puckered index toward us,” reassuring the reader that “we can still love the world, who find / a famished kitten on the step.” A Hart Crane poem beginning “We make our meek adjustments” is titled after—for 10 points—what actor, the addressee of Carl Sandburg's “Without the Cane &amp; Derby (For C.C.)”?
Charlie Chaplin [accept “Chaplinesque”] &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153674-)
A work by this author balances between a “diction of innocence” and a “diction of intelligence” as part of its “contest of melodrama and restraint,” according to Last Looks, Last Books by Helen Vendler. The speaker of one poem by this author describes how figures who are “browning, like touched gardenias” have “propped his jaw with a book until it stiffened.” In another poem by this author, the speaker asks the title literary figure to “Step off seven leagues, like those distances / That revolve in Crivelli, untouchable.” The death of Percy Key at a hospice near the beach inspired this author to write a poem that opens by describing the sea as a “great (*) abeyance.” The speaker of a poem by this author sees a group of “black phones on hooks / Glittering / Glittering and digesting / Voicelessness” in a city described as a “morgue between Paris and Rome.” That work by this author of “Berck-Plage” and “Gulliver” opens by declaring, “Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children.” For 10 points, name this author, whose poem “The Munich Mannequins” appears in her posthumous collection Ariel.
Sylvia Plath &lt;Tiebreaker&gt;
9

153675-)
One newspaper sold out an issue in which it devoted its editorial section to a poem encouraging this process by the non-indie musician M. Ward that connects it to a lack of need to “skin ‘em back at him.” The introduction to one book attributed the rise of this process to a growing “spirit to seize” within a particular group. Emmett J. Scott wrote a contemporary study of this process that highlighted Robert S. (*)Abbott’s selection of May 15th as its starting date. A depiction of the results of this process shows three girls writing the numbers 2, 3, and 4 progressively higher up on a chalkboard. A 2010 book analyzes this process through the biographies of George Swanson Starling and Ida Mae Gladney. That work is Isabel Wilkerson’s The Warmth of Other Suns. Many letters from successful participants in this process were published in the Chicago Defender, which framed neighborhoods such as “The Stroll” and Bronzeville as desirable places to live. For 10 points, Jacob Lawrence created a series of artworks depicting what twentieth-century movement of African-Americans to the North?
the Great Migration [accept the First Great Migration or the Second Great Migration; also accept the Great Northern Drive, which was the name of the event promoted by the Defender] (The book mentioned is Alain Locke’s The New Negro.)
9

153676-)
This tossup cannot be used for a game involving the Mike Etzkorn, Adam Fine, Mike Sorice, Stephen Liu team In an historically-excluded stanza from this poem, a chorus of “bereaved Hecubas who’ve lost their wits” proclaims that “We are here, on the far side of hell.” Following a “lyrical digression” by the wind, this poem asks, “Won’t you speak to me again, repeat / the word that causes death’s defeat / and solves the riddle of my life?” This work’s third dedication, subtitled “Le jour des rois,” states that “Bach’s Chaconne” will summon a man with whom the speaker will “trouble the Twentieth Century.” As in the poet’s cycle (*) Sweetbriar in Blossom, this poem uses blue cigar smoke to evoke that “guest from the future,” Isaiah Berlin. This work’s first section takes place in a “white hall of mirrors,” where the speaker meets “shades from the year 1913.” At this work’s end, the speaker notes how “with dry downcast eyes / Russia went before me to the east.” This poem, partly set at the Fontanka House in Leningrad, was influenced by that city’s suffering under siege. For 10 points, name this long poem by the author of Requiem, Anna Akhmatova.
Poem Without a Hero &lt;Tiebreaker&gt;
9

153690-)
A work by this author balances between a “diction of innocence” and a “diction of intelligence” as part of its “contest of melodrama and restraint,” according to Last Looks, Last Books by Helen Vendler. The speaker of one poem by this author describes how figures who are “browning, like touched gardenias” have “propped his jaw with a book until it stiffened.” In another poem by this author, the speaker asks the title literary figure to “Step off seven leagues, like those distances / That revolve in Crivelli, untouchable.” The death of Percy Key at a hospice near the beach inspired this author to write a poem that opens by describing the sea as a “great (*) abeyance.” The speaker of a poem by this author sees a group of “black phones on hooks / Glittering / Glittering and digesting / Voicelessness” in a city described as a “morgue between Paris and Rome.” That work by this author of “Berck-Plage” and “Gulliver” opens by declaring, “Perfection is terrible, it cannot have children.” For 10 points, name this author, whose poem “The Munich Mannequins” appears in her posthumous collection Ariel.
Sylvia Plath &lt;Tiebreaker&gt;
9

153691-)
One newspaper sold out an issue in which it devoted its editorial section to a poem encouraging this process by the non-indie musician M. Ward that connects it to a lack of need to “skin ‘em back at him.” The introduction to one book attributed the rise of this process to a growing “spirit to seize” within a particular group. Emmett J. Scott wrote a contemporary study of this process that highlighted Robert S. (*)Abbott’s selection of May 15th as its starting date. A depiction of the results of this process shows three girls writing the numbers 2, 3, and 4 progressively higher up on a chalkboard. A 2010 book analyzes this process through the biographies of George Swanson Starling and Ida Mae Gladney. That work is Isabel Wilkerson’s The Warmth of Other Suns. Many letters from successful participants in this process were published in the Chicago Defender, which framed neighborhoods such as “The Stroll” and Bronzeville as desirable places to live. For 10 points, Jacob Lawrence created a series of artworks depicting what twentieth-century movement of African-Americans to the North?
the Great Migration [accept the First Great Migration or the Second Great Migration; also accept the Great Northern Drive, which was the name of the event promoted by the Defender] (The book mentioned is Alain Locke’s The New Negro.)
9

153692-)
This tossup cannot be used for a game involving the Mike Etzkorn, Adam Fine, Mike Sorice, Stephen Liu team In an historically-excluded stanza from this poem, a chorus of “bereaved Hecubas who’ve lost their wits” proclaims that “We are here, on the far side of hell.” Following a “lyrical digression” by the wind, this poem asks, “Won’t you speak to me again, repeat / the word that causes death’s defeat / and solves the riddle of my life?” This work’s third dedication, subtitled “Le jour des rois,” states that “Bach’s Chaconne” will summon a man with whom the speaker will “trouble the Twentieth Century.” As in the poet’s cycle (*) Sweetbriar in Blossom, this poem uses blue cigar smoke to evoke that “guest from the future,” Isaiah Berlin. This work’s first section takes place in a “white hall of mirrors,” where the speaker meets “shades from the year 1913.” At this work’s end, the speaker notes how “with dry downcast eyes / Russia went before me to the east.” This poem, partly set at the Fontanka House in Leningrad, was influenced by that city’s suffering under siege. For 10 points, name this long poem by the author of Requiem, Anna Akhmatova.
Poem Without a Hero &lt;Tiebreaker&gt;
9

153695-)
A man staying at this location offers to read Pamela to his housemates if they have trouble falling asleep, since "I never yet knew anyone who could not fall asleep with Richardson being read to him.” This "not sane" building “seemed somehow to have formed itself, flying together into its own powerful pattern," and one character claims, “It watches every move you make.” While travelling to this location, the protagonist warns a little girl: “Don't do it... insist on your cup of stars.” Messages mysteriously (*) appear in this building telling a character “COME HOME,” and a book set at this location notes that "whatever walked there, walked alone. A woman in this house who cries, “God! Whose hand was I holding?” later wonders, “Why am I doing this? Why don't they stop me?” right before committing suicide. For 10 points, name this estate where Eleanor Vance dies after ramming her car into a tree, the “haunting” of which titles a novel by Shirley Jackson.
Hill House &lt;Tiebreaker&gt;
9

153701-)
In her book Adam, Eve, and the Serpent, this scholar traced how the equation of sex with sin and the belief in the inferiority of women shifted from fringe to mainstream views under the teachings of Augustine. For 10 points each: [10] Name this Princeton religious historian best known for her 1979 introduction to the manuscripts unearthed at the Nag Hammadi library, titled The Gnostic Gospels.
thunder &lt;Religion&gt;
9

153703-)
This poet described summer as the season where “first Sol doth in crabbed Cancer shine” in one of her four quaternions. In one poem, this poet “wakened was with thundering noise and piteous shrieks of dreadful voice” and in another she calls her work “thou ill formed offspring of my feeble brain.” This author of (*) “The Author to Her Book” described her marriage by saying “if ever two were one, then surely we” in “To My Dear and Loving Husband.” For 10 points, name this colonial Puritan poet who wrote “Verses Upon the Burning of Our House” and The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet
3

153734-)
One character in the novel introduces himself as William Thompson from Ohio, a person stopping on his way to visit his uncle. In this novel, two families who detest each other attend church together and hold their rifles between their knees as the minister preaches about brotherly love. Those families are the (*) Shepherdsons and the Grangerfords. The protagonist of this novel fakes his death by killing a pig in order to escape his father, Pap. In this novel the Royal Nonesuch is performed by the Duke and the Dauphin. For ten points, name this Mark Twain novel about the title character’s journey down the Mississippi river with a slave named Jim.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn
3

153757-)
The name of this place comes from two words meaning “split land.” In the north of this place, the Tallahatchie river runs east to west. This place is the setting of a work about a woman who falls in love with a northern laborer and keeps his decaying body in her bed after his death. A map of this place appears in a novel narrated by (*) Rosa Coldfield. A character from this place commits suicide after his sister Caddy becomes pregnant. That character is Quentin Compson. For ten points, name this place based on Lafayette County, Mississippi that is the primary setting for all but four novels by William Faulkner.
Yoknapatawpha County [yoke-nuh-pah-taw-fa] (be generous with acceptable pronunciation)
3

153771-)
In one novel set in this place, a character is attacked by a parrot after going into a strip club looking for the refined lady reading Boethius. That character’s name is Ignatius Reilly. This place is the setting of Scarlett O’Hara’s honeymoon in Gone with the Wind. In another novel set here, the protagonist falls in love with (*) Robert Lebrun. A play set in this city features a widowed southern belle who goes to live with her sister and her sister’s husband after losing the family home. For ten points, name this city, the setting of A Confederacy of Dunces, The Awakening, and A Streetcar Named Desire.
New Orleans (prompt on “Louisiana”)
3

153789-)
The title poem in a collection by this author is about a man who is exiled until war breaks out, when he returns to fight. That poem is called “Timoleon.” A novel written by this man describes life on the island of Nuku Hiva, and is titled (*) Typee. A short story by this man includes a character who works very hard, but then refuses to do so again, repeatedly saying “I would prefer not to.” That story appears in this author’s collection The Piazza Tales. For ten points, name this author of works such as “Bartleby the Scrivener,” Billy Budd, and a story about a great white whale titled Moby Dick.
Herman Melville
3

153819-)
A poem about the founder of this organization says that he “led boldly with the big bass drum” and repeats the line “are you washed in the blood of the lamb?” In addition to that poem by Vachel Lindsay about its founder entering into Heaven, another work about a member of this organization sees her mother Lady Britomart reconnect with her estranged husband, the munitions manufacturer Andrew (*) Undershaft, who then tries to “buy” this organization by giving a large donation. For 10 points, name this organization to which General William Booth and Major Barbara belonged, a religious group with ranks like the military.
Salvation Army
3

153825-)
In this novel, a character goes to Bettsbridge to see a new doctor. The climactic event of this novel is inspired by an anecdote about Ned Hale and Ruth Varnum. A girl in this novel with a cherry-colored scarf refuses the offer of a ride from a young man named Denis Eady. In this novel, a cat shatters (*) Zenobia’s favorite pickle dish, but the main character manages to piece it back together. This novel’s story within a story ends with the title character and his lover attempting suicide by running a sled into an elm tree. For ten points, name this novel about the title character’s affair with Mattie Silver, by Edith Wharton.
Ethan Frome
3

153831-)
One poem by this poet states, “One must have a mind of winter to regard the frost and the boughs.” That poem is “The Snow Man.” This poet once said that the title object of another poem “was gray and bare,” and after he had placed that object in Tennessee, this poet said that “It took (*) dominion everywhere.” Another poem by this man states that “It was evening all afternoon. It was snowing.” For ten points, name this poet who wrote “The Anecdote of the Jar” and “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.”
Wallace Stevens
3

153837-)
One of this author’s works begins in the town Plassans with the matriarch of the title family, Adelaide Fouque. The youngest branch of the family is the Mourets, the middle class people and the children of Ursule Macquart. The high born branch of the family is the Rougons, who are the focus of his first and last books of the series, La Fortune des Rougon and Le Docteur Pascal. This practitioner of (*) naturalism also wrote a newspaper article criticizing the French government’s handling of treason accusations against Jewish artillery officer Alfred Dreyfus. For ten points, name this author of J’accuse.
Émile Zola
3

153849-)
In a play by this man, an architect named Martin Gray falls in love with a goat named Sylvia. Another play by this man centers around an aging couple who has a conversation with Leslie and Sarah, two human sized lizards, about their children, evolution, and fidelity. In this playwright’s first play, a wealthy publishing executive is interrogated by another man. In that play, Jerry (*) impales himself with the knife he pulled on Peter. In this playwright’s most famous play, George and Martha play “get the guest” and talk about their imaginary son. For ten points, name this playwright of Seascape, The Zoo Story, and Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee III
3

153882-)
In this novel, after the protagonist talks back to her husband for the first time, she is ignored and asked for a checkerboard. Before a hurricane in this novel, Native Americans leave the Everglades for Palm Beach. In this novel, the protagonist’s grandmother says that people like the protagonists are “the mules of the world.” After the death of her (*) second husband, the protagonist rips off her head-rag, freeing her imprisoned hair after the death of Joe Starks. At the end of this novel, the protagonist shoots her lover Tea Cake after he gets rabies. For ten points, name this novel about Janie Crawford, written by Zora Neale Hurston.
Their Eyes were Watching God
3

153897-)
In a short story by this author, Callisto thinks about the increasing disorder of the American consumerist society, equating it to the title concept “Entropy.” Another short story by this author is about two English spies named Porpentine and Goodfellow. Both of these stories appear in this author’s collection Slow Learner. In a novel by this author, a (*) muted post horn continually follows the protagonist, Oedipa Maas. Another novel by this author begins with “A screaming comes across the sky” and is possibly titled for the trajectory of a V-2 rocket. For ten points, name this author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity’s Rainbow.
Thomas Pynchon Jr
3

153910-)
This character says that a certain group of people’s members are “still in their childhood.” In another work, this character says that he doesn’t know how to build a snowman. This character stays outside of a jail all night in order to protect another character. He also makes his children read to (*) Mrs. Dubose until she comes off a morphine addiction. This lawyer fights on behalf of Tom Robinson against Bob Ewell, pointing out that the prosecution has produced no medical evidence of the crime. For ten points, name this character who appears in Harper Lee’s To Kill a Mockingbird, the father of Scout Finch.
Atticus Finch (accept Atticus, prompt on “Finch”) Bonuses
3

153921-)
This character knows that the statement “If You Break the Law, You Can’t Win!” is false because a man can afford to pay off the prosecutors. This character kills a rat with a skillet after it appears in the house this character shares with Vera and Buddy. After a character goes missing, this character writes a ransom note signed (*) “Red” and demands $10,000. This character decapitates a corpse in order to stuff it into the furnace. That body was that of Mary Dalton, who this character had accidentally smothered with a pillow. For ten points, name this character, the protagonist of Richard Wright’s Native Son.
Bigger Thomas (prompt on partial answer)
3

153934-)
One poem by this author asks the title object, “Why preyest thou thus upon the poet’s heart?” Another poem by this author is about the inevitability of death, shown in a play performed by “mimes, in the form of god on high.” That poem is called “The Conqueror Worm” and the short story is called “Ligeia.” Another short story by this author includes a tarn that glows. That story begins with a (*) crack in the title residence, which eventually breaks open and kills the two residents of the house. For ten points, name this poet and author of “Fall of the House of Usher” and “The Raven.”
Edgar Allan Poe
3

153958-)
In one work in this series, a man that is accused of stealing a bucket of nails drowns in order to avoid confessing to a crime he didn’t commit. In another work in this series, a man wants to buy Sutter’s land from the funds that the family would get from selling the title object, while his sister (*) Berenice Charles wants to keep the title object because of the carved faces of their family. In a work in this series, a man becomes the first black garbage truck driver in town. That play is about Troy Maxson. For ten points, name this series of works by August Wilson that all take place in the title Pennsylvanian city.
The Pittsburgh Cycle
3

153974-)
The title of a short story by this author comes from a phrase appearing on the edges of maps in the “viking age.” In that story, people venture to a paradise-like planet but report it empty. Another story by this author describes the burned shadows of people who died in a nuclear explosion; that story is “There Will Come Soft Rains.” That story appears in this author’s anthology (*) The Martian Chronicles. Another novel by this author includes a protagonist who memorizes parts of Ecclesiastes after his copy of the Bible was burned. For ten points, name this author of Something Wicked this Way Comes, Dandelion Wine, and Fahrenheit 451.
Ray Bradbury
3

154002-)
A book by this author ends with the Wandering Jew informing the narrator that a door in his museum was made from the gate of ivory that Aeneas once passed through in Hades. That book by this writer ends with the story "The Virtuoso's Collection," and it includes a story in which Annie opens an ebony box and her infant child crushes Owen Warland's mechanical butterfly. Another of his stories ends by noting that "no hopeful verse" was carved on the (*) tombstone of the title character's grave. This author included "The Artist of the Beautiful" in a collection named for his home, Mosses from an Old Manse, which also features a story set in Salem where the title character sees a procession in a forest. For 10 points, name this author of "Young Goodman Brown."
Nathaniel Hawthorne &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154022-)
A play that won the Pulitzer Prize at the beginning of this decade depicts the reunion of the Magrath Sisters after Babe shot her husband; that play is Beth Henley's Crimes of the Heart. A play set during this decade is the subject of Isaac Butler's and Dan Kois's "oral history" The World Only Spins Forward. In that play set during this decade, characters named Oceania, Asiatica, Europa, and Antarctica meet in the Council Room of the Continental (*) Principalities. That play set during this decade is divided into the two parts "Millennium Approaches" and "Perestroika," and opens with the revelation that Prior Walter has an incurable disease. For 10 points, name this decade that provides the setting for Tony Kushner's Angels in America, which focuses on the AIDS epidemic.
1980s &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154037-)
A character in this play accuses another man of just hitting "younger men… and children… women… birds." Another character in this play tells the story of a fifteen-year old boy who accidentally killed his mother with a shotgun, and who caused much laughter by ordering "bergin and water." In another story about that boy in this play, he was taken to the hospital after he crashed his car while (*) swerving to avoid a porcupine in the road. In this play, a "hysterical pregnancy" supposedly caused Nick to marry his wife. During the "Walpurgisnacht" act of this play, George suggests that a game of "Get the Guests" be played to humiliate Martha and Honey. For 10 points, name this domestic drama by Edward Albee.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf? &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154039-)
One of the first stars in this profession collaborated on some projects with Reform Club member and architect Charles Barry and was named Alexis Soyer. Massimo Bottura wrote a 2011 book titled for people in this profession, some of whom run businesses called trattoria. These people often wear a starched hat called a toque blanche (toke BLONSH). In the US, the (*) James Beard foundation gives out awards to people in this profession. In 2012, one of these people named Bernard Loiseau killed himself amidst rumors that he would be downgraded from three to two Michelin stars. Auguste Escoffier's hierarchy of this profession puts their sous (soo) variety second in command. For 10 points, an apron is usually worn by members of what food preparation profession?
chefs [or cooks; or restaurateurs; or chef de cuisine; or kitchen head; or executive chef; or chef manager; or master chef; or head chef; accept Never Trust a Skinny Italian Chef] &lt;Jose, Mixed/Other/General Knowledge&gt;
5

154056-)
This novel's protagonist uses scrap from a man's old "yellow dress" to make the "Sister's Choice" pattern for her quilt. Another character in this novel moves to Tucson, Arizona after falling in love with the flute player Germaine. A character in this novel demands to be called Mary Agnes and not Squeak after she is raped by a prison warden. This novel ends during a family reunion on July 4th after the protagonist's sister returns from (*) Africa, where she lived with the missionaries Samuel and Corinne. In this novel, "Mister" hides letters that are written by Nettie and addressed to her sister. For 10 points, name this novel in which Celie addresses many of her letters about life in southern Georgia to God, a novel by Alice Walker.
The Color Purple &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154062-)
Years after accidentally killing three villagers serving in this occupation during the war, the protagonist drunkenly wanders the country spending time with these people in Vonnegut's God Bless You, Mr. Rosewater. Men with this job demand a toll from a motorist before trashing his abandoned Model-T, prompting Coalhouse Walker to seize J. P. Morgan's library, in E. L. Doctorow's Ragtime. A character with a different version of this job believes that a car of teenagers killed his (*) 17-year-old neighbor, Clarisse McClellan. Men with that version of this job wear salamander insignias and use the Mechanical Hound in a novel in which their leader, Captain Beatty, is incinerated by the protagonist. For 10 points, Guy Montag has what job that, in Ray Bradbury's Fahrenheit 451, involves burning books?
firemen [or volunteer fire fighters; prompt on answers involving book burning] &lt;Brownstein, Literature - American&gt;
5

154078-)
This story describes a question that "the more we reflect upon," the "harder it is to answer," since it involves a study of the "devious mazes of passion" through the "human heart." A sequel to this story centers on a "deputation of five strangers" who try to learn this story's outcome by answering a riddle about "The Discourager of Hesitancy." An arena where a woman keeps her right arm on a "cushioned parapet" is described in this story's setting, which is a (*) "semi-barbaric" kingdom. The humorist Frank Stockton wrote this story, which concludes with a king's daughter making a decision about a man's fate after "anguished deliberation." For 10 points, name this story in which it is never revealed whether a youth is saved or eaten by the title animal.
"The Lady or the Tiger?" &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;  NSC 2018 - Round 04 - Bonuses
5

154094-)
A volume of poetry titled for this place includes a poem whose speaker sees a "crowd of Hungarians" with a "keg of beer and an accordion" while trying to discover "happiness." A poem titled for this place compares it to "the terrible burden of destiny" that laughs "as a young man laughs," and claims that this place is "brutal" since the speaker has seen the "marks of wanton hunger" on the "faces of women and children" in this place. A (*) 1916 collection of poetry titled after this city laid out a vision of "American realism" later developed in the collections Cornhuskers and Smoke and Steel; in that book, this city is called a "tool maker," "stacker of wheat," and "hog butcher of the world." For 10 points, name this "City of the Big Shoulders" described in a Carl Sandburg poem.
Chicago [accept Chicago Poems] &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154111-)
This work's epigraph mention "clouds" that pass through "gay castles" that are "forever flushing round a summer sky," and is taken from James Thomson's Castle of Indolence. This story is set in a town where "stars shoot and meteors glare oftener across the valley" than elsewhere, and which received its name from housewives whose husbands lingered about the village tavern on market days. An "old Indian chief" and his "powwows" may have (*) bewitched the setting of this story, which is near the river Tappan Zee. A "Hessian trooper" who was killed during a "nameless battle during the Revolutionary war" inhabits Tarry Town's glen in, for 10 points, what Washington Irving story centering on a legend about a headless horseman?
"The Legend of Sleepy Hollow" &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154138-)
In a deleted scene, this woman is described as playing "shovelboard" with the "Deputy Governor" every night, and having a face that "people ride a hundred miles to see." This woman describes how "Indians smashed" her "dear parents' head on a pillow" in an early scene. In a section called "Echoes Down the Corridor," it is revealed that this woman turned up as a prostitute after she steals 31 pounds from her uncle and flees on a ship with (*) Mercy Lewis. This woman claims that her former master's wife made a "poppet" and put a pin in it; earlier she accused the slave Tituba of making her drink blood in a forest. For 10 points, name this character who accuses John Proctor's wife Elizabeth of witchcraft in the play The Crucible.
Abigail Williams [or Abby Williams; accept any underlined name] &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154161-)
In the first chapter of Patriotic Gore, Edmund Wilson points out that this character's "harsh humanity" is characteristic of his "native New England." In a "Key" to the novel in which this character appears, the author confesses "such depravity" could not exist in one man as that exhibited by this character. This character becomes enraged when he sees the title character's "devilish" silver dollar entwined by long fake hair. Cassy and Emmeline (*) escape from this man with the protagonist's help, leading this man to have his henchmen Sambo and Quimbo beat the protagonist to death. The title character is sold to this man after the death of Eva St. Clair and her father. For 10 points, name this vicious slave owner from Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Simon Legree [accept either underlined name] &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154170-)
In a 1969 play, this character teaches a suspected arsonist named Bailey to spell his own name, and convinces the attorney Sam Staples to let Bailey have a speedy trial. That play depicts this author's older brother John, who dies after he cuts himself shaving, and his inability to marry Ellen Sewell due to his own radical philosophy. An 1849 work by this writer calls "all voting a sort of gaming" and defines a "peaceable (*) revolution" as one in which "thousands" do not pay "their tax-bills." A play by Lee and Lawrence depicts the "night" this man "spent in jail," an incident which inspired this author to write "that government is best which governs least." For 10 points, name this Transcendentalist author of the essay "Civil Disobedience."
Henry David Thoreau [accept The Night Thoreau Spent in Jail] &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154201-)
Later editions of a poem by this author omit the question "Now am I free to be poetical?" that followed lines in which the sun causes "Such heaps of broken glass… You'd think the inner dome of heaven had fallen." This poet envisioned a place "unstoried, artless, unenhanced, / Such as she was, such as she would become" in a poem beginning "The land was ours before we were the land's." In a poem by this author, a boy "too far from (*) town to learn baseball" rides the title objects, of which the speaker concludes "One could do worse than be a swinger of" them. This poet wrote "But I have promises to keep, / And miles to go before I sleep" in a poem beginning "Whose woods these are I think I know." For 10 points, name this poet of "Birches" and "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."
Robert Frost &lt;Brownstein, Literature - American&gt;
5

154206-)
This woman complains that her "proportioned, spiritless poems" are published "away in brutish London, for a hollow crown" in a 52-stanza sequence that tells her "Simon will listen while you read a song." This author's major work contains a section discussing the "four monarchies," and a poem that begins by noting "all may judge" the "errors" of the title "ill-formed (*) offspring of my feeble brain." This poet, the subject of an "Homage" by John Berryman, wrote "If ever two were one, then surely we" in a poem addressed to her "dear and loving husband." For 10 points, name this 17th-century poet who wrote "Verses upon the Burning of our House" and the book The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154222-)
A fictional "miracle" paint advertised as having been developed after this conflict is Sateen Dura Luxe, which a veteran of this war uses to create abstract expressionist paintings. A novel about this war opens with its author reading Theodore Roethke's "The Waking" on a plane. A Rabo Karabekian painting inspired by this conflict is kept locked-up in a potato-barn in the novel Bluebeard. In a novel partly set during this conflict, the theft of a teapot prompts the (*) execution of the soldier Edgar Derby, and Tralfamadorian aliens abduct an optometrist who becomes "unstuck in time," Billy Pilgrim. For 10 points, name this war depicted in Slaughterhouse-Five, whose author Kurt Vonnegut during the firebombing of Dresden.
World War II [or WW2] &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154240-)
A character with this name hoists his shoulders up "like a Frenchman" while unsuccessfully attempting to move. A character with this name owns a fishing rod called Killall that makes fish jump into his pockets. A character with this name loses a contest in a mining camp because a stranger pours quail shot into his stomach. In one work, this man spends all night addressing people such as Simon Girty, King Philip, and Judge Hathorne after they're assembled by "the (*) stranger." This is the name of the frog owned by Jim Smiley in "The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County." In another short story, this man defends fellow New Hampshirite Jabez (JAY-bezz) Stone at a trial. For 10 points, name this historical lawyer who meets the Devil in a short story by Stephen Vincent Benet.
Daniel Webster [or Dan'l Webster] &lt;Grames, Literature - American&gt;
5

154262-)
Tobias Wolff recalled buying a puppy that was going to be cooked for dinner during this conflict in his memoir In Pharaoh's Army. Michael Herr's experiences as a war correspondent during this conflict were turned into the book Dispatches. In one book, Norman Bowker imagines telling his father why he never won a Silver Star in this war. Paul Berlin's squad chases after the title character, who has decided to leave this war and walk to Paris, in the novel (*) Going After Cacciato. During this war, the body of Rat Kiley's friend Curt Lemon is washed out of a tree, and Ted Lavender's death prompts Lieutenant Jimmy Cross to burn letters from Martha. For 10 points, name this conflict, the setting of The Things They Carried by Tim O'Brien.
Vietnam War [prompt on Nam] &lt;Kothari, Literature - American&gt;
5

154271-)
While performing this task, the title character hears a peer yelling "ding-dong-dong" while pretending to be a steamship. A character trades "a key that wouldn't unlock anything" and other proceeds from this activity for Sunday School tickets to redeem a Doré Bible. The character who performs this task unsuccessfully tries to swap exchanging water with Jim but "Ole missis" doesn't let him. Ben Rogers is convinced to perform this task rather than go (*) swimming because boys don't get a chance to do it every day. The author remarks "Play consists of whatever a body is not obliged to do" when considering this task done on a structure thirty yards long and nine feet tall. For 10 points, Aunt Polly unsuccessfully assigns Tom Sawyer to perform what household chore?
Tom Sawyer painting Aunt Polly's fence [or Tom Sawyer whitewashing Aunt Polly's fence; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Bentley, Literature - American&gt;
5

154308-)
One poem by this author suggests "when skies are hanged and oceans drowned, / the single secret will still be man." This author's collection 1 × 1 (one times one) includes a poem exhorting "pity poor flesh and trees, poor stars and stones, but never this fine specimen of hypermagical ultraomnipotence." This author wrote "there's a hell of a good universe next door; let's go" in a poem that calls (*) "manunkind" (man-unkind) a "busy monster." He asked "how do you like your blue-eyed boy, / Mister Death" in a poem that begins "Buffalo Bill's / defunct." One of his poems parenthetically declares that "noone stooped to kiss his face" and repeats the phrase "sun moon stars rain." For 10 points, name this author of "anyone lived in a pretty how town," known for his unusual capitalization.
E. E. Cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings] &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154310-)
A love interest of this character who first comes to town on a contract for paving sidewalks eventually tells her "he was not a marrying man." The men in the town attend this character's funeral "through a sort of respectful affection for a fallen monument." She once bought a complete silver toilet set that was engraved with the letters H. B. and, in her forties, taught lessons in china-painting. After her father passes away, this woman is exempted from taxes by Colonel (*) Sartoris, although a city council later sends a crew equipped with lime to secretly de-stench her house in the night. After the death of this recluse, the body of her one-time lover Homer Barron is found in her house. For 10 points, William Faulkner wrote a short story titled for "a rose for" what character?
Emily Grierson [or Emily Grierson; or Miss Emily; or "A Rose for Emily"] &lt;Bentley, Literature - American&gt;
5

154328-)
One of these characters rumples bedclothes in the room of a professor who blows a whistle found next to a plus-shaped inscription composed of the syllables "fur fla bis fle" in the story "Oh, Whistle, and I'll Come to You, My Lad," by medievalist M. R. James. The Otis twins torment one of these characters with pea shooters and melted butter in an Oscar Wilde story set at Canterville Chase. One of these characters accidentally kills Charles Condomine's new wife Ruth in a play by (*) Noël Coward. A governess repeatedly sees one of these characters on the lake at Bly, and has visions of two of these characters, Peter Quint and Miss Jessel, haunting Miles and Flora. For 10 points, name these supernatural beings that include the villains of Henry James's "The Turn of the Screw."
ghosts [or spirits; or phantoms; or specters; prompt on dead people] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154332-)
Because she is "too busy feeling grief," the protagonist of this novel wears her overalls while burying her husband, whom she calls "the son of Evening Sun." The critic Henry Louis Gates praised a passage in this novel in which the protagonist's sexual blossoming is compared to a "thousand sister calyxes arching" of a pear tree. This novel's protagonist is raised by her grandmother Nanny after she was abandoned by her (*) mother Leafy. In this novel, the main character is put on trial for shooting her husband after he becomes infected with rabies during a hurricane. Men named Logan Killicks and Tea Cake are husbands of Janie Crawford, the protagonist of, for 10 points, what novel by Zora Neale Hurston?
Their Eyes Were Watching God &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154356-)
A poem by this author suggests that humanity learned to "conform the order of their lives" by meditating in "groves," which are called "God's first temples." This author of "A Forest Hymn" wrote a poem whose imagery includes "where the rocking billows rise and sink / on the chafed ocean side." A poem by this writer speaks of God as a power who "from zone to zone," "guides through the boundless sky" the addressee's "certain (*) flight." That poem by him asks the title bird, "whither… dost thou pursue thy solitary way?" in its first stanza. Another poem by this writer uses the images of "the innumerable caravan, who moves to that mysterious realm" and the "quarry-slave at night" to describe Death. For 10 points, name this early-American poet who wrote "To a Waterfowl" and "Thanatopsis."
William Cullen Bryant &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154382-)
A city in this country is described as having "orbs of liquid grey" for eyes and an "immortal soul" in a travelogue named this country's "Hours." A party in this country is where Kate Croy tells Merton Densher to marry Milly Theale for her inheritance in the novel The Wings of the Dove. During a funeral in this country, a man remarks "I have lived too long in foreign parts" after learning that the title character intended not to marry one of its inhabitants. Mrs. (*) Walker disapproves of a novella's title character for socializing with this country's men; that woman has a final encounter with Frederick Winterbourne in this country before dying of "fever" in its capital. For 10 points, name this country in which Daisy Miller dies from malaria after strolling around the Coliseum.
Italy [or Italia; or Italian Republic; or Repubblica Italiana] &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154387-)
An essay by this man glibly states that there are "roughly 37" ways which David Lynch's Lost Highway can be interpreted. This author attributed the "wonderfully and oddly hollow" prose of contemporary writers to their tendency to watch television in his essay "E Unibus Pluram." He recounts his despair while on board a ship called the Zenith in an essay about a week-long cruise. This author of the essay collection A (*) Supposedly Fun Thing I'll Never Do Again wrote a novel taking place in the "Year of the Depend Adult Undergarment," and which depicts The Wheelchair Assassins' attempts to acquire a film that produces boundless happiness for those who view it. For 10 points, name this author of the massive novel Infinite Jest.
David Foster Wallace &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154405-)
One story by this author takes place on August 4, which is Mr. Featherstone's birthday and the anniversary of Tilita's marriage. An illiterate man behind a desk declares that the presidential election was won by "a man with guts" named Deutscher, who beat "that fool weakling Keith," at the end of a story by this author. A neglected dog dies in the living room and a stove frantically makes breakfast as a computer-run house burns down in a story by this author titled for a (*) Sara Teasdale poem. Eckels steps on a butterfly and accidentally changes the future when he goes back in time to shoot a T-rex in this author's story "A Sound of Thunder." For 10 points, name this author of "There Will Come Soft Rains," which appears in his collection The Martian Chronicles.
Ray Bradbury &lt;Grames, Literature - American&gt;
5

154424-)
This character owns a "big black valise that looked like the head of a hippopotamus" into which she places a cat. This character wears white gloves and a navy blue dress so that if she dies, people will know she was a lady. She tells a story about receiving watermelons with the initials E.A.T. carved into them from her suitor Mr. Edgar Atkins Teagarden. This character, who hears a story's title (*) phrase at Red Sammy's Famous Barbecue, realizes that a plantation from her memory was really in Tennessee right before her son Bailey gets into a car accident. Shortly thereafter, this woman encounters a criminal known as The Misfit. For 10 points, identify this elderly character from Flannery O'Connor's "A Good Man Is Hard to Find" who is named only for her familial role.
the grandmother &lt;Bentley, Literature - American&gt;
5

154446-)
This character converses with Malaciah, a man nicknamed "Old Leather-Face," while in a drugstore in his hometown of Mason City. This character originally appeared in the author's verse play Proud Flesh, where he was named after Edmund Spenser's "Talos." This character is able to overcome Dolph Pillsbury's influence after three children die in a fire escape during a fire drill. The narrator of the novel frequently refers to this character as "The (*) Boss," and is tasked by this character with finding information to incriminate Judge Irwin. This character, who has an affair with his assistant Sadie Burke, is assassinated by the physician Adam Stanton. For 10 points, what governor from the novel All the King's Men was modeled on Huey Long?
Willie Stark [accept either] &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154453-)
A character created by this author refuses to continue playing the piano after a dismal performance of Robert Schumann's "Pleading Child" that only her deaf teacher enjoys in the story "Two Kinds." Another of this author's characters concludes that fate is shaped "half by expectation, half by inattention" and draws parallels between her dissolving marriage to Ted Jordan and an incident in her childhood when her four-year-old brother drowned. "Twenty-Six Malignant Gates," the second section of a novel by this author, opens with a story about the (*) chess prodigy Waverly Jong, whose childhood rival Jing-Mei is the daughter of Suyuan Woo, the founder of a group of women who meet to play mahjong (MAH-zhong). For 10 points, name this Chinese-American author of The Joy Luck Club.
Amy Tan &lt;Carson, Literature - World&gt;
5

154457-)
The title object of this short story is said to be like "a horse leaping over a high fence." A character in this short story says that for luck he wants to punch a man who keeps swinging his coat over his head. Characters in this short story repeat the line "strange they don't see us" when looking at abandoned houses. When characters in this short story think of death, the line "why was I allowed to come this far and see (*) sand and trees" is repeated. The correspondent briefly gets caught in a current, but makes it to shore with the cook and the captain after escaping this story's title vessel. For 10 points, name this Stephen Crane story in which four men are lost at sea in the title vessel.
"The Open Boat" &lt;Grames, Literature - American&gt;
5

154490-)
Chapter 15 of this novel largely centers on a dinner party attended by guests called "Lemon Tarts" and "social X-Rays," and who listen to a speech on Poe's "The Masque of Red Death" delivered by the gay poet Aubrey Buffing. A woman in this novel flees to Italy to escape public life and later marries the painter Filippo Chirazzi. "Honest Abe" Weiss pursues the "Great White Defendant" in this novel, which concludes with a fictional newspaper article reporting that the (*) journalist Peter Fallow won a Pulitzer Prize for his articles about the hit-and-run death of the black youth Henry Lamb. The bonds trader Sherman McCoy is charged with vehicular manslaughter in, for 10 points, what satire by Tom Wolfe, which is titled for a type of conflagration?
The Bonfire of the Vanities &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

154507-)
This creature’s “gift” titles Erica Wagner’s book on the biographical background of a poet’s final collection. A poem about this animal describes “Prouty / wafting you to the ballroom of broken glass / on bleeding feet” and tells the addressee “as you flew / they jammed all your wavelengths.” That poem, partially titled for this animal, closes with the image of an “exploded dawn / in your fist— / that Monday” and begins “your moon was full of women.” William Davis argued that a second poem titled for this creature actually references “God’s lioness” rather than a Shakespearean character. That poem titled for this creature has a speaker who tells “white / Godiva” that “I unpeel” before stating that “the child’s cry / melts in the wall.” A poem from Birthday Letters is about a “Night-Ride” on this animal, who also titles a poem in which the speaker flies into “the red / eye, the cauldron of morning.” “Daddy” and “Lady Lazarus” are poems in a collection titled after, for 10 points, what horse owned by Sylvia Plath?
Ariel [accept “Night Ride on Ariel”; prompt on “Sylvia Plath’s horse”]
8

154534-)
Description acceptable. A passage in this section notes how, under moonlight, a familiar room can become “neutral territory, somewhere between the real world and fairy-land, where the Actual and the Imaginary may meet.” This section describes a fierce sculpture of an eagle carrying thunderbolts and arrows that hangs over a doorway. A “patriarchal personage” who spends his time recalling “good dinners” and a taciturn former general are among the group of “good old gentlemen” profiled in this section. The end of this section uses the metaphor of decapitation for the firing of the narrator after a presidential election. In this section, which is followed by a short chapter about a rosebush outside a prison door, the narrator recalls finding a book by Jonathan Pue and a ragged piece of needlework in a Salem building where he worked as a surveyor. For 10 points, name or identify the function of this section of a Nathaniel Hawthorne novel featuring Hester Prynne.
“The Custom House” [or the preface to The Scarlet Letter; accept anything indicating the introduction or introductory part or preface or frame-story or opening section of The Scarlet Letter; do not accept or prompt on “the first chapter of The Scarlet Letter” or other answers indicating “first chapter”]
8

154543-)
In his biography of this show’s composer, David Ewen argues that the opening number of this show is actually a repurposed piece originally written on commission for Paul Whiteman. For the film adaptation of this show, the lyricist was forced to revise the verse “all the boys are feelin’ lusty / and the girls ain’t even puttin’ up a fight” in a song that links the time of year to sexual awakening. This show has come under fire for a scene where a character gets slapped but remarks that it feels like a kiss. A spa owner assures her grieving cousin that there is “a golden sky / and the sweet silver song of a lark” if she can endure the death of this show’s main character. This show, which adapts Ferenc Molnár’s play Liliom, contains the songs “June is Bustin’ Out All Over” and “You’ll Never Walk Alone.” For 10 points, name this musical in which the amusement park barker Billy Bigelow seeks posthumous redemption following his suicide, by Rodgers and Hammerstein.
Carousel
8

154561-)
A philological scandal that arose in Britain after the 1970 publication of a book titled for a “sacred” one of these things “and the cross” ruined the academic career of John Marco Allegro. The man who pioneered the ethnological study of these things, R. Gordon Wasson, wrote a 1968 monograph examining his theory that the Vedic soma was made from a type of them. The “blasted landscapes” preferred by one of these things stand in for the possibility of life in the “cracks of the global political economy” in a 2015 anthropological study written by one of the leading scholars of the “anthropocene.” That examination of “the possibility of life in capitalist ruins” is titled for one of these things “at the end of the world” and contains Anna Tsing’s writings on a species of them known as the matsutake, which was the first living thing to grow in the wake of the Hiroshima and Nagasaki atomic bombings. For 10 points, name these organisms whose connection to culture is studied by ethnomycologists.
mushrooms [accept The Sacred Mushroom and the Cross or Soma: Divine Mushroom of Immortality or The Mushroom at the End of the World: On the Possibility of Life in Capitalist Ruins; prompt on “fungus” or “fungi” or similar answers]
8

154564-)
In a novel by this author, the protagonist’s husband has a separate bedroom, wants to move to Brazil, and wants his son Junior to learn that sex is a “grand joke,” all of which are suggestive of his homosexuality. After taking refuge from a storm in a church, the protagonist of a novel by this author meets her future husband, the preacher Pleasant Green. In a novel by this author, a woman shatters her husband’s heirloom cup after suspecting him of an affair with a woman whom she had encountered at a rooftop cafe in Chicago in the novel’s first part, “Encounter.” This author’s friend Carl Van Vechten inspired the writer Hugh Wentworth in a novel whose ambiguous ending suggests that the protagonist may have caused a woman’s fatal fall from a window. This creator of the half-Danish Helga Crane wrote a novel in which Irene Redfield encounters her light-skinned childhood friend Clare Kendry, who has married a racist white man. Quicksand and Passing are by, for 10 points, what female writer of the Harlem Renaissance?
Nella Larsen [or Nellallitea Larsen]
8

154572-)
This poem’s speaker says to Life, “I would hear Death speak,” to which Life responds by raising her voice a little higher and saying, “You hear him now.” This poem was published with the poet’s drawings interspersed between its lines, including the recurring image of an open palm with a flower tendril running through it. As part of its closing study of Christ, this poem asks, “Was the love of Judas’s mother for her son less than the love of Mary for Jesus?” In this poem, people climb the “Blessed Mountain” and gain the desire “to descend and be with those who dwell in the deepest valley.” The speaker of this poem states that he “heard the Sphinx” but “did not understand” after declaring himself “the infinite sea.” The Beatles’ song “Julia” popularized this poem’s statement that “half of what I say is meaningless; but I say it so that the other half may reach you.” The claim that “I am forever walking upon these shores, betwixt” the two title substances opens, for 10 points, what long, aphorism-filled poem by Khalil Gibran?
“Sand and Foam”
8

154579-)
At the end of a short story, a man whose job involves installing this material places the frozen body of a missing child whose neck he had snapped years earlier into the arms of the child’s Pakistani mother, the “doctor’s wife.” That horrifying story titled for a man who works with this material is the most anthologized story of Southern Gothic writer William Gay. In another short story, some of this stuff is described in a sentence noting how “the bloated curves and flourishes—a kind of ‘debased Romanesque’ with delirium tremens—go waddling up and down in isolated columns of fatuity.” After a week of fog, this material exudes a smell that “creeps all over the house” in that story, which ends with the protagonist creeping over the body of her fainted husband after ripping this material to free the figure trapped behind its pattern. For 10 points, a woman confined to a room for a rest cure is surrounded by what material in a Charlotte Perkins Gilman story?
wallpaper [accept “The Yellow Wallpaper” or “The Paperhanger”]
8

154590-)
This poem’s second section is haunted by the specter of the atom bomb, noting that “all suppressions, / from the witchcraft trials at Salem / to the latest / book burnings / are confessions / that the bomb / has entered our lives.” The closing “Coda” section of this poem is a lengthy celebration of light, which “for all time shall outspeed / the thunder crack.” In this poem’s discussion of the Iliad, the speaker argues that silence “is like Homer’s / catalogue of ships: / it fills up the time,” and that “all women are not Helen, / I know that, / but have Helen in their hearts.” This poem’s speaker states that he “was cheered” upon learning “that there were flowers also / in hell” as he drinks in the joy of his wife’s approach, “perhaps for the last time.” In this poem, the speaker pleads to his wife for forgiveness by describing an object “like a buttercup / upon its branching stem” of which “I come, my sweet, / to sing to you.” For 10 points, name this long poem by William Carlos Williams about a plant that grows in the Greek underworld.
“Asphodel, That Greeny Flower”
8

154594-)
This woman’s granddaughter, Kate Hennessy, has written a recent biography of this woman subtitled The World Will Be Saved by Beauty. This woman wrote about dealing patiently with “a terror” named Mr. O’Connell, who stayed for over a decade at a farm in Easton, Pennsylvania. After returning from Europe, she wrote a novel based largely on her own life in Greenwich Village that described the abortion she had after getting pregnant by Lionel Moise; that novel was published as The Eleventh Virgin. Her relationship with anarchist Forster Batterham fell apart after her religious conversion. The St. Joseph’s House was the first of around 30 hospitality houses established by this woman, who founded a paper that still sells for one cent per copy and shares it name with the movement she cofounded. In the 1930s, she met a Frenchman who advocated a “green revolution” of communal farming and was named Peter Maurin. For 10 points, name this journalist who founded the Catholic Worker movement.
Dorothy Day
8

154596-)
A book about this activity opens with a comparison to “a miner’s pick, a woodcarver’s gouge, a surgeon’s probe” and contains an anecdote about a singing cab driver whose one boring song serves to remind Annie Dillard of the “courage” needed to “tie off the umbilical cord.” A 1994 book about this activity discusses how two stereo speakers convey simultaneous messages of “self-aggrandizement” and “self-loathing” broadcast by the fictional “Radio Station KFKD” (“K-fucked”). That book about this activity is titled for advice that Anne Lamott got from her father to finish a school assignment by taking it “bird by bird.” A 2000 book about this activity, which mentions the “Poepictures” ("poe pictures") of Vincent Price as an inspiration and contains an autobiographical section recounting a cocaine addiction, was the first published by its author after he was hit by a van while walking in Maine. Stephen King wrote a book “on,” for 10 points, what activity, which some instructors teach to do on “what you know”?
writing [accept answers mentioning forms of the word write such as how to write or writing fiction or writing books; accept On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft or The Writing Life]
8

154607-)
Several critics, such as Kenneth Kramer, have traced the measurement of time in this poem to the repeated tolling of a bell, which clangs at the end of this work’s first section. This poem portrays evolution as a “means of disowning the past” and states that “we had the experience but missed the meaning.” After setting “time the destroyer” equal to “time the preserver,” this poem ponders what Krishna meant “when he admonished Arjuna / on the field of battle.” Its fifth section describes a “music heard so deeply / that it is not heard at all” before telling the addressee that “you are the music / while the music lasts.” That last section of this poem declares that the “hint half guessed, the gift half understood, is Incarnation.” Sea imagery is set against the “life of significant soil” in this poem, which opens “I do not know much about gods; but I think that the river / is a strong brown god.” A set of rocks off the coast of Cape Ann, Massachusetts, lend their name to, for 10 points, what poem, the third of T. S. Eliot’s Four Quartets?
“The Dry Salvages” (sal-VAY-jez, but a normal reading is fine too) [prompt on “Four Quartets”]
8

154619-)
One of this author’s writings states that “the bird that I hope to catch is not the solution of one man’s psychological problem,” but rather the “interplay of live human beings in the thundercloud of common crisis.” This author wrote “her silliness is gone and she has dignity and tragic beauty” in describing the pantomime of a woman making a comforting speech. This author described a fire escape as “a structure whose name is a touch of accidental poetic truth” in a note that ends with a man dressed as a “merchant sailor” strolling up to it. In a long stage direction in one play, this author discussed how a desire of one character “had to be disavowed to ‘keep face,’” which “may be at the heart of the ‘mendacity’” that he loathes. Directions at the end of a play by this author describe a girl bending over to blow out some candles. For 10 points, name this author of The Glass Menagerie and Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III]
8

154626-)
The protagonist of a story by this author is unable to answer questions like “what kind of tree is that?” and “what bird is that singing?” posed by his elderly mentor while skipping violin classes intended to turn him into a prodigy. In a story by this author, the narrator realizes the “world was small and ugly” after overhearing that his fishmonger grandfather was killed in the street and being splattered with entrails by a legless man on his way home from a wild-game market. The child Catherine is confused by this author’s image of a division commander having legs “like two girls wedged to their shoulders in riding boots” in Doris Lessing’s “homage for” this author. This author of “Awakening” and “The Story of My Dovecot” described shoving an old woman and stomping in the head of her goose to win over a group of Cossack soldiers in one of his war stories. For 10 points, name this Jewish Russian author of autobiographical stories set in Odessa and the collection Red Cavalry.
Isaac Babel [or Isaac Emmanuilovich Babel; accept “Homage for Isaac Babel”] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by the editors (6) Bonuses
8

154650-)
In an entry in this series, a pale man dressed in all white who calls himself “Mr. Sad” delivers a lengthy monologue peppered with nonsense words like “crumblechaw” and repeated sentences like “that is not my name.” In an entry of this series, the protagonist reads letters a man wrote on an oil tanker and in Paris while obsessively working on a biography of an author whose widow, Sophie, he marries. In one of these novels, a character discovers that the routes an old man takes while collecting junk off the sidewalk spell out the words “TOWER OF BABEL,” contributing to a mental breakdown that leads him to spend months in a garbage bin outside the Stillmans’ apartment. A man’s research on the supposedly deceased author Fanshawe, Blue’s investigation of Black, and Daniel Quinn’s pretending to be a PI are among the plotlines of this series inspired by detective fiction. Ghosts, The Locked Room, and City of Glass make up, for 10 points, what set of Paul Auster novels titled for a city?
The New York Trilogy
8

154654-)
In a story’s Gogol-inspired last sentence, a member of this organization states, “And everything that ever happened to me afterwards, I never felt the same about again.” In that story, members of this organization stay at an old woman’s house, where they play cards with Hawkins and Belcher before killing them. The main characters of “Guests of the Nation” are part of this group, as is a character who sees the silhouette of a man in front of “a row of chimney pots” after pulling off a ruse in which he raises his hat above a parapet. At the end of that story, that member of this organization descends to the street and discovers that the man he killed was his brother. Minnie Powell fawns over the poet Davoren because he lets her believe that he is a fugitive member of this organization in the play The Shadow of a Gunman. Liam O’Flaherty’s “The Sniper” is about a member of, for 10 points, what organization that appears in Sean O’Casey’s plays about the Anglo-Irish War?
IRA [or Irish Republican Army; do not accept or prompt on “P(rovisional) IRA” or “Provos”] [“Guests of the Nation” is by Frank O’Connor.]
8

154681-)
This book’s narrator recalls his mother’s gift of a four-foot-long pencil that was displayed in the window of a stationary shop. The images of a “cradle” that “rocks above an abyss” and of existence as a “brief crack of light between two eternities of darkness” open this book, which recalls an excursion to Biarritz in which the narrator becomes infatuated with a girl called Colette. Its chapter “Lodgings in Trinity Lane,” which is framed by two episodes in which the narrator destroys his tutor’s tea set, describes how the narrator often played goalkeeper in soccer games at Cambridge. This book ends with the narrator about to board a steamship bound for America, includes the chapter “Mademoiselle O,” and was first published in 1951 under the U.S. title Conclusive Evidence. The narrator directly addresses his wife, Vera, in this book that recounts a loss of country resulting from the Russian Revolution and frequent excursions to hunt butterflies. For 10 points, name this memoir by Vladimir Nabokov.
Speak, Memory [or Drugie berega; or Other Shores; accept Conclusive Evidence before “Conclusive”]
8

154689-)
A woman in this story “shows with expressive face how interested she is, how impressed,” as her dinner companion describes his plans to expand his business. After weeping due to “the terrifying sun” and fleeing to the men’s room, a character in this story returns to watch people making a seemingly “eternal circuit” on a merry-go-round. This story’s protagonist shouts, “What are they doing? Don’t they know what they’re doing?” after two people argue over entering a fortune teller’s booth. In the last sentence of this story, the narrator wakes into “the bleak winter morning of my 21st birthday” and sees “the windowsill shining with its lip of snow, and the morning already begun.” In this story, the protagonist imagines himself in an old movie theater watching the day of his parent’s engagement at the Coney Island boardwalk. For 10 points, name this best-known short story of Delmore Schwartz.
“In Dreams Begin Responsibilities”
8

154708-)
The narrator of a story reflects on the threefold prohibition on this activity introduced in a “well-known dialogue” in which a sage claims that it is unnecessary to forbid this action. A man engaged in this action is visited by his childhood friend, a red-haired cannibal, in a draft of one short story. Performing this activity leads the narrator to collapse in a puddle of his own blood, where a singing hound finds him, near the end of “The Investigations of a Dog.” In response to the protagonist of another story whispering that he “always wanted you to admire” his doing this action, his overseer says, “We do admire it,” but the overseer reverses the statement when the protagonist says that this action shouldn’t be admired. That character performs this activity for Christ-like 40-day periods before he is buried “straw and all” and replaced with a “young panther” in the circus cage where crowds once gathered to watch him perform this action. For 10 points, what action does Franz Kafka’s “The Hunger Artist” perform professionally?
fasting [accept equivalents such as starving oneself or not eating; accept answers mentioning forms of the word hunger before “Hunger”]
8

154713-)
Haranguing a group of characters, this figure says they belong where “heads are lopped and eyes gouged out” “long moan of tortured men spiked underneath the spine and stuck on pales.” In his first appearance, this character declares, “I’ll not leave you—no, I’ll stand beside you, your protector till the end,” as he walks toward a sleeping man who clutches a stone amidst other sleeping characters. In his best-known speech, he declares that a mother is “just a nurse to that new life embedded in her” and “the parent is the one who plants the seed, / the father.” This character defends the protagonist at a trial where the latter is acquitted because the vote of this character’s sister breaks the tied jury vote. The play opens with a priestess of this god finding the protagonist in his temple, seeking sanctuary from the title characters. For 10 points, in Aeschylus’s The Eumenides, what god purifies Orestes at Delphi?
Apollo
8

154719-)
A poem titled for this activity notes that “suddenly you can hardly stand / the love flooding you for your brother,” who gets up “before noon to study his German” and sings “Wagner, the opera you hate most, / the worst music ever invented.” That Philip Levine poem states that “if you’re / old enough to read this you know what / [this activity] is, although you may not do it.” In a Coleridge poem, slugs leaving their lair and bees stirring make up nature’s examples of this activity. That poem states that this activity “without Hope draws nectar in a sieve.” In response to “what place is this?” and “where are we now?” the title substance of a Carl Sandburg poem declares, “I am the grass,” and asks, “Let me do” this action. A rumination on death ends by recognizing that this this action “has to be done” in a poem that illustrates it with “postmen like doctors” who “go from house to house.” For 10 points, the speaker of Philip Larkin’s “Aubade” says that he does what activity “all day” before getting “half-drunk at night”?
work [accept forms of the word work such as working or doing work; prompt on synonyms such as “labor”]
8

154724-)
A character in this novel imagines her cat telling stories that all begin, “My mother, who was the first cat, told me this,” while they sit by a creek near a buried box of silver dollars. In a children’s rhyme repeated in this novel, one of the main characters asks another, “Would you like to go to sleep? down in the boneyard ten feet deep!” In this novel, a prized collection of Dresden figurines is destroyed during a riot that begins when the fire chief puts out a fire at the protagonist’s house and then silently picks up a stone and throws it through a window. A doll buried in a field and a book nailed to a tree are among the “safeguards” this novel’s protagonist uses to protect her home, which her greedy cousin Charles intrudes on. The narrator of this novel lives with Uncle Julian and her sister Constance, the only people who survived when she poisoned her family’s sugar bowl with arsenic. For 10 points, the teenager Merricat Blackwood resides in the title mansion in what Shirley Jackson novel?
We Have Always Lived in the Castle
8

154735-)
This author provided the criterion of “does this work help or encourage men to know and claim their social rights?” to judge works of art. This author argued that photographs of war often depoliticized conflicts by editing out suffering, in his essay “Photographs of Agony.” Building on the collaboration between Walker Evans and James Agee for Let Us Now Praise Famous Men, this author provided the text but did not directly reference Jean Mohr’s photographs in books such as a study of migrant labor titled A Seventh Man. The claim that “men act and women appear” is central to this critic’s discussion of the female nude in European painting. This author takes a box cutter to Venus in a reproduction of Sandro Botticelli's Venus and Mars at the opening of a four-part series in which he discusses oil paint as a status symbol and advertising as the dominant contemporary visual medium. For 10 points, name this novelist and art historian who created the BBC television series Ways of Seeing.
John Berger [or John Peter Berger]
8

154743-)
The final poem of one of this poet’s collections declares that “problems of sexuality need not / trouble us here” because a recurring character is dead. This poet stated that a “daughter’s body / doesn’t exist, except / as a branch of the mother’s body,” in detailing a “second version” of the Persephone myth. This poet wrote, “I would like to see you walk off the face of the earth / because you are all that’s wrong with my life / and I need you and I claim you,” in a poem about the addressee’s title “Purple Bathing Suit.” This poet used the Odyssey as a basis for her collection Meadowlands. A poem by this woman asks, “Do you see? / we were made fools of,” and closes by wondering, “How can I rest? / how can I be content / when there is still / that odor in the world?” In that poem, this author wrote of the title flowers, “I hate them. / I hate them as I hate sex.” Averno and The Wild Iris are collections by, for 10 points, what American poet who wrote “Mock Orange” and served as Poet Laureate in 2003?
Louise Glück [or Louise Elisabeth Glück]
8

154749-)
A book by this author declares that “there are roughly three” versions of the city it discusses, including the one “of the person who was born somewhere else and came to [it] in quest of something.” Dorothy Parker wrote that the “second-greatest favor” you can do for your “young friends” is to give them a copy of a book edited by this author, while the greatest is “to shoot them now, while they’re happy.” An essay by this author closes with the sentence “as he buckled the swollen belt suddenly my groin felt the chill of death” after describing taking his son to a camp where this man had summered as a child. This author of Here is New York wrote the pieces collected in One Man’s Meat and the essay “Once More to the Lake” after moving to Maine. He updated a book by his Cornell professor that advises “prefer the standard to the offbeat” and “omit needless words.” For 10 points, The Elements of Style is by William Strunk and what author of Charlotte’s Web?
E. B. White [or Elwyn Brooks White]
8

154768-)
A servant girl notes that this substance could have caused “that ugly monkey Smythe” to crash a cart and claims its “good for the complexion” after another character expresses her love for it. Speaking about this substance, a character remarks “it was like walking on the bottom of the sea. As if I had drowned long ago” in a monologue preceded by his quoting of Ernest Dowson’s “They Are Not Long.” The title character claims that this substance is “funny and still. I feel as if I was—out of things altogether” in the second act of Anna Christie, which ends with her father Chris ranting against seeing this substance “all bloody time.” This substance, which titles the first one-act play by Eugene O’Neill put on by the Provincetown Players, surrounds the setting of a play in which it necessitates the repeated sounding of an offstage horn that keeps the morphine-addicted Mary Tyrone awake. For 10 points, name this cloudy substance that symbolically enshrouds the coastline setting of Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
fog [prompt on mist or water vapor; prompt on clouds until “cloudy” is read]
8

154780-)
This man hoped to meld an osteria with a cyber café in his late 1990s idea for a project called the Multimedia Arcade. In one of his essays, he argues that Giorgio Napolitano is ultimately to blame for Christ’s crucifixion. Independent of Edward Mendelson, this man claimed that the “Macintosh is counter-reformist and has been influenced by the ‘ratio studiorum’ of the Jesuits” in an essay declaring that Macs are Catholic and PCs are Protestant. A collection of essays by this man on such topics as Harry Potter and Stephen Hawking originally appeared in his column “Minerva’s Matchbook” and takes its title from a mysterious saying of Pluto from Dante’s Inferno. This author of the recent collection Chronicles of a Liquid Society wrote an essay in which a computer glitch at a hotel causes a delay in him putting a fish he bought in Stockholm in a minibar fridge. “How to Travel with a Salmon” is an essay by, for 10 points, what author of The Name of the Rose?
Umberto Eco
8

154783-)
In this novel, a clairvoyant makes a business of offering meetings with Mephistopheles to rich people, the profits of which are taken by a blackmailer who knows her husband deserted his patrol in Korea. Recurring characters in this novel include a countess whose archaeologist husband committed suicide after searching for the city of Lebtit, and whose daughter was hunted down and killed by a Swede for letting his infant son drown. Each chapter of this novel lifts quotations from two authors determined by a system based on 42 lists of things. A character in this novel spends twenty years painting 500 seascapes of 500 ports and sends them to his neighbor Gaspard Winckler to be turned into puzzles, which he then spends twenty years completing and destroying. That man, Bartlebooth, reappears throughout this novel, which uses the knight’s tour sequence to move through the 10x10 grid of a Parisian apartment building. For 10 points, name this masterpiece of Oulipo fiction by Georges Perec.
Life: A User’s Manual [or La Vie mode d'emploi; prompt on Life or La vie]
8

154796-)
After meeting this poet, a boy named Lucas who spontaneously recites his works deliberately maims himself with the factory machine that killed his brother. A detective named Catherine tries to stop a series of suicide bombings by children who recite this poet in the story “The Children’s Crusade.” This poet’s work forms a motif in the stories that form Michael Cunningham’s novel Specimen Days. A poem by this man is set at a time when “the lilac-scent was in the air and Fifth-month grass was growing,” and describes “two feather’d guests from Alabama.” This poet wrote of people singing “what belongs to him or her and to none else, / the day what belongs to the day” in a poem about the “varied carols” he heard in the title place. The phrase “the sea whisper’d me” ends a poem by this man about “the low and delicious word death” and “the mocking-bird’s throat, the musical shuttle.” For 10 points, name this poet of “I Hear America Singing” and “Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking,” which appear in his book Leaves of Grass.
Walt Whitman
8

154810-)
Description acceptable. After this scene, a character describes “with mounting violence” a state of “[moving] about in a cloud of ignorance” and always being “at the mercy of one self-centered passion, or another.” In this scene, a policeman repeats a story about how he rescued a drunk Polish man who fell asleep in a snowdrift. A speech spoken in this scene begins “let’s look at one another” and is addressed to a woman pointing out blue and yellow paper-covered objects. In this scene, the left side of the stage dims as the sobbing protagonist bids “good-by to clocks ticking . . . [and] sunflowers, and food and coffee” before asking “do any human beings ever realize life while they live it?” In this scene, a girl tries to tell her mother “you’re a grandmother, Mama; I married George Gibbs, Mama” as she fixes her breakfast. For 10 points, identify this scene from a Thornton Wilder play in which the Stage Manager allows Emily Webb to relive a day of her life.
Emily Webb’s 12th birthday [or the birthday scene from Our Town; accept Emily’s 12th birthday after “Emily”; accept answers indicating the final scene or ending of Our Town; prompt on “Act III of Our Town”; prompt on partial answers]
8

154838-)
When the main character of this story asks an old man what the large knot he is making is for, the latter replies “for someone else to undo” and throws it at him. Four men picking oakum and six men polishing hatchets overlook the main action of this story. This story notes how a character was “dragged to the gibbet at the tail of a mule” before his head, “that hive of subtlety,” was put on a pole in its concluding section, which follows extracts from the official deposition of its title character. When the protagonist of this story expresses incredulity over a tale about being “becalmed for two months,” a character wrapped in the Spanish flag shakes so much that he is nicked by the man shaving him. At the climax of this novella, the skeleton of Don Alexandro is revealed when a canvas bearing the words “follow your leader” falls off the figurehead of the San Dominick, a ship actually being run by Babo. Amasa Delano realizes the title captain was deposed by a slave revolt in, for 10 points, what novella by Herman Melville?
“Benito Cereno”
8

154852-)
The speaker of a poem titled for this genre portrays himself as “a lone man talking to myself” imagining “that throng of Selves / that make this nation one body of Prophecy.” A poem titled for this genre declares that “we’re not our skin of grime” and that we are “blessed by our own seed &amp; hairy naked accomplishment-bodies.” The claim that “Carry Nation began the war on Vietnam here” appears in a poem titled for this genre that opens “I’m an old man now, and a lonesome man . . . but not afraid / to speak my lonesomeness in a car” and was based on recordings its author made on a bus trip across the Midwest. A poem titled for this genre begins “I walked on the banks of the tincan banana dock and sat down under the huge shade of a Southern Pacific locomotive” and was inspired by finding the title plant while walking with Jack Kerouac. For 10 points, name this genre that Allen Ginsberg used to title poems about a “Wichita vortex” and a “sunflower.”
sutras [accept “Wichita Vortex Sutra” or “Sunflower Sutra”]
8

154866-)
This book’s pragmatic view of skepticism is presented in a passage arguing that “Nature confounds the Pyrrhonists, and reason confounds the dogmatists.” Edward McClennen popularized the use of a decision matrix to formalize an argument that this book details under the heading “Infinite-nothing.” This book points out that “it is not necessary that the entire universe arm itself to crush” man because a drop of water can kill him in a passage comparing man to a “thinking reed.” This book sums up its distinction between the two complementary faculties of the mathematical mind and the intuitive mind with the aphorism “the heart has its reasons of which reason knows nothing.” This book claims that the whole face of the world would be different if Cleopatra’s nose had been shorter and contains an argument beginning “God is, or He is not. But to which side shall we incline?” For 10 points, name this fragmentary book of thoughts that contains the “wager” of its author, Blaise Pascal.
Pensées [prompt on “Thoughts”]
8

154871-)
A poem in this collection describes something the title man wanted to keep in a place “where everything is silence and the / beating of a bloody hand upon / a splintered table." The last section of this collection is a long address to the feral boy Victor of Aveyron titled “Meditations for a Savage Child.” This book’s title poem claims that “the words are purposes” and “the words are maps” and notes “we are, I am, you are by cowardice or courage the one who find our way back to this scene.” This collection, which split the National Book Award for Poetry with Allen Ginsberg’s The Fall of America, includes “The Ninth Symphony of Beethoven at Last Understood as a Sexual Message.” The speaker of this collection’s title poem carries “a book of myths in which our names do not appear” and has to perform the title action “not like Cousteau with his / assiduous team” but with an “awkward mask” and “absurd flippers.” For 10 points, name this Adrienne Rich collection titled for an action of underwater exploration.
Diving into the Wreck
8

154875-)
This author included an unconventional list of props including “smell effects: incense . . . dirt/filth smells/bodies” at the beginning of a play subtitled “A Historical Pageant.” In a play by this author, a woman says “you look like you've been reading Chinese poetry and drinking lukewarm sugarless tea; you look like death eating a soda cracker,” prompting the protagonist to wonder if she knows Warren Enright. A play by this author ends with the revolutionary Walker Vessels being injured by an explosion that is implied to have killed the two “freakish mulatto” daughters he had with his ex-wife Grace. A character who enters the stage eating an apple enrages the protagonist by calling him “Uncle Thomas Woolly-Head” before stabbing him in a play by this author about Lulu and Clay’s conversation on a New York City subway car. For 10 points, name this African-American author of the plays The Slave Ship, The Slave, and Dutchman.
Amiri Baraka [or (Everett) LeRoi Jones; or Imamu Amear Baraka]
8

154901-)
An essay titled for this activity calls for a “Society for the Diffusion of Useful Ignorance” to spread “Beautiful Knowledge.” In the last chapter of a book about this activity, the author looks back at a smog-shrouded Las Vegas from a campground in Red Rocks. Wordsworth’s acquaintance John Stewart and the Peace Pilgrim are among the anecdotes about this activity discussed in a 2000 history of it. An essay about this activity proclaims “eastward I go only by force; but westward I go free” in a passage identifying the West with “the Wild”; The Atlantic published that popular essay titled for this activity shortly after the death of its author, Henry David Thoreau. The recovering alcoholic Stephen Katz appears a Bill Bryson book about engaging in this activity “in the woods,” and women engaging in it in cities is the subject of Lauren Elkin’s book Flaneuse. For 10 points, Rebecca Solnit’s Wanderlust profiles what mode of travel described in many John Muir books?
walking [or hiking; accept any synonyms of traveling on foot such as strolling or tramping; prompt on “traveling” or “wandering” or similar terms; accept more specific answers such as hiking the Appalachian trail]
8

154906-)
A critic claimed that this novel shocked its readers as Édouard Manet did “the bewhiskered philistines of his day” with its lengthy description of an overgrown garden shaded by aspen trees. A metaphor in this novel’s first chapter compares the tailcoats of men at a ball to flies fluttering around a block of sugar cut by an old housekeeper. During Dimitri’s trial in The Brothers Karamazov, the lawyer Kirillovich questions the optimism of a passage from this novel in which the narrator asks “who invented thee!” of a “bird-like” object. In a study of this novel’s author that examines those passages, Vladimir Nabokov argued that this novel’s characters exude a type of vulgarity called “poshlust.” In the last paragraph of this novel, the narrator imagines how “nations and states gaze askance as they step aside and give her the right away” in an extended metaphor comparing Russia to a three-horse sleigh, or troika. For 10 points, name this novel about the conman Chichikov by Nikolai Gogol.
Dead Souls [or Mjórtvyje dúshi] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by NYU (Ben Chin, Mary Akdemir, Arnav Sood, Rahul Rao-Pothuraju, Ali Hasson, Harrison Hsu, Harrison Whitaker, Alec Vulfson) and Johns Hopkins B (Joseph Cleary, Forrest Hammel, Tommy Tripp, Walter Zhao) Bonuses
8

154918-)
A voice repeatedly calls out “another strike!” during a speech delivered for this organization that argues that the “common people” are in fact the “uncommon people.” The narrator realizes that a member of this organization is missing an eye when he puts his glass eye in a water glass while ranting about discipline. A member of this group buys cheesecake for the main character after watching him incite a crowd to move the belongings of an evicted elderly couple back into their apartment. The protagonist provides false lists of new members to this organization after resolving to “overcome them with yeses.” A missing member of this organization reappears selling Sambo dolls on the street; the shooting of that man, Tod Clifton, by a police officer leads to riots incited by an enemy of this organization, the nationalist Ras the Exhorter. For 10 points, name this communist organization whose member Jack recruits the narrator as a spokesperson in Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man.
the Brotherhood
8

154939-)
The narrator of a novel by this author interjects in all-caps to tell the protagonist “GO STEADY” in a chapter in which she fusses over whether to use pigeon-blood paper for a note. In a letter discovered in 2007, this author asked Dr. Kinnicutt for help writing a scene in which the protagonist imagines Nettie Struther’s child lying on her arm. In a novel by this author, a visitor who wants to buy tapestries from the estate of the Chelle family turns out to be the protagonist’s first husband, whom she then remarries after divorcing Raymond. This author of a novel about a woman who precipitates Ralph Moffat’s suicide by telling him about her marriage to Elmer Moffatt in the town of Apex also wrote a novel in which Lawrence Selden arrives too late to propose to a woman who has been “sleeping badly for a long time” and had just overdosed on chloral. For 10 points, name this author whose New York-set novels include one about Undine Spragg, Custom of the Country, and one about Lily Bart, House of Mirth.
Edith Wharton [accept Edith Newbold Jones]
8

154943-)
In one work, this author criticizes Sylvia Plath’s poem “Daddy” for appropriating “the unspeakable annals of ‘Dachau, Auschwitz, Belsen.’” This author describes how “Romanticism turns almost immediately into Decadence” in a work that argues that “the mother” inspires lifelong sexual anxiety in men. The Marquis de Sade is described as a satirist of Rousseau in that book by this writer that seeks to “demonstrate the unity and continuity of western culture.” One of this author’s works both reviews and is titled for John Donne’s Holy Sonnet XIV. Another work by this author describes Gracie Allen and the Oracle at Delphi as examples of the “pythoness.” This author collected 43 of her favorite poems in the collection Break, Blow, Burn. This author’s best-known book replaces the Dionysian with the Chthonic in the Apollonian/Dionysian distinction and argues that “pornography in great art . . . [has] been ignored by most academic critics.” For 10 points, name this heterodox feminist thinker who wrote Sexual Personae.
Camille Paglia [or Camille Anna Paglia]
8

154950-)
A poem with this title speculates “maybe the Almighty Himself has turned a bit bourgeois / and uses a credit card” after stating that “the last twenty years were good for practically everybody, / save the dead.” Gertrude Stein’s The Making of Americans was published in an influential modernist review whose name, which was stylized in lowercase, included this adjective; in addition to editing The English Review, Ford Madox Ford ran that magazine in 1924. This adjective titles a 2013 novel in which Frederick Douglass’s visit to Ireland inspires the housemaid Lily to move to America, written by Colum McCann. A misspelling of this adjective titles a novel in which Puto obsesses over young boys such as Ignacy; that novel is based on the escape of its author, Witold Gombrowicz, from Poland to Argentina. For 10 points, identify this compound adjective that names the slave trade that brought Phillis Wheatley to America, as well as a branch of studies that examines literary linkages across a certain ocean.
transatlantic [accept “Transatlantic” or Trans-Atlantyk or The Transatlantic Review or TransAtlantic or transatlantic slave trade]
8

154958-)
A poem by this author asks “who is not an atheist about Emily Dickinson’s body, which is totally unbelievable?” after stating that Dickinson “was the father of American poetry and Walt Whitman was the mother.” This poet wrote that “the last words live / in the family head, and let them live in there a while” in a work that confesses that “I sent my brother nothing in the desert because / I was busy writing poems.” That poem by this author includes Helen of Sparta in its title “List of Cross-Dressing Soldiers.” This woman wrote “but no, they are eating the grass” at the end of a poem stating that “Bambi is fresh / and we want him on film.” This author of “The Whole World Gets Together and Gangbangs a Deer” wrote about being the child of a married priest in a 2017 memoir. Her collection Motherland Fatherland Homelandsexuals includes a poem that dares “you” to admit it’s funny that “he gave you Pet Sounds” the day after committing sexual assault. For 10 points, what American author wrote Priestdaddy and “Rape Joke”?
Patricia Lockwood [or Tricia Lockwood]
8

154970-)
Drawing on an article by J. Elfreth Watkins, among other sources, Henry Charlton Beck compiled a canonical set of stories about this creature. A well-known description of this beast appears in a falsified 1790 diary entry of Vance Larner, who claimed to have seen this creature screaming as it rubbed against an oak tree. This creature is sometimes regarded as a harbinger of war, having been sighted on December 7, 1941, hours before the Pearl Harbor attack. Legend states that, while hunting near an estate in Bordentown, Joseph Bonaparte found this creature. The subject of a widespread hysteria in 1909, this creature was much earlier linked with the family crest of Titan Leeds, an almanac publisher who feuded with Benjamin Franklin. Its mother was a witch named Mother Leeds who, pregnant with her thirteenth child, wished for it to be a demon; she then gave birth to this creature with a horse head, horns, hooves, and bat-like wings. For 10 points, name this legendary creature from the Pine Barrens of a namesake Atlantic state.
Jersey Devil [accept New Jersey Devil; accept Leeds Devil before “Leeds”]
8

154979-)
In a novel, a character who has this condition leaves the hospital where he was treated for a fractured skull and hallucinates a mouse emerging from a hole and being eaten by a bat. At the end of that novel about this condition, the protagonist finds the money he thought he’d lost in his breast pocket after stealing Helen’s fur coat and pawning it for five dollars. The world-weary “White Logic” that beset the narrator during his “Long Sickness” is described in an autobiographical novel about this condition by Jack London. This condition afflicts Don Birnam in Charles Jackson’s novel The Lost Weekend. Olivia Laing’s The Trip to Echo Spring discusses an author who wrote about a facility for sufferers of this condition in “Where I’m Calling From,” Raymond Carver, as well as other writers afflicted with it such as F. Scott Fitzgerald and Ernest Hemingway. For 10 points, name this condition described in Jack London’s John Barleycorn.
alcoholism [accept answers mentioning addiction to or problems with alcohol or excessive drinking or similar]
8

154988-)
Late in this novel, the women at a dinner party are asked whether they’d rather be waitresses or porn stars during a discussion of the popularity of the film Deep Throat. This novel’s narrator is invited to a dinner at Vincent’s to talk about the “shocks that befell . . . the loved ones” of the protagonist's father. A character in this novel is outraged when a newspaper profile of her cow-raising business features a caption that references her past participation in the Miss America pageant. In this novel, the protagonist’s daughter finally masters her stuttering after converting to Jainism while in hiding after bombing the local general store and post office to bring the Vietnam War home. The protagonist of this novel operates a glove factory in Newark, New Jersey. The frame narrative of this novel is a high school reunion attended by Nathan Zuckerman. For 10 points, name this Philip Roth novel about Swede Levov.
American Pastoral
8

154991-)
A “reply” to this poem notes that “several people called about office hours” and concludes “see you later; love; floss; please turn off the telephone.” When asked why this work should be considered a poem, its author noted that “it’s metrically absolutely regular,” which is untrue, leading Marjorie Perloff to conclude that this poem’s author mistakes “sight for sound.” A response to this poem ends by exclaiming “I wanted you here in the wards, where I am the doctor!” That parody of this poem, which recalls how “we laughed at the hollyhocks together / and then I sprayed them with lye” and how the speaker chopped down the addressee’s house, is a set of variations on its author by Kenneth Koch. A theme of teasing sexuality is often attributed to the description of the subject as “so sweet / and so cold” in this poem, which functions as a note left in the kitchen. For 10 points, the speaker of what poem by William Carlos Williams asks its reader to forgive him for taking plums from the icebox?
“This Is Just to Say”
8

155003-)
This character is unable to explain to his son why, along with hitting a golf ball, hearing the “sound of the rain in” a tree “had been the most religious experience of his life.” In a novella named for this character, his son and illegitimate daughter go to see American Beauty on New Year’s Eve. This character’s son chops down a beech tree that was used to shade his bedroom. This character has his first heart attack when his rented Sunfish capsizes and he thinks his granddaughter Judy has (*) drowned. After working as a linotypist, he becomes rich by inheriting a Toyota dealership. While drunk, this character’s wife Janice drowns their daughter in the bathtub. This native of Brewer, Pennsylvania was a high school basketball star. For 10 points, name this title character of a series of John Updike novels, whose titles follow his name with Run, Redux, Is Rich, and At Rest.
“Rabbit” [or Harry Angstrom; or Harry Angstrom] &lt;Ed. JO&gt;
8

155008-)
On the day she meets her lover for the first time, a character created by this author receives a bad omen when a flower from her crown falls onto the ground. That character, who appears in many of this author’s works including an adaptation of the legend of Floris and Blancheflour, was inspired by Maria d’Aquino. This author of The Elegy of Lady (*) Fiammetta dedicated his best-known work to women who are cooped up in the house all day. This author who inspired Chaucer’s “Franklin’s Tale” with his Filocolo also wrote about a marquis who stages a fake wedding to his 12-year-old daughter as part of a scheme to test his wife Griselda. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about seven women and three men telling stories during a plague outbreak in his Decameron.
Giovanni Boccaccio &lt;Ed. DS&gt;
8

155010-)
In one story by this author, the protagonist purchases a bundle of letters from Mrs. Mogson, who turns out to be the title character in disguise. One of this author’s characters uses a little dog called Shan-Tung as the Nemean Lion in a story collection where he tries to complete twelve labours. Marlene Dietrich played Christine Vole in Billy Wilder’s film adaptation of one of this author’s stories. This author wrote story collections about a non-DC character named Harley Quin, as well as the recurring characters Parker Pyne and the married couple (*) Tommy and Tuppence. In a short story by this author, Sergeant Trotter uses skis to reach Monkswell Manor during a snowstorm. “Three Blind Mice” and “Witness for the Prosecution” were written by, for 10 points, what author who wrote a lot of short stories about Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot?
Agatha Christie &lt;DS&gt;
8

155025-)
A poem asks if one of these things can “sing an aria down these rooms” or “fight with fried potatoes / And yesterday’s garbage ripening in the hall,” after contrasting this word with “feeding a wife” and “satisfying a man.” This word is contrasted with “rent” in the poem “Kitchenette Building.” The lines “Good morning, daddy! / Ain’t you heard?” begin and close a collection titled for these things. The speaker wishes “To whirl and to dance / Till the white day is done” before describing (*) “Night coming tenderly,” in a poem titled “[this thing] Variations.” They name a collection of a Montage of [these things], and a different poem asks whether these things “stink like rotten meat? / Or crust and sugar over-/like a syrupy sweet?” or “dry up / like a raisin in the sun?” For 10 points, Langston Hughes’s “Harlem” asks what happens to which kind of thing “deferred?”
dreams [or Montage of a Dream Deferred; or “Dream Variations;” or “a dream deferred”] &lt;Ed. JO&gt;
8

155042-)
An event in this novel is almost discovered by the victim’s blind mother, who says a brief prayer after smelling whiskey on another character. That event in this novel is investigated by Britten, who mistakenly concludes that the perpetrator conspired with a union organizer. That crime in this novel was uncovered by the discovery of a skeleton and an earring in a (*) furnace, which prompts the protagonist to flee with his eventual next victim, his alcoholic girlfriend Bessie Mears. In this novel, Jan Erlone hires Boris Max, who unsuccessfully tries to prevent the death penalty from being carried out on the protagonist, who suffocated Mary Dalton with a pillow. For 10 points, name this novel about Bigger Thomas, written by Richard Wright.
Native Son &lt;Ed. JO&gt;
8

155069-)
The speaker of a poem partly titled for this kind of person imagines that he is in a “forest, wind hymning through pines, where the musky scent of rain clinging to damp earth” was a “scent I loved.” That poem by Mark Irwin is named for this kind of person’s “Hats.” A person with this relationship to the speaker “beat time on my head with a palm caked hard by dirt” in a poem whose speaker’s “right ear scraped a buckle” at “every step” this person “missed.” That Theodore (*) Roethke poem is named for this person’s “Waltz.” A person with this relationship to the poet is described as “a man in black with a Meinkampf look.” A poem named for a person with this relationship to the poet ends by declaring “you bastard, I’m through.” For 10 points, name this kind of person, whom Sylvia Plath compared to a Nazi in a poem named for him.
The poet’s father [or the poet’s dad; or ”Daddy;” or Papa; or “My Papa’s Waltz;” or My Father’s Hats;” prompt on the poet’s parent; do NOT accept other family members, such as “the poet’s mother”] &lt;JO&gt;
8

155093-)
One story by this author begins with the line “Oh I hate small men and I will write about them no more”. That story follows the narrator’s struggle against his brother for the possession of a dressing table. A novel by this author of “The Lowboy” was inspired by a class this author taught at Sing Sing. This author wrote a story which concludes with the protagonist striking his brother over the head for ruining the Pomeroy family get-together. A novel by this author follows a man who has a gay affair with (*) Jody after murdering his brother with a poker and is named Ezekiel Farragut. This author of“Goodbye My Brother” wrote another story, unrelated to fratricide, where the protagonist tries to invent the Lucinda River and arrives home to find his house abandoned. For 10 points, name this American author who wrote Falconer and “The Swimmer.”
John Cheever &lt;DS&gt;
8

155112-)
A novel by this author was praised by the critic George Wyndham for having us view an event through the protagonist’s “morbidly sensitive” temperament. A character in a novella by this author only respects fire engines after he becomes a truck driver. A novella by this author ends with the title character’s mother screaming “I’ll forgive her!” at her funeral. That novella by this author centers on a character who resorts to (*) prostitution after her boyfriend, the bartender Pete, is seduced by Nellie. The protagonist of a novel by this author hopes to receive the title wound to make up for his fleeing from the Battle of Chancellorsville. This author’s protagonists include Henry Fleming. For 10 points, name this American author of Maggie: A Girl of the Streets and The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane &lt;JO&gt;
8

155130-)
This character reveals an interest in science after he finds a biochemistry book in a carriage and tries to return it to the narrator. An alternate ending ends by remarking that there isn’t much difference between this man’s living and dead relatives, “cept down there they're all quiet, and the women have got to hold their tongues.” This “ruin of a man” is described as having “been in [the central location] too many winters” by the driver (*) Harmon Gow. This man lies about having to pick up cash from Andrew Hale to excuse himself from driving his sickly wife to the Flats. This man’s wife Zeena takes care of him and his cousin Mattie Silver after they attempt suicide by sled crash. For 10 points, name this title character of a novella by Edith Wharton.
Ethan Frome [or Ethan Frome] &lt;Ed. JO&gt;
8

155156-)
A book which portrays this event includes a character who warns Igor about an investment scam, for which he rewards her with ice cream. In that same book which portrays this event, Maxime investigates a security firm headed by Gabriel Ice. As a result of this historical event, Justin steals a pair of binoculars to keep a watch for a man he believes is named “Bill Lawton.” In that book, Keith Neudecker grabs the wrong briefcase during this event and watches a reenactment performed by the title (*) performance artist. Nine year old Oskar Schell must discover what a key unlocks after his father was killed during this event in a novel by Jonathan Safran Foer. For 10 points, name this recent historical event, which has been portrayed in such works as Bleeding Edge, Falling Man, and Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close.
9/11 [or September 11th] &lt;Ed. JO&gt;
8

155180-)
In his final letter, this author wrote that “the insane are always mere guests on earth, eternal strangers carrying around broken decalogues that they cannot read.” In a letter, this author advised his daughter that “all good writing is swimming under water and holding your breath.” This author fired off several nasty letters to an author who had satirized him as the painter David Knight in her only novel. This author listed putative titles for his best-known novel, such as The (*) High-bouncing Lover and Trimalchio, in a letter to his editor. That editor, Maxwell Perkins, advised him to give a character more distinctive traits along the lines of his catchphrase “old sport,” and praised the detail of the “expressionless” “great unblinking eyes of T.J. Eckleberg.” For 10 points, name this author who wrote many love letters to his wife Zelda and penned The Great Gatsby.
F. Scott Fitzgerald [or Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald] &lt;Ed. JO&gt;
8

155192-)
In the last act of this play, a character badly plays the piano with her wedding dress carelessly thrown over one arm. A character in this play quotes Baudelaire to support his argument that they should be drinking to forget, after the patriarch of this play had told his other son to read Shakespeare. A character in this play believes that her second son, (*) Eugene, was intentionally given measles by his brother. The stage directions of this play indicate that the matriarch of its central family has hands that “are never still,” since her fingers have been ruined by rheumatism. The central family of this play includes the alcoholic actors Jamie and James, the morphine-addicted Mary, and the tubercular Edmund. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical Eugene O’Neill play about the Tyrone family.
Long Day’s Journey Into Night &lt;JO&gt;
8

155206-)
The main character of this work can’t decide whether a statue shows someone being blindfolded or having their blindfold removed. In this work, the main character accidentally walks into a union meeting while trying to get his lunch and later fights his foreman because of it. After that fight, the main character of this work is treated with electroshock therapy at the company hospital, and fails to remember his own name when asked. In this novel, a character is told not to open (*) letters he’s supposed to deliver, but later finds out those letters were telling people not to hire him. Those letters were written by Dr. Bledsoe, the president of the main character’s university. The main character of this work delivers an impromptu speech to prevent an eviction and delivers another speech against “dispossession.” For 10 points, name this work about a young man who moves to Harlem, a novel by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [do NOT accept or prompt on “The Invisible Man”] &lt;AF&gt; Bonuses:
8

155217-)
The speaker of a poem by this author claims “writing is exciting,” and incorporates calls Mel Allen made of the title sport. That poem by this writer opens with the parenthetical statement, “Suggested by post-game broadcasts.” In another poem by this author of “Baseball and Writing,” the speaker describes a town with “eight stranded whales,” where the only danger is a man “gilding the solid-pointed star.” This poet describes the “autocrats among us” as (*)“‘literalists of the imagination’” in a poem that was cut down to three lines in a revision for a poetry collection. This poet of “The Steeple-Jack” wrote a poem in which the title activity can conjure “imaginary gardens with real toads in them.” That poem by this author begins with the speaker declaring “I, too, dislike” the title activity. For 10 points, name this American modernist poet of “Poetry.”
Marianne Moore [or Marianne Craig Moore] &lt;Ed. JO&gt;
8

155232-)
One short story by this author begins by describing a copy of Robert Louis Stevenson’s poem “Requiem” pinned to the ground with a knife. In a novella by this author, Diktor gives the protagonist a drink, causing him to wake up 30,000 years in the future. In one of this author’s novels, a “parasite by choice” becomes the patron saint of a religion whose founder explains life with the words “Thou Art God.” Federal service is the only way to gain full (*) citizenship in a novel by this author. This creator of Jubal Harshaw and Johnny Rico created Valentine Michael Smith, a boy raised by Martians, in a book which featured the word “grok.” Paul Verhoeven directed an anti-fascist satire of a novel by this author, in which the Mobile Infantry fights against the “Bugs.” For 10 points, name this author of Stranger in a Strange Land and Starship Troopers.
Robert Anson Heinlein &lt;Ed. HB&gt;
8

155233-)
In this collection, a “tall dark girl” who goes to see a doctor becomes “in the family way” after being courted by a silent man whose bite in the dark marks his passion. In this collection, a character wants to declare that children are “the accidents of life,” due to the conflicting feelings men have about marriage and children. A preacher in this collection is consumed by lust in private after making a hole in his office (*) window to see a teacher naked. This collection includes the stories “The Untold Lie,” “The Strength of God” and “Paper Pills,” and its narrator fails to understand the sexual undertones of his conversations with Kate Swift. This collection begins with its narrator remembering the people he’s encountered as “grotesques.” For 10 points, name this short story collection where George Willard leaves the title Midwestern town, written by Sherwood Anderson.
Winesburg, Ohio &lt;JO&gt;
8

155241-)
The author’s introduction to this book states that, in 20th century culture, “The fiction is already there,” so “The writer’s task is to invent the reality.” That introduction describes this book as “an extreme metaphor for an extreme situation.” In this novel, the protagonist’s secretary Renata gives him two tickets to a sporting event, despite disapproving of his affair with a recent widow. At that event, the protagonist, who shares his name with this novel’s author, meets a character named Seagrave, who later kills himself while cross-dressing as Elizabeth Taylor. In this novel’s closing scene, the protagonist has sex with his wife Catherine and uses the semen to decorate a gore-covered object in which his lover (*) Vaughan died. James Spader starred in David Cronenberg’s 1996 version of, for 10 points, which novel about car accident fetishism by JG Ballard?
Crash &lt;DS&gt;
8

155249-)
The narrator of the book in which this character appears ends the novel by pleading “O God - please bring him back! I shall keep asking You.” When this character performs in a production of A Christmas Carol, he sees his own name and date of death on Scrooge’s gravestone. This character removes the claws from a stuffed armadillo to demonstrate his belief that he is God’s instrument. Barb Wiggin gives him an (*) erection while this character is portraying Baby Jesus in a Christmas pageant. This character’s parents believe him to be “like the Christ Child,” because they never had sex before he was born. This character’s dialogue is always written in all capital letters, and he is killed while saving several Vietnamese orphans from a grenade in Phoenix. For 10 points, identify this diminutive title character of a John Irving novel, named “A Prayer For” him.
Owen Meany [or Owen Meany; or A Prayer for Owen Meany] &lt;Ed. JO&gt;
8

155275-)
While being walked to school, a six year old girl in this novel asks, “Daddy, what if there isn’t any god?” When asked to give a speech, a British lord in this novel says that the Red Death is ravaging America. One character in this novel is dismissed as “doing something weird with his neck” after he flexes his sternocleidomastoid muscles at a pretty juror. After being told that a character in this novel attended class regularly, a journalist for the (*) City Light publishes articles describing him as an “honor student.” The death of Henry Lamb becomes the subject of a media frenzy fed by Reverend Bacon and Peter Fallow in this novel. For 10 points, name this novel in which Larry Kramer prosecutes Wall Street trader Sherman McCoy for a hit and run in a New York ghetto, written by Tom Wolfe.
The Bonfire of the Vanities &lt;DS&gt;
8

155296-)
While being walked to school, a six year old girl in this novel asks, “Daddy, what if there isn’t any god?” When asked to give a speech, a British lord in this novel says that the Red Death is ravaging America. One character in this novel is dismissed as “doing something weird with his neck” after he flexes his sternocleidomastoid muscles at a pretty juror. After being told that a character in this novel attended class regularly, a journalist for the (*) City Light publishes articles describing him as an “honor student.” The death of Henry Lamb becomes the subject of a media frenzy fed by Reverend Bacon and Peter Fallow in this novel. For 10 points, name this novel in which Larry Kramer prosecutes Wall Street trader Sherman McCoy for a hit and run in a New York ghetto, written by Tom Wolfe.
The Bonfire of the Vanities &lt;DS&gt;
8

155318-)
A character created by this man complains that, “with absolutely no humor,” a different character gives a “heartbreaking and earsplitting rendition of Carrie Jacobs Bond’s ‘End of a Perfect Day.’” This playwright reworked his earlier Battle of Angels into a different play, a subplot of which follows Dolly and Beulah. This playwright created a character who believes he is made of “Indian rubber,” but who drops dead at the age of 97 after finishing his last poem. In a play by this author of Orpheus Descending, a tour guide uses the phrase “swimming to (*) china” as a euphemism for suicide. This man wrote a play that ends when T. Lawrence Shannon liberates the title reptile. This playwright of The Night of the Iguana also created Jim O’Connor, a “gentleman caller” who visits Amanda Wingfield. For 10 points, name this American playwright of The Glass Menagerie.
“Tennessee” Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III] &lt;JO&gt;
8

155330-)
According to a poem by Robert Pinsky, poems about these events ask the questions “What is someone?” and “What is a nobody?” Armand d’Angour is best known for a pair of poems about these events. An advocate for these events promoted them with the 1833 poem “Dialogue of the Dead.” Another poem about these events begins “Water is best, and gold, like a blazing fire in the night, stands out supreme of all lordly wealth.” That poem tells the story of Pelops, whose fame “shines from afar” at these events. The ghost of Plato asks where these events have gone in the first (*) modern poem about these events, a work by Panagiotis Soutsos. In 1912, an award in poetry was given at one of these events to Pierre de Coubertin. For 10 points, name these events celebrated by Pindar’s victory odes, at which Greeks competed athletically.
Olympic games [or Olympics, prompt on games or athletic events or similar; accept Isthmian or Pythian games before “Armand” is read]
8

155347-)
The speaker of a poem by this author asks “where is happiness,” as the speaker “cannot guess what I can use an empty heart-cup for.” The speaker of a poem by this author wishes to “wear the brace stockings of night-black lace.” This poet declared that “a girl gets sick of a rose” in a poem whose narrator wants a “peek at the back, where it’s rough and untended and hungry weed grows.” The speaker of a poem by this poet of “the sonnet-ballad” declares that “you remember the (*) children you got that you did not get” and that “abortions will not let you forget.” This poet of “the mother” and A Street in Bronzeville wrote about seven pool players from the Golden Shovel who “sing sin,” “shoot straight,” and “die soon.” For 10 points, name this African-American poet of “We Real Cool.”
Gwendolyn Brooks [or Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks] &lt;JO&gt;
8

155360-)
The protagonist of a novel by this author calls her newborn daughter “a bomb to blow up smugness” at the climax of a speech that she delivers in frustration at the lukewarm response to her proposal for a Community Day. This author wrote that “every compulsion is put upon writers to become safe, polite, obedient, and sterile” in a letter declining the Pulitzer Prize for his novel whose protagonist travels around a Caribbean island, giving away a bacteriophage to cure an outbreak of the plague. This author raised early awareness for the civil rights movement with his novel about a banker based on NAACP leader Walter White, who discovers that he is one-sixty-fourth black. This author of Kingsblood Royal wrote a novel about Carol Kennicott’s efforts at reforming the town of Gopher Prairie. For 10 points, name this American author who popularized the term “Main Street” with his novel of that title.
Sinclair Lewis
7

155382-)
The poem “Vitamins and Roughage” asserts that the “daughters” of this state “educate reluctant humanists” into realizing “that nature is still stronger than man.” An author boasted that “my fingers / had the art / To make stone love stone” in a poem dedicated to “Tor House,” a stone cottage in this state where he spent the better part of his career developing a philosophy that mankind is too self-centered, known as “inhumanism.” Kenneth Rexroth and other poets from here gathered at its Six Gallery to hear the debut of a poem whose reference to being “fucked in the ass by saintly motorcyclists” sparked an obscenity trial at this state’s superior court. The progressive City Lights Bookstore that Lawrence Ferlinghetti founded in this state was raided by police for publishing the collection Howl. For 10 points, name this state where the Beat poets gathered in San Francisco.
California
7

155390-)
The “beings of uncertain provenance and purpose” that appear in this author’s works are the subject of the essay “Dream Textures,” which appears in another author’s collection Campo Santo. After a fictionalized version of this author meets the painter Max Ferber on a mountain in Montreux, Ferber obsesses over creating a portrait of him. This author wrote some “notes on prosody” as an appendix to a work that inspired a feud with Edmund Wilson, this man’s translation of Eugene Onegin. This writer described his encounter with an old, fat swan to presage the death of his Swiss-French governess, Mademoiselle O, in his autobiography Speak, Memory. In this man’s best-known novel, the playwright Clare Quilty is murdered by the narrator, who abducts his step-daughter Dolores Haze. For 10 points, name this Russian-American author who invented Humbert Humbert in his novel Lolita.
Vladimir Nabokov
7

155396-)
In a story by this author, Charlie Wales is not granted custody of his daughter due to the drunken actions of Duncan and Lorraine. The protagonist of a story by this author cuts off her cousin Marjorie’s pigtails after being tricked into performing the title action. This author of “Babylon Revisited” and “Bernice Bobs Her Hair” wrote about Amory Blaine in This Side of Paradise. In his most famous novel, the neighbor of Nick(*) Carraway  throws lavish parties at his mansion in West Egg in the hopes of meeting Daisy Buchanan. For 10 points, name this American author of The Great Gatsby.
F. Scott Fitzgerald [Francis Scott Key Fitzgerald] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155407-)
This character appears in the story “Slight Rebellion off Madison,” where he asks Sally Hayes to run away to the woods with him. A prized possession of this character is his brother Allie’s baseball mitt, which has poems written all over it. He frequently thinks of his roommate(*) Stradlater with his love interest, Jane Gallagher. This character wonders where the ducks in Central Park go during the winter, and he spends time with his sister Phoebe after skipping Pencey Prep. For 10 points, name this “phony” hating protagonist of J.D. Salinger’s The Catcher in the Rye.
Holden Caulfield [Holden Morrisey Caulfield] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155423-)
In this novel, a literate garbage collector named Zeebo helps the parishioners of a church nicknamed First Purchase perform hymns. As Ms. Maudie’s house burns down, a blanket is draped over the shoulders of this novel’s narrator by a character who hides trinkets in the knothole of a tree. In this novel, Bob Ewell accuses Tom(*) Robinson of raping his daughter Mayella. An attack on Jem and Scout by Ewell is thwarted by “Boo” Radley.  For 10 points, name this Harper Lee novel set in Maycomb County that focuses on Atticus Finch.
To Kill a Mockingbird &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155437-)
A poem by this author describes an object in Tennessee that was “round upon the ground, and tall and of a port in air,” and contrasts that object with a “slovenly wilderness.” In another poem, this man chastises the “thin men of Haddam” for imagining golden birds instead of seeing the title animal, which was the only thing moving “among twenty snowy mountains.” This author of (*)“Anecdote of the Jar” began a poem by declaring “Call the roller of big cigars.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird” and “The Emperor of Ice Cream.”
Wallace Stevens &lt;Wenzer Qin&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155451-)
The protagonist of this novel picks up a horned turtle whose shell was clipped by a truck while it was crossing a highway. Before he dies, a character in this novel is given “soothin’ syrup” to convince him to leave his home. Connie Rivers leaves his wife in this novel, who(*) breastfeeds a starving man. In this novel, the former preacher Jim Casy is killed during a strike. The central family of this novel includes Rose of Sharon and Tom. For 10 points, name this John Steinbeck novel where the Joad family travels from Oklahoma to California during the Great Depression.
The Grapes of Wrath &lt;Sherry Xie&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155468-)
In a play by this author, a low-flying plane repeatedly interrupts the conversation of Nancy and Charlie, who explain concepts like love and evolution to the humanoid lizards Leslie and Sarah. This author of Seascape also wrote a play in which Jerry impales himself on a knife held by Peter near a bench at Central Park. In a play by this author of Zoo Story, a main character is informed that his imaginary(*) son died after swerving to avoid a porcupine. In that play by this author, Nick and Honey play “Get the Guest” at George and Martha’s house. For 10 points, name this American playwright of Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee [Edward Franklin Albee III] &lt;Amanda Sun&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155481-)
The speaker of a poem by this author declares “White Godiva, I unpeel dead hands, dead stringencies” in the title poem of a posthumously published collection. This poet declared that “out of the ash, I rise with my red hair, and eat men like air” in one poem. In a different poem, this poet of (*)Ariel says that “every woman adores a Fascist” before declaring “you bastard, I’m through.” This poet wrote about a “man in black with a Meinkampf look” in a poem based on her relationship with her father Otto. For 10 points, name this American poet of “Lady Lazarus” and “Daddy.”
Sylvia Plath &lt;Sherry Xie&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155496-)
In a novel by this author, the abusive husband Buck Scales is hanged in a New Mexico town where Jean Marie Latour and Joseph Vaillant attempt to restore Catholicism. In a novel by this author, Frank Shabata shoots his wife Marie and her lover Emil in an orchard. This author of Death Comes for the(*) Archbishop wrote about Alexandra Bergson marrying Carl Linson in O Pioneers! A novel by this author details Jim Burden’s relationship with the title Bohemian peasant in her home state of Nebraska. For 10 points, name this American author of My Antonia.
Willa Cather [Wilella Sibert Cather] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155507-)
The protagonist of a novel by this man runs the Wellspring Methodist Church and has an affair with his secretary, Hettie Bowler. The title character of a novel by this author is an engineer who sells the Revelation Motor Company. This author of Elmer Gantry and Dodsworth set most of his novels in the fictional town of (*) Zenith and wrote about the doctor Martin Arrowsmith, whose wife Leora dies after contracting the plague. For 10 points, name this American author of Babbitt, who created Carol Kennicott in Main Street.
Sinclair Lewis [Harry Sinclair Lewis] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155529-)
A poem about a memorial to soldiers that served in this war describes how a “Sahara of snow” surrounds a monument with an “angry wrenlike vigilance.” A poem set during this war is about a woman who declares “shoot if you must this old grey head, but spare your country’s flag” while opposing a(*) general’s march. Robert Lowell memorialized a unit that fought in this war in a poem about the Robert Gould Shaw memorial. Henry Fleming fights in this war in The Red Badge of Courage. For 10 points, name this war where Whittier’s “Barbara Frietchie” opposes “Stonewall” Jackson’s March to Antietam.
The American Civil War [or the War Between the States; or any of the numerous names for the Civil War; or any answer that indicates the North and South are fighting each other] &lt;Jacob O’Rourke&gt;
2

155537-)
In one of this author’s plays, Marco stabs Eddie Carbone for reporting Marco and Rodolpho as illegal immigrants. In a play by this author, a character steals Bill Oliver’s fountain pen after catching his father having an affair in Boston. This author of A View from the Bridge wrote about a group of (*)girls, who are led by Abigail Putnam, accusing multiple people in Salem of witchcraft. This author’s most famous play ends with Willy Loman crashing his car to give his sons’ the life insurance money.  For 10 points, name this author of The Crucible and Death of a Salesman.
Arthur Miller [Arthur Asher Miller] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155553-)
In a novel by this author, Merton Densher and Kate Croy attempt to swindle the ill heiress Milly Theale. This author created Lambert Strether, who is sent to bring Chad Newsome home. The title character of a novella by this author dies after going to the(*) Colosseum with Giovanelli and catching malaria. A novella by this author of The Wings of the Dove and The Ambassadors centers on Miles and Flora being haunted by the ghosts of Miss Jessel and Peter Quint. For 10 points, name this American author of Daisy Miller and The Turn of the Screw.
Henry James &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155563-)
A depressing poem by this man asks to “pack up the moon and dismantle the sun.” That poem by this author memorializes a man who is described as “my working week and my Sunday rest.” He began his poem inspired by a(*) Brueghel (“BRAY-gull”) painting by stating that “about suffering they were never wrong, the old Masters.” This author asks to “stop all the clocks!” at the beginning of “Funeral Blues,” and he reacted to the start of World War II in a poem whose speaker states that “I sit in one of the dives on fifty-second street.” For 10 points, name this author of “Musee des Beaux Arts” and “September 1, 1939.”
W.H. Auden [Wystan Hugh Auden] &lt;Amanda Sun&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155569-)
An Easter sermon in this novel is delivered by the visiting Reverend Shegog. A narrator of this novel was castrated after he attacked a group of girls when a gate was left open by the maid Dilsey. The narrator of the second section of this novel drowns himself in the Charles River. The central family of this novel includes the beloved sister Caddy, the Harvard student(*) Quentin, and the mentally handicapped Benji. For 10 points, name this novel that centers on the Compson family, which was written by William Faulkner.
The Sound and the Fury &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155580-)
The speaker of a poem by this author proclaims “One luminary clock against the sky, proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right.” This author of “Acquainted with the Night” wrote a poem that begins by declaring “this land was ours before we were the land’s.” That poem by this author, “The Gift Outright”, was recited by him at John F. Kennedy’s inauguration. The last stanza of a poem by this man declares “But I have promises to keep, and(*) miles to go before I sleep.” This author described “two roads [that] diverged in a yellow road.” For 10 points, name this author of “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening” and “The Road Not Taken.”
Robert Frost [Robert Lee Frost] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155592-)
In this novel, the meaning of “tomorrow” is told to the protagonist by Ricky. In a part of this novel, the main characters see a performance by the blind jazz pianist George Shearing. Remi Boncoeur arranges for the protagonist of this novel to get a job as a night watchman. A main character of this novel is nicknamed the “Holy Goof.” This novel was written on a giant(*) scroll over a three week period, and its character of Carlo Marx represents Allen Ginsberg. For 10 points, name this novel by Jack Kerouac featuring Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty.
On the Road &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155612-)
In a story by this author, a Bible salesman named Manley Pointer runs away with Hulga’s prosthetic leg. This author wrote about a bus ride in which Julian’s racist mother has a stroke after offering a penny to a black child. This author of “Good Country People” and “Everything that Rises Must Converge” wrote a story in which the cat(*) Pitty Sing causes Bailey to crash the family car. In that story by this author, the Misfit kills a grandmother after she calls him “son.” For 10 points, name this female Southern author of “A Good Man is Hard to Find.”
Flannery O’Connor &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155619-)
In this poem, the mischievous Pau-Puk-Keewis starts the Beggar’s Dance at the protagonist’s wedding. The research of Henry Rowe Schoolcraft was an inspiration for this poem. This poem’s title character slays twelve serpents, which guard the evil magician Pearl-Feather. The mother of this poem’s title character is Wenonah, who was seduced by the dangerous “West-Wind.” This poem is based on Ojibwe (“oh-JEEB-way”) legend and takes place by “the shores of(*) Gitchee Gumee.” For 10 points, name this epic poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow about the lover of Minnehaha.
The Song of Hiawatha &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155627-)
In this poem, a “Smyrna merchant” invites the narrator to take a “weekend at the Metropole” and “to luncheon at the Cannon Street Hotel.” A character in this poem says that “those are pearls that were his eyes” when describing the card of the “drowned Phoenician Sailor.” This poem’s narrator meets Mr. Eugenides (“yoo-JEN-a-deez”) and Madame Sosostris (“soh-SOS-trihs”), and this poem declares “I will show you(*) fear in a handful of dust” in its section “The Burial of the Dead.” This poem begins with the line “April is the cruelest month.” For 10 points, name this modernist poem by T.S. Eliot.
“The Waste Land” &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155630-)
This poet wrote about a man whose “true Penelope was Flaubert” and who seeks to “resuscitate the dead art of poetry.” A poem translated by this man is about a woman who would “come out to meet you as far as Cho-fu-sa.” A two line poem by this author of “Hugh Selwyn Mauberly” states, “the apparition of these faces ,(*) petals on a wet, black bough.” This translator of Li Po and author of “In a Station of the Metro” wrote the “Pisan” section of a collection while he was imprisoned for treason against the Allies. For 10 points, name this American modernist poet of The Cantos.
Ezra Pound [or Ezra Weston Loomis Pound] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155646-)
In this story, an event is conducted by the man who conducts the teen club, the square dances and the Halloween program. An event in this story is conducted by Mr. Summers, and Clyde Dunbar misses it because he has a broken leg. “Corn [will] be heavy soon” if this event is held in June, according to Old Man Warner. This short story is set on June 27th, which is the day that(*) Tessie Hutchinson screams “it isn’t fair” before she is killed. For 10 points, name this short story where a woman is stoned to death by the citizens of her village, which was written by Shirley Jackson.
“The Lottery” &lt;Jacob O’Rourke&gt;
2

155658-)
The speaker of a poem by this man commands to “lose thyself” in the place “where rolls the Oregon and hears no sound.” A poem by this author wonders whether “while glow the heavens with the last steps of day,” “dost thou pursue thy solitary way?” A poem by this author instructs the reader to “approach thy grave and lie down to pleasant dreams.” This author of “To a(*) Waterfowl” began a poem by noting “him who in the love of Nature holds communion with her various forms.” For 10 points, name this American poet who wrote a “meditation on death” called “Thanatopsis.”
William Cullen Bryant &lt;Jacob O’Rourke&gt;
2

155674-)
A poem about this man claims that “it breaks his heart that kings must murder still, that all his hours of travail seem yet in vain.” This man was described as “walking at midnight” in that Vachel Lindsay poem. In Spoon River Anthology, Anne Rutledge is described as being “beloved in life of” this man. A poem about this politician mentions a(*) “drooping star in the west.” This politician’s death inspired an elegy that declares “the ship has weather'd every rack, the prize we sought is won.” For 10 points, name this American president, who was the dedicatee of Walt Whitman’s O Captain! My Captain!
Abraham Lincoln &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155687-)
In a novel by this author, the Seven Days avenge murders by killing the murderers in the same way as their victims. A protagonist created by this author received his nickname because his mother nursed him for six years and is named “Milkman” Dead. In a novel by this author of Song of Solomon, no marigolds grow in 1941 after the protagonist is impregnated by her father Cholly. This author created Pecola Breedlove, who yearns for the title facial feature. In a novel by this author of The Bluest Eye,(*) Sethe (“seth-uh”) kills the title character to protect her from slavery. For 10 points, name this African-American author of Beloved.
Toni Morrison [Chloe Anthony Wofford] &lt;Jacob O’Rourke&gt; Bonuses
2

155709-)
The life of a poet from this city is depicted with paper-cut puppets in No Blue Memories; that play is by two other poets from this city, Nate Marshall and Eve Ewing. A poet from this city wondered whether a dream could “sing an aria down these rooms” in a poem that ends “We think of lukewarm water, hope to get in it.” Another poet depicted this city “with lifted head singing so proud to be alive” in a section that begins, “They tell me you are wicked and I believe them.” This city’s Bronzeville neighborhood is the setting of Annie Allen by Gwendolyn Brooks. The first poem from a collection about this city describes it as a “Player with Railroads and the Nation’s Freight Handler.” For 10 points, name this city described as “Hog Butcher of the World” and “City of the Big Shoulders” by Carl Sandburg.
Chicago, Illinois &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Shan Kothari&gt; 2018 National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 1 – Bonuses
7

155718-)
A piece in this genre by this man sets out to prove the “sore conflict with those terrible and amazing views and apprehensions.” Compositions by this author in this genre usually begin with an apropos quote such as “And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly.” Thematically typical titles of this man’s work in this genre include “The Wicked Useful in Their Destruction Only” and “Wrath to the Uttermost.” One of this man’s writings in this genre was addressed to “you that are here present, that yet remain in an unregenerate state.” That 1741 piece by this man in this genre discusses being held “over the pit of hell, much as one holds a spider” and discusses the passage “Their foot shall slide in due time.” For 10 points, name this rhetorical genre and author of “Sinners in the Hands of an Angry God.”
sermons by Jonathan Edwards &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155733-)
This poet wrote “I go where I belong, inexorably, / as the rain that has lain long” in a poem that contains the lines “the harvester sharpens his steel on the stone; / but this is not our field.” Another of her poems begins: “An incident here and there, / and rails gone (for guns) / from your (and my) old town square.” A poem by this writer asks the sea to “hurl your green over us” and “cover us with your pools of fir,” commanding it to “whirl up.” This author wrote the memoirs Advent and Writing on the Wall about her experiences in therapy with the subject of her poem The Master, Sigmund Freud. This poet wrote “Oread” and a Trilogy containing The Walls Do Not Fall and The Flowering of the Rod. For 10 points, name this bisexual Imagist who usually published under her initials.
H.D. [or Hilda Doolittle; or H. D. Imagiste] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155745-)
After losing her virginity by a stream, a character in this novel decides she has no interest in sex and goes to buy herself cigarettes and ice cream. That character earlier hid in a bush to listen to Mozart playing on a rich family’s radio through the window. The would-be pageant star “Baby” accidentally gets shot by a young boy in this novel. A black doctor in this novel has trouble convincing his townspeople of Marxism without offending them with Marx’s critique of religion; that doctor has a troubled alliance with the alcoholic labor provocateur Jake Blount, and is named Benedict Mady Copeland. In this novel, townspeople are surprised when a much-beloved man shoots himself after Spiro Antonopoulos dies. For 10 points, name this novel about Mick Kelly and the deaf-mute John Singer, by Carson McCullers.
The Heart is a Lonely Hunter  &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155747-)
At dinner with his friend William Castel, this man became agitated upon seeing a vision of a fire encroaching upon his home three hundred miles away, a report validated by a messenger days later. Immanuel Kant mocked this thinker as a “spook hunter” in his Dreams of a Spirit-Seer, despite having praised his eight-volume magnum opus three years earlier. This theologian’s doctrines inspired Helen Keller’s Light in My Darkness. He elaborated on his doctrine of correspondence between things in the physical and spiritual world in his Heavenly Secrets. Johnny Appleseed was a missionary for the New Church inspired by this theologian. True Christian Religion and Heaven and Hell were written by, for 10 points, what mystical theologian from Stockholm?
Emanuel Swedenborg &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Christian/Bible Religion and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

155757-)
A journalist with this surname imagined a “macabre parlor game” in which she invented a series of alphabetically named characters with varied personalities in her essay “Who Goes Nazi?” That “First Lady of American Journalism” with this surname, the second wife of Sinclair Lewis, had the first name Dorothy. A writer with this surname wrote about a man who asks the narrator to throw a toaster into his bathtub at the climax of the song “White Rabbit”; that narrator later recalls that “we were riding the crest of a high and beautiful wave” while lamenting the end of the 1960s counterculture. That author with this surname wrote “The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved” and a book about Raoul Duke and Dr. Gonzo’s drug-laced trip to Nevada. For 10 points, give this surname of Hunter, the author of Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.
Thompson [or Dorothy Celene Thompson; or Hunter Stockton Thompson] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

155772-)
The speaker of this poem finds “the start of populous states and rich republics” in a slave, saying that “before the war I often go to the slave-mart and watch the sale.” This poem says “I see my soul reflected in Nature as I see through a mist” after telling women “be not ashamed” of the “bath of birth, this the merge of small and large, and the outlet again.” The ninth section of this poem includes “Eyes, eye-fringes, iris of the eye, eyebrows” in an extensive list of anatomical parts. This poem, which ends “I say now these are the soul,” added a new technological word to its first line an title in the 1867 revision of Leaves of Grass. For 10 points, name this Walt Whitman poem which discusses human forms.
“I Sing the Body Electric” &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt; 2018 National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 4 – Bonuses
7

155776-)
A poem by this author describes “praising a forehead called the moon, singing desire into begin” and notes that “septembering arms of year extend less humbly wealth to foe and friend.” That poem describes a person moving “through theys of we, singing each new leaf out of each tree” and moving “through sames of am, through haves of give.” Another poem by this man describes its title location parenthetically as “(with up so floating many bells down)” and notes that “someones married their everyones.” In another poem, this author asks of “Mister Death,” “how do you like your blue-eyed boy?” For 10 points, name this poet of “Buffalo Bill’s,” “my father moved through dooms of love,” and “anyone lived in a pretty how town,” who styled his name in lowercase.
E. E. Cummings [or Edward Estlin Cummings] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155780-)
While in an opium reverie, this story’s narrator sees four drops of ruby-colored liquid fall from nowhere into a goblet of wine. The narrator of this story compares the inscrutability of the title character’s eyes to a passage attributed to Joseph Glanvill, which also serves as the story’s epigraph. A character in this story recites a poem about a crowd of angels who watch a play about a writhing “blood-red thing” that kills everyone else. After the narrator’s second wife, Lady Rowena Trevanion, is struck by fever and dies, life repeatedly returns to and leaves her body until she transforms into the narrator’s first wife, this story’s raven-haired title character. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allan Poe short story that contains “The Conqueror Worm.”
“Ligeia” (lye-JEE-uh) &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

155799-)
In a novel with this language in its title, Bear Bavinsky burns most of his paintings. A “teacher” of this language titles that 2018 novel by Tom Rachman. The author says “good luck” in a “cracked” attempt at this language in a Richard Hugo poetry collection that reflects on the author’s military experiences. Jhumpa Lahiri originally wrote “The Boundary” in this language. A poetic form that originated in this non-English language was used by another author to write the lines “One luminary clock against the sky / Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right” and “I have been one acquainted with the night.” Locals speaking this language populate the predominant settings of Roderick Hudson, A Farewell to Arms, and Catch-22. For 10 points, name this native language spoken by the title character of Mario Puzo’s The Godfather.
Italian language [or Italiano; accept The Italian Teacher] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155820-)
The man who commissions this object asks “can ye smooth out a seam like this?” and says that this object should be made from items that are no longer useful as “I now neither shave, sup, nor pray.” This object, which is described using the Miltonian phrase “fiery dart,” is struck by lightning and set on fire, but the flames are calmly blown out by its owner. As this item is being manufactured, its owner declares “I baptize thee not in the name of the Father but in the name of the devil.” A hickory pole is added to items from a curious leather bag to manufacture this object, which the blacksmith Perth forges after melting horseshoe nails and razors. This item is made with the “true death-temper,” quenched not with water but with the blood of Tashtego, Daggoo, and Queequeg. For 10 points, what weapon is commissioned by the captain of the Pequod and intended to kill Moby-Dick?
Captain Ahab’s harpoon [prompt on harpoon] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155826-)
The novel Against the Grain describes this poet’s “vague and delicious confidences” and discusses his revitalization of fixed forms in his collection Wisdom. This author’s collection The Beautiful Song was based on poems that he sent to his lover Mathilde Mauté (mah-TEELD mo-TAY). A museum near Lille (leel) is dedicated to a historically significant broadcast of one of this man’s poems that begins “the long sobs of autumn violins wound my heart with a monotonous languor.” This poet included the lines “Your soul is a delicate landscape / where roam charming masques and bergamasques (bair-guh-masks)” in a poem describing the effects of “the sad and beautiful moonlight” entitled “Clair de Lune.” For 10 points, name this French poet of poèmes saturniens (po-EM sah-turn-YEN) who was a lover of Arthur Rimbaud (ram-BOH).
Paul Verlaine (vair-LEN) &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

155831-)
A man whose name references this country may or may not know that Carl may or may not have slept with his daughter or wife in a Robert Coover story. A person from this non-Dutch country swaggers into a saloon and assaults a gambler for not celebrating his fighting victory over Johnnie. That man with this nationality accuses a cowboy and an Easterner of wanting to murder him at the establishment owned by Scully in Fort Romper, Nebraska. In another story, Mrs. Bell hosts a man from this country in Hirsch’s boarding house in Summit, Illinois who passively receives Nick Adams’s warning of Max and Al’s intent to murder him. That man from here is the boxer Ole Anderson. For 10 points, name this Scandinavian country suggested by demonymic nicknames of characters in “The Blue Hotel” and “The Killers.”
Sweden [or the Swede; or Swedish] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Joelle Smart&gt;
7

155836-)
Paula Bennett identifies this poem as the “companion” to another poem by the same author which mentions “That awful stranger, Consciousness.” Metaphors in this poem liken “being” to “an ear” and “the heavens” to “a bell.” J. V. Cunningham interpreted this poem as a linear depiction of a “psychotic episode” followed by fainting. This poem posits “some strange race” comprised of the speaker and silence, after describing a drum that “kept beating, beating, till I thought my mind was going numb.” At the end of this poem, the speaker “dropped down, and down, and hit a world, at every plunge, and finished knowing, then-.” For 10 points, name this poem in which the treading of “mourners to and fro” takes place inside an organ belonging to Emily Dickinson.
“I Felt a Funeral, In My Brain” &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155846-)
The appearance of this mythical animal can be approximated when a real creature is infected with the Shope papilloma virus. These creatures can only mate during flashes of lightning, drink whiskey, have a tenor-pitched human-like voice which they use to deceive pursuers, and are the reason why hunters should wear stovepipes around their legs. This animal is physically similar to the Arabic legend of Al-miraj and the Renaissance-era Lepus cornutus and is said to have a top running speed of ninety miles per hour. Douglas Herrick manufactured the first supposed carcass of this animal in Douglas, Wyoming, in 1932. For 10 points, name this animal from American West folklore which is a large rabbit with horns.
jackalope &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Non-Greek/Roman Myth and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155866-)
This character carries around excerpts from Rasputin’s writings, with which he sympathizes. This character professionally models in the nude with a second job engraving tombstones. After his father marries his first mistress, he calls his half-brother his “son.” This character has a relationship with Roswitha before she is killed in the war, and joins a troupe of performing dwarves who entertain soldiers. This character breaks his vow to never play again to found the Rhine River Three jazz band, and he is born with full adult mental capacity. After his father announces this character will become a grocer, he decides he will never grow up. For 10 points, name this character with a scream that can shatter glass, the protagonist of The Tin Drum by Günter Grass.
Oskar Matzerath [prompt on Matzerath] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155870-)
This poet declared that, “The Greeks did naught but play the fools and lie. Let Greeks be Greeks.” This poet concluded “Farewell, dear mother; Parliament, prevail, And in a while you’ll tell another tale” in a poem presented as an exchange between two geographic places. After a personal tragedy, this poet wrote about a place “high erect; Framed by that mighty Architect, With glory richly furnished.” This author wrote the line “If ever two were one, then surely we” and addressed another poem to “thou ill-formed offspring of my feeble brain.” This poet of “A Dialogue between Old England and New” and “Verses upon the Burning of our House” addressed her output in “The Author to Her Book.” For 10 points, name this Puritan poet whose poems were collected in The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America.
Anne Bradstreet &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155876-)
In a 1981 German film, this condition motivates Detlef and Christiane F. to frequent the Bahnhof Zoo train station. A man who adopts his deceased best friend’s mantra “Accept the good,” who is played by Benicio del Toro, has this condition in the film Things We Lost in the Fire. In Bad Education, Juan is revealed to have exploited Ignacio’s suffering from this condition in order to murder Ignacio. As a result of this condition in another film, Marion goes to work for Big Tim and Harry Goldfarb’s arm is amputated. Allison, who has this condition, notices that her daughter Dawn has died, while Mark Renton tries to overcome this condition in Edinburgh (EDD-in-burr-uh), in a 1996 Danny Boyle film. For 10 points, identify this condition that is the subject of Requiem for a Dream and Trainspotting.
heroin addiction [prompt on drug addiction; prompt on opiate addiction; prompt on addiction] &lt;The above question is for the category Arts Film and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155881-)
In a novel by this author, a group of criminals including Jacky Blue Note, Hamburger Mary, and Sammy the Butcher are pursued by Inspector Lee. This author produced several novels out of a “word hoard” and incorporated a technique he learned from painter Brion Gysin called “cut-up.” In 1978, this man published a series of essays explaining why he left the Church of Scientology entitled Ali’s Smile. He described the search for the drug Yage in the sequel to a memoir about his rehab at a prison farm in Lexington, Kentucky. This author of Nova Express, Queer, and Junkie introduced Islam Inc. in a novel that focuses on Black Meat proprietors and liquefactionists in Interzone. For 10 points, name this person who appears as “Old Bull Lee” in Jack Kerouac’s On the Road and wrote Naked Lunch.
William S. Burroughs [William Seward Burroughs] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155913-)
An activity in this play is described as “the refuge we take when the unreality of the world weighs too heavy on our tiny heads.” A character in this play tells another about a schoolmate of his who accidentally killed both his parents and describes a telegram which mentioned that someone “swerved, to avoid a porcupine” before a car accident. After a few drinks, a character in this play threatens another with a gun, which fires only an umbrella. At the end of this play, a main character reveals that he “killed” off his fictitious son because his wife broke their rule and mentioned him to others. For 10 points, name this play about the couples Honey and Nick meeting Martha and George, by Edward Albee.
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155918-)
In a story from this collection, Sugar McNutts falls off his chair laughing at a story his teacher makes up about Benvenuto Cellini. In another story from this collection, a young boy stares into the face of Christ after nipping his heel on a piece of glass which a priest had broken from a bell-tower window. In that story from this book, Reverend Hartmann shows a newspaper employee his bleeding fist with which he had punched a window with “the strength of god” after seeing a naked Kate Swift praying. In another story, Swift falls in love with her former pupil George Willard, who is told many stories working for title town’s newspaper in this book. For 10 points, “The Book of the Grotesque” and “Hands” are found in what collection, set in a small town by Sherwood Anderson?
Winesburg, Ohio &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

155929-)
This question, which appears at the conclusion to Chapter 9 of a novel, is prefigured midway through the book by similar questions in a sequence, including “Why do they live at all?” This question is asked after a man says “Now I want you to tell me just one thing more.” After answering this question “at once, immediately,” a man sits “panting in the cold air, the iron New England dark.” The person who answers this question is possibly spurred by it to end his freshman year at Harvard by a suicidal jump into the Charles River. This question is asked by the Canadian roommate “Shreve” McCannon in response to the sordid tale of Thomas Sutpen, and it prompts the repeated thought “I don’t, I don’t.” For 10 points, what question, asked in the last paragraph of Absalom, Absalom, causes Quentin Compson to re-evaluate his home region?
“Why do you hate the South?” &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155978-)
Maya Deren’s anthropological studies of possession and ritual dancing in this country were turned into the book and film Divine Horsemen. Zora Neale Hurston wrote a case study of a woman named Felicia Felix-Mentor in the third part of Tell My Horse, which is about a religion from this country. The book AIDS and Accusation considers whether racism contributed to the idea that HIV arrived to the United States from this country; that book’s author, Paul Farmer, helped set up its Zanmi Lasante hospital. In The Serpent and the Rainbow, Wade Davis speculated that bokors in this country used Datura and tetrodotoxin to turn people such as Clairvius Narcisse into zombies. For 10 points, name this country where loa are venerated in Voodoo.
Haiti &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Anthropology and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

155979-)
A contemporary critic of this play, Georg Brandes, said that it may or may not have been its author’s greatest work, but it was certainly his noblest deed. A character in this play says: “It is the very mark of the spirit of rebellion to crave for happiness in this life. What right have we human beings to happiness?” A character in this play repeatedly injects French phrases into her speaking, prompting her father to ask “is that English?” After two lovers in this drama learn they are half-siblings, one of them begs the other to kill him by morphine overdose. In this play, the aging widow Helene reveals that she only wants to found an orphanage to deplete her husband’s wealth so her son Oswald won’t inherit anything. For 10 points, name this play about Pastor Manders, the Egerstrands, and the Alvings, by Henrik Ibsen.
Ghosts [or Gengangere] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155991-)
In the last novel to feature this character, he marries the wealthy Linda Loring and lives in a mansion in the resort town of Poodle Springs. At the end of another novel, this character recognizes that a Mexican man is actually his old acquaintance Terry Lennox, who underwent plastic surgery. In the first novel featuring this character, General Sternwood requests that he stop his daughter’s blackmailer. Some editions of the collection The Simple Art of Murder change the names of the stories’ protagonists to feature this character. This man’s office is on Hollywood Boulevard, according to the book Farewell, My Lovely. For 10 points, name this protagonist of such novels as The Long Goodbye and The Big Sleep, who is a Raymond Chandler-created private detective.
Philip Marlowe [or Marlowe] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Mike Cheyne&gt;
7

155996-)
This poet’s extensive two-volume biography of John Keats, which is detailed enough to include a daily chronology of Keats’s life, was said by Winfield Townley Scott to have been such an exhausting project that it “certainly killed” her. This poet wrote the line “For the man who should loose me is dead, Fighting with the Duke in Flanders” in a poem that begins “I walk down the garden paths.” This poet demonstrated her “polyphonic prose” in Can Grande’s Castle. She imitated an earlier family member by writing A Critical Fable. She met Ezra Pound and changed her style shortly after completing A Dome of Many-Coloured Glass. For 10 points, name this American poet who became the leader of the Imagists.
Amy Lowell [prompt on Lowell] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

156022-)
A preacher in this play recounts a dream about meeting three candle-holding hobos who were on their way from Nazareth to Jerusalem. A character in this play quotes a blues song by Skip James when discussing his plan to become a cotton farmer. Some people in this play believe that suspicious deaths are caused by the “Ghosts of the Yellow Dog,” spirits of men killed when a boxcar was set on fire. This play starts with the arrival of a truck full of watermelons driven by Lymon and Boy Willie to Doaker’s house in Pittsburgh. It ends when the title object is used to exorcise the ghost of Sutter, a dead slaveowner who tormented the Charles family. For 10 points, name this play from the Pittsburgh Cycle by August Wilson about a failed attempt to sell a musical instrument.
The Piano Lesson &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

156033-)
This author used the pen name Flora Fairfield to publish “The Rival Painters.” Her story of Rosamond Vivian’s isolation, A Long Fatal Love Chase, wasn’t published until 1995. In one of her books, Tommy Bangs hires Nat Blake to sell eggs; Nat is a student at Plumfield, a school run by the Bhaer family. In another of her novels, she writes about a group of characters who create the Pickwick Club. That same novel details how the Laurences allow Beth to learn the piano; the book ends after the death of Beth, who is remembered by the rest of the March family. For 10 points, name this author of Little Men and Little Women.
Louisa May Alcott &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Fred Morlan&gt;
7

156045-)
The narrator of this book describes great success at locating 150 war wagons, after which a visit to Colonel Dunbar’s camp encourages him to switch to providing care packages for soldiers. This book describes the dissolution of John Collins, who becomes an alcoholic and refuses to take his turn at rowing, after which the narrator throws him overboard from a boat. The formation of a mutual defense “Junto” is discussed in this book, which is addressed to the author’s son William, the governor of New Jersey. Its protagonist leaves his brother James’s New England Courant and later purchases the Pennsylvania Gazette as part of his printing business. For 10 points, name this life story which includes the foundation of the University of Pennsylvania.
The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt; 2018 National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 17 – Bonuses
7

156049-)
In a story by this author, highwaymen kill Count von Altenburg, which leads Herman von Starkenfaust to pretend to be a ghost in order to avoid delivering the news to Baron von Landshort’s daughter. A grove of trees inscribed with the names of important men in colonial Massachusetts is being chopped down by a lumberjack in another story by this man, which escalates after a heart and liver are found in an apron and a man agrees to become a usurer. This author of “The Spectre Bridegroom” and “The Devil and Tom Walker” also described a man who encounters the ghosts of Henry Hudson’s crew playing nine-pins alongside his dog Wolf, and the rivalry for Katrina’s hand between Brom Bones and Ichabod Crane. For 10 points, name this writer of “Rip van Winkle” and “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.”
Washington Irving &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

156073-)
A character in this novel begins to act out resentments toward her husband by spitting in his glass and threatening to use her friend’s urine the next time. Near the end of this novel, Adam undergoes a circumcision and scarring ritual in solidarity with the native African girl Tashi. A character in this novel has to spend twelve years working as a maid for the mayor after responding “hell no” to Miss Millie. Characters in this novel make a quilt out of curtains torn apart during a fight between Sofia and Harpo. The missionaries Samuel and Corinne adopt the children that Alphonso fathers in this novel, during which Nettie’s survival becomes apparent to a woman who is fascinated with Shug Avery. For 10 points, name this epistolary novel about Celie’s unhappy childhood and marriage, written by Alice Walker.
The Color Purple &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

156086-)
This man designs a trap for the King of the Ravens, who is forced to watch corn grow but ultimately killed by this man’s rival, the inventor of dice games Pau-Puk-Keewis. This character uses a magic canoe that moves without paddles but does get stuck on a sandbar until Kwasind assists. This character is told by a woodpecker that he can fire arrows directly at the top of Pearl-Feather’s head. This conqueror of the fish-god Mishe-Nahma invents reading and writing after he is born to the west wind Mudjekeewis and Wenonah, the daughter of Nokomis, near “Gitchee Gumee” or Lake Superior. For 10 points, name this husband of Minnehaha and protagonist of a “song” by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
Hiawatha &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

156103-)
A poem by James D. Corrother describes a competition with this man while they “wiz a-hoein’ in de co’n.” In a patriotic poem, this writer praises “those noble sons of Ham” “who fought for Uncle Sam!” This writer took out a loan to publish his first collection Oak and Ivy whose shorter second section is composed of dialect poems. Some critics have argued that this author expressed frustration with his white patrons in a poem describing how “with torn and bleeding hearts we smile.” This poet described a motive in one of his poems as “a plea, that upward to Heaven he flings–” and a line from that poem, Sympathy was used as the title of Maya Angelou’s I Know Why The Caged Bird Sings. For 10 points, name this African-American poet of “We Wear the Mask.”
Paul Laurence Dunbar &lt;The above question is for the category Literature American and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

156109-)
1. The biography Wrapped in Rainbows describes how this author pretended, at age 26, to be a teenager so she could get a free high school education. In an autobiographical essay, this author said her life offered no “extenuating circumstances” except that her “grandfather on the mother’s side was not an Indian chief.” An essay imagines waking up in this author’s hometown and planting a marker in the ground designating this author (*) “A Genius of the South.” This author was given a Guggenheim Grant to study Jamaica and Haiti, providing material for her book Tell My Horse. The attempt to find the unmarked grave of this Eatonville-born author of “How it Feels to be Colored Me” was described in an essay about “Looking for” her by Alice Walker. For 10 points, name this anthropologist who studied under Franz Boas, who also created Janie Crawford in Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Zora Neale Hurston [prompt on “Looking for Zora”] &lt;WA, Authors/Bios&gt;
8

156112-)
These things are used to describe the life of a three-legged salesman in Mark Dunn’s Ibid. In a novel, one of these things describes an author who obsessively watches [Jurassic Park] “like a porno flick,” while another relates a fear that a toilet’s super-powerful suction will be used by a Hotel Manager for assassination. Some of these things were used to introduce the spoiled teenager Mona and the exacting tablemate Trudy. In another novel, these texts describe an escape via tunnel while notably neglecting the death of (*) Hazel. To “make the primary text an easier read,” David Foster Wallace prolifically used these things within his essays. In a novel, the assassin Jakob Gradus is described in examples of these things written by a man who believes he is the escaped King of Zembla. For 10 points, identify these texts exemplified by Charles Kinbote’s obsessive commentary on Shade’s Pale Fire.
footnotes [or endnotes, prompt on note or annotation] &lt;JC, Short Fiction&gt;
8

156114-)
6. A family in this book count themselves lucky for never having to open the pages for gonorrhea or syphilis in their used up copy of Dr. Gunn’s Family Medicine. A short chapter in this novel discusses the life of Olive, a woman loosely based on the author’s mother, who sold so many liberty bonds during World War I that she received a free airplane ride. A woman in this novel drowns herself by forcibly holding her head down in a shallow pond, shortly after contracting syphilis from her wooden (*) legged husband. After being severely beaten, a woman who had earlier faked her death with chicken blood arrives at the doorstep of a farmhouse in Salinas Valley in this novel. That character, Cathy Ames, runs away to work at Madam Faye's brothel after giving birth to Caleb and Aron. For 10 points, name this retelling of the Cain and Abel story based on three generations of the Trask family, a novel by John Steinbeck.
East of Eden &lt;SB, LongFic&gt;
8

156125-)
17. A poem about this sport begins with the exclamation “Hallelujah! It works. We blew the shit out of them” and ends with the speaker asking a lover to “come over here and kiss me on the mouth.” This sport, which titles a Harold Pinter poem, is also the sport of choice of Herb Wallagher, who stops playing it after becoming paralyzed following a waterskiing accident in Richard Ford’s The Sportswriter. A former player of this sport named Roberta (*) Muldoon becomes a bodyguard for Jenny Fields after transitioning genders in A World According to Garp. Taft Robinson and Gary Harkness play this sport for Logos College in a Don Delillo novel tangentially named for it. For 10 points, name the sport that is focused on in the novel, End Zone.
American football [or gridiron football; prompt on football] &lt;SB, Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
8

156140-)
8. In the first conversation in T. S. Eliot’s “Portrait of a Lady,” it is remarked that this man’s soul “should be resurrected only among friends.” An autobiographical novel depicts this man and his family staying in the charterhouse of Valdemossa, hoping his tuberculosis would improve. His letters recount a failed engagement to a woman named Maria, after which he traveled to London with Camille Pleyel. A Cyprian Norwid poem depicts an incident in which an object owned by this man was thrown out of a window in (*) January 1863. A vacation with this man is recounted in the novel Winter in Majorca. Amusingly, a work by this non-Wagner musician is performed by Mademoiselle Reisz in a novel by an American author who surname is spelled the same way, and who also wrote “Desiree’s Baby.” For 10 points, name this musically talented lover of George Sand, a native of Poland.
Frederic Chopin &lt;WA, HistInLit&gt;
8

156151-)
19. Convinced that nobility were descended from Trojans, this author portrayed the latter as malevolent in such works as Letter of Othea to Hector. A book by this author opens with a frame tale in which the autobiographical protagonist goes to dinner after seeing a copy of Matheolus’s Lamentations. The spirits that inspired the completion of this author’s first book supposedly harassed this author into writing the education manual The Book of the Three Virtues. This author criticized mischaracterizations in such works as (*) Ovid’s Art of Love and Jean de Meun’s Romance of the Rose in a vernacular French book in which Reason, Rectitude, and Justice tell her to fight prejudice and build the title structure from the blocks of other famous women. For 10 points, name this author of The Book of the City of Ladies.
Christine de Pisan [or Christine de Pizan] &lt;WA, Authors/Bios&gt;
8

156154-)
22. In an autobiographical novel, this author wrote about how he used an axe to try to kill a girl who wouldn’t show him her journals when he was five years old. This author wrote one novel in a room surrounded by reproductions of the Isenheim Altarpiece. A hunchbacked dwarf plays chess at the Stars of Heaven bar and frequents the Theresianum pawn shop in one of his novels. This author created a character who takes interest in a small boy after he learns about their mutual interest in Chinese (*) literature. In that novel, the housekeeper, Therese, conspires with Benedikt Pfaff to remove a man who has imaginary conversations with Confucius from his own house. The protagonist of that novel takes routine walks around neighborhood bookstores so he won’t add any more books to his 25,000 amount collection, which he later burns down. For 10 points name this creator of the sinologist Peter Kiene in Auto-da-Fé.
Elias Canetti &lt;SB, LongFic&gt;
8

156156-)
24. After moving to this city, Alfred Chester fell in love with a fisherman and dedicated his novel The Exquisite Corpse to him. In a setting inspired by this real-life city, a conversation about the import of whale detritus to be used as a sexual lubricant takes place between Marv and Leif the Unlucky. While living in this city, a writer got extremely high in order to write a death scene set in a French prison in which typhoid claims the life of Port Moresby. The author of (*) The Sheltering Sky, Paul Bowles, lived in this city for five decades. In a setting inspired by this real-life city, the narrator visits the “Merchant of Sex” A. J. and is employed by Islam Incorporated. This city’s International Zone inspired Interzone, the setting of Naked Lunch. For 10 points, William S. Burroughs lived for four years in what Moroccan city?
Tangiers [or Tanjah; prompt on Interzone by asking “what real-life city is the basis of Interzone?”] &lt;WA, Literary Legacy&gt;
8

156158-)
2. A section of a poem titled for this word ends by imagining the “silken skilled transmemberment of song” before saying “Permit me” [this word] “love, into your hands….” This word titles a poem dedicated to Maxime du Camp that describes a “child obsessed with maps and engravings.” The second section of a poem titled for this word opens discussing “the great wink of eternity.” This is the [emphasize] last title word of a French poem that inspired an Henri Matisse painting, and which asks “My child, my sister” to “think of the rapture” and (*) accompany the speaker to a place with “luxury, peace, and pleasure” or “luxe, calme et volupté” [loox kahlm ay voh-loop-TAY]. This word titles a series of six poems inspired by love for the Danish sailor Emil Opffer, all placed in the collection White Buildings by Hart Crane. For 10 points, The Flowers of Evil contains a poetic “Invitation” to what kind of journey?
voyage [accept Voyages or “Then Voyage” or “Invitation to the Voyage” or “L’invitation au voyage;” accept “Permit me, love, voyage into your hands;” prompt on loose synonyms such as journey or trip, asking for the French language equivalent] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156164-)
8. This story twice refers to the priest Jonas Ramus, who is the source of “the anecdotes of the whales and the bears.” The translations of this story by Maurice Blanchot and Charles Baudelaire both omit the diaeresis in its title. A speaker in this story recalls how an “old school-master of the district” taught him the meaning of the words “cylinder” and “sphere.” This story’s epigraph, which states that the works of God “have a depth in them greater than the well of Democritus,” is altered from an essay by Joseph Glanville. Its central encounter, which causes a man’s (*) “raven-black” hair to turn white, takes place between Lofoden and Moske, where a man loses his brother but lashes himself to a water-cask, survives a series of gyrations, and is picked up by a boat. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allen Poe story in which a Norwegian sails into the title storm.
“A Descent into the Maelström” &lt;WA, Short Fiction&gt;
8

156166-)
10. When asked if she acted in any movies, a character in this play responds that she declined many offers because “cinema is a shallow art” since it has no fourth dimension. This play’s main conflict is inspired by the “Great Drumsheugh Case” described in William Roughead’s book Bad Companions. Some schoolgirls in this play secretly pass around a copy of Théophile Gautier’s novel Mademoiselle de Maupin between themselves. A girl in this play overhears a conversation in which a woman is accused of being jealous of (*) Dr. Joe Cardin. Towards this play’s end, a woman confesses to another that she has loved her “the way they said” and commits suicide after acknowledging that Mary Tilford’s rumor about her may have been true. For 10 points, name this play about the purported lesbian relationship between the teachers Karen and Martha, written by Lillian Hellman.
The Children's Hour  &lt;SB, Drama&gt;
8

156169-)
13. In a novel set during this war, the narrator remembers playing Big Bear and Little Bear with his father; that narrator observes the spectacle of a man who is publicly shaved, then beheaded. In a novel set during this war, the Pulitzer Prize-winning Darrow and his assistant both have affairs with the photojournalist Helen. This setting of Tatjana Soli’s The Lotus Eaters is also the location of a novel that begins with the line “It was a bad time” and features the deaths of Frenchie Tucker and Bernie Lynn. That novel repeats that the title character has (*) left for “gay Paree.” A spy and veteran of this war is tortured by the “man with no face” and consults about a movie on it in The Sympathizer. This war is also the setting of a novel in which Sarking Aung Wan guides Paul Berlin through a series of tunnels. For 10 points, name this war, the setting of Going After Cacciato by Tim O’Brien.
Vietnam War &lt;JC, LongFic&gt;
8

156173-)
17. This city is the setting of the most notable literary adaptation of the legend of the murder of Horwendil by Feng. This city is the western endpoint of the HH Ferry route, which traverses three nautical miles, and was entirely within one country’s control before the Treaty of Roskilde. Eric of Pomerania constructed a fortress in this city called Krogen in order to effectively collect a fee of one rose-noble from ships travelling through a nearby strait, a duty called the (*) Sound Toll. A work set in this city’s stronghold of Kronborg borrows its material from the third and fourth books of Saxo Grammaticus’s Gesta Danorum and features a man who says “This above all: To thine own be self be true,” and who later says “O, I am Slain!” after being stabbed behind a tapestry. For 10 points, name this Danish city whose castle is the setting of Hamlet.
Elsinore [or Helsingør] &lt;WA, Continental History&gt;
8

156178-)
22. This poet’s lover forced a change of the verb “may” to “can” throughout one work, due to jealousy over an ex named May Bookstaver, a story that is related in Joan Retallack’s essay on “Not Not Reading” this poet. This poet wrote “Full well I know that she is there” to begin a work that claims “I think very well of Susan” and laments “I wish that I had spoken only of it all.” The line “Let me recite what history teaches” ends a work by this poet that asks “Would he like it.” That poem, “If I Told Him,” was a retort to a quip that this author would grow to resemble a (*) portrait. This author described substances like “Glazed Glitter” and “A Carafe [kuh-RAFF], that is a Blind Glass” in a collection divided into “Objects,” “Food,” and “Room.” In the poem “Sacred Emily,” she wrote “Rose is a rose is a rose is a rose.” For 10 points, name this expatriate author of “Tender Buttons” and lover of Alice B. Toklas.
Gertrude Stein &lt;JC, Poetry&gt;
8

156189-)
9. Peter Brooks considered how this non-American author drew on excesses of rhetoric in The Melodramatic Imagination. In a negative review of Cooper’s The Pathfinder, this author noted that Cooper’s use of comedy was “infinitely inferior” to that of Walter Scott, whose “genius” this author often wrote about. The novels of Jane Austen and this author are cited as depictions of capitalist excess in Capital in the Twenty-First Century. Supposedly, this author died of (*) caffeine poisoning because he drank fifty cups of coffee per day to stay prolific. Both Ferdinand Brunetière and Émile Zola considered this author the first naturalist writer. The magnum opus of this author has a title implying that it is a mundane counterpart to the magnum opus of Dante. For 10 points, name this author who created such characters as Cousin Bette in The Human Comedy.
Honoré de Balzac &lt;WA, Literary Legacy&gt;
8

156190-)
10. In a play named after this object, a man describes praying for his dog to live 200 times, then shooting a cat after the dog dies. A man who finds a buyer for this object describes having a religious revelation where three hobos lead him to a room of sheep-headed people. A man who sells his suit and shoes with promised amatory effects describes giving up a career with this object - that man is Wining Boy. One woman gives a monologue about how Mama Ola rubbed this object until her hands bled. One character aims to exchange this object for (*) land owned by a man killed by the Ghosts of the Yellow Dog. A family’s history is carved into this object, which Boy Willie wants to sell. To exorcise the ghost of the slave owner Sutter, Berenice plays this instrument. For 10 points, name this musical instrument, whose “Lesson” titles an August Wilson play.
the piano from The Piano Lesson &lt;JC, Drama&gt;
8

156195-)
15. A poetic “Prologue” set in one of these places ends when a man proposes “Homo Abyssus Occidentalis,” or “A Curious Case of Cold Feet” as a conversation topic, after which the section “The Seven Ages” begins. Another poem states that “faces” in one of these places “Cling to their average day: / The lights must never go out / The music must always play.” A conversation during World War II between the characters Quant, Rosetta, Malin, and Emble in one of these places opens the long poem (*) “The Age of Anxiety.” A speaker located in one of these places claims “Exiled Thucydides knew” of events that passed, claims to be “uncertain and afraid / as the clever hopes expire,” and states “We must love one another or die.” For 10 points, the speaker of W. H. Auden’s “September 1, 1939” sits in what sort of place, described as “one of the dives / On Fifty-Second Street?”
bars [accept specific types such as dive bars or gay bars; accept dives before “dives”; prompt on less specific answers such as restaurants or eateries] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156197-)
17. A movement named for these things was added to the signature of the author who submitted the poem “Hermes of the Ways.” “It is better to present” one of these things “in a lifetime than to produce a multitude of voluminous works,” according to an essay that defines these things as “that which presents an intellectual and emotional complex.” The first five poems of a movement named for these things were grouped as “The Complete Poetical Works of T. E. Hulme.” An essay articulating a movement named for these things is titled for (*) “a few don’ts.” A literary movement named for these things included the feminist, bisexual author of the Greek-inspired poem “Oread” as well as the author of a two-line poem about “petals on a wet black bough.” For 10 points, name these things which name a modernist poetry movement emphasizing precise articulation, advocated by H. D. and Ezra Pound.
images [accept Imagism] &lt;WA, Essays/Crit&gt;
8

156210-)
6. A different author’s poem “Racing Stars” describes [emphasize] this author composing a poem in which the speaker’s chest is ripped open by a snake, who deposits a “blazing shard of coal” before being called to “burn Man’s heart” with God’s word. This author of “The Prophet” died “with lead in breast and vengeful fire” due to “gossip” according to a poem that opens “The Bard is dead!” That poem about this author is titled (*) “The Death of the Poet.” A narrative poem by this author contrasts the “eternal sleep” of the nature-conquering Peter with a river that “hurls itself” on the city that Peter built. In that poem, a man witnesses the demise of his beloved Parasha in the flood of the Neva before being chased by the title statue. For 10 points, name this author of “The Bronze Horseman.”
Alexander Pushkin (“Racing Stars” is by Vladimir Nabokov.) &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156224-)
20. This character reflects religious women key to Nile fertility rites, according to Elizabeth Drew’s book on “the design of the poetry” of her creator. Grover Smith’s article on this character introduced a myth that she was based on a woman from Ecbatana in Aldous Huxley’s Crome Yellow. She may refer to a da Vinci work by noting “Here is Belladonna, the Lady of the Rocks” and speaks of a “one-eyed (*) merchant” who is later represented as Smyrna native Mr. Eugenides. This character notes “Those are pearls that were his eyes. Look!” about a figure who is later incarnated as the Phoenician Phlebas, the Drowned Sailor. This character is known as the “wisest woman in Europe” and has a “mean pack of cards.” For 10 points, name this “famous clairvoyant” from T. S. Eliot’s “The Waste Land.”
Madame Sosostris [prompt on Madame] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156227-)
23. The first English translation of one of this author’s books came about after Blanche Knopf assumed that that book by this author contained a highbrow sex manual. For their explicit depictions of sexuality, two books by this author became the last to be placed on the Index of Forbidden Books. The thesis of this author’s anti-Freud chapter, “The Psychoanalytic Point of View,” was borrowed by such authors as Kate Millett. The scope of (*) Camille Paglia’s Sexual Personae was directly inspired by the scope taken by this author, whom Paglia credits as a major influence because she was also “raised Catholic,” as illustrated by Memoirs of a Dutiful Daughter. A ménage à trois with this author’s husband and Olga Kosakiewicz was depicted in She Came to Stay. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the title group of French intellectuals in The Mandarins, and who also wrote The Second Sex.
Simone de Beauvoir &lt;WA, Literary Legacy&gt;
8

156229-)
1. Walter Kaufmann’s Tragedy and Philosophy calls this play’s protagonist a “passive anti-hero” in contrast with the “noble hero” Oedipus. Skeletal set designs were used in this play by Jo Mielziner for its premiere at the Morosco Theater. A character in this play remarks that it’s bad to “suffer fifty weeks a year for the sake of a two-week vacation” to justify his preference for farming. Its opening describes a “word-sigh” that might be “Oh boy, oh boy” from a man “past sixty years of age,” as well as a (*) “small and fine” melody that re-appears when a character interested in Alaskan properties enters later. This play’s protagonist considers himself “well-liked,” which is a reason he believes he is better than Bernard, and wants to be rich like his brother Ben. For 10 points, name this play about Willy Loman’s demise by Arthur Miller.
Death of a Salesman &lt;WA, Drama&gt;
8

156239-)
11. In a novel, a chance to play on “I Love Lucy” with Desi Arnaz is awarded to two boys who grow up in this place named Cesar and Nestor. A coming-of-age novel styled as a “biomythography” that depicts the author’s childhood in this place is titled Zami: A New Spelling of My Name. In a third novel set in this place, Dorcas has an affair with the cosmetics salesman Joe Trace. The mixed Danish ancestry of an author who worked in this place reflects the mixed ancestry of Helga Crane in her novel (*) Quicksand. Oscar Hijuelos’ The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love is set in the eastern, “Spanish” part of this place. Jazz by Toni Morrison is set in this place during the 1920s. For 10 points, name this neighborhood home to Nella Larsen, Claude McKay, and Langston Hughes during its namesake “Renaissance.”
Harlem [accept Home to Harlem; prompt on New York or USA or Manhattan] &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
8

156242-)
14. Two of this author’s poems were submitted to Poetry magazine under the fake name “Joel Michael Symington” by the poet David Morton. This author’s first poem, inspired by a film adaptation of A Midsummer Night’s Dream, is titled “The Battle” and was written at age 8. This poet drew from the death of his younger brother Richard to pen the lines “Once upon a time there were two brothers / Then there was only one: myself” in his poem “The History of My Life.” In another poem, this poet compares “the (*) principle that makes works of art so unlike / what the artist intended” to a game of telephone. He quotes Vasari in a poem that describes “the right hand / bigger than the head, thrust at the viewer / and swerving easily away” in a Parmigianino painting. For 10 points name this poet of “Self Portrait in a Convex Mirror.”
John Ashbery &lt;SB, Poetry&gt;
8

156245-)
17. This person’s actions are compared to Jesus’ prophecy that Peter will deny him three times in E. R. Dodds’ essay on “misunderstanding” a work titled for this person. In a novel, certain politicians are compared to this person because they are not criminals, but rather “convinced they had discovered the only road to paradise.” Ola Rotimi adapted the tale of this person into The Gods are Not to Blame. A (*) surgeon loses his reputation after comparing Communists to this person, because they do not foresee consequences of their actions, in The Unbearable Lightness of Being. Carl Jung introduced a female analogue of a concept named for this man, and named it for Electra. Young men desire to kill their father and marry their mother in the “complex” named after, for 10 points, what Greek tragedic hero?
Oedipus [accept Oedipus complex; accept “On Misunderstanding the Oedipus Rex”] &lt;WA, Literary Legacy&gt;
8

156247-)
19. This character asks his love interest to meet him on Thursdays and Sundays, or whenever she is sent to fetch water, so that he can carry the buckets for her. Despite discovering his family tree in an old Bible, this character declines to recover a silver cup from a boy who stole it. This character masters riding the beautiful, but timid, horse Goblin in order to carry out his new job delivering The Observer. He is given a cracked crucible by (*) Dove, causing him to burn his hand while making a silver teapot for John Hancock. This character, who is apprenticed to the smith Ephraim Lapham, takes up the musket of his role model Rab while fighting alongside Josiah Warren. For 10 points, name this protagonist of a young adult novel by Esther Forbes set during the American Revolution.
Johnny Tremain [accept either underlined portion] &lt;WA, HistInLit&gt;
8

156248-)
20. This character gifts a special stove to one girl because she is excluded from the rough games of the other boys at her school. In a novel, this character institutes a rule permitting pillow fights every Saturday night in exchange for the residents’ proper bedtimes every other night. She dresses as Mrs. Malaprop for a New Year’s Eve party and learns German from her future husband while staying at a boarding house in New York. This character owns the pet rat Scrabble and nearly lets her sister (*) drown at an ice skating rink as revenge for burning her manuscript. This character inherits the Plumfield Estate from her aunt and turns it into a school for boys. In the first novel she appears in, this character rejects Laurie’s advances and marries Professor Bhaer instead. For 10 points, name this character from Little Women, the second oldest March sister.
Josephine March [prompt on March] &lt;SB, LongFic&gt;
8

156249-)
21. This book notes that women are allowed to take a new husband by custom if their husband is absent for more than twenty days in a province called Pein. The protagonists of this book visit a southern land called “Mangi” [MAHN-gee] while travelling with the protection of a golden pass historically known as a paiza. Though this book’s narrator remarked “I did not tell half of what I saw, for it would not be believed” on his deathbed, a common name of this book in the narrator’s native tongue supposedly refers to the number of (*) lies it tells. The adventure recounted in this book, which was undertaken by the narrator at age 17 with his uncle Maffeo and father Niccolò, inspired the series of imaginary conversations in Italo Calvino’s novel Invisible Cities. For 10 points, name this book recounting the travels to Khubilai Khan’s court and other exotic locales by Marco Polo.
Il Milione [or The Million or or Book of the Marvels of the World or The Travels of Marco Polo or Description of the World or Livre des Merveilles du Monde] &lt;WA, Historical Sources&gt;
8

156254-)
2. This work implies that a group who “copulated ecstatic and insatiate with a bottle of beer a package of cigarettes a candle” were largely homosexual, in noting that they “lost their loveboys to the three old shrews of fate,” with one of those “shrews” being the “heterosexual dollar.” This work likens “visions,” “dreams,” and “new loves” to wreckage that breaks on “the rocks of Time” after they have “gone down the American river,” and compares Jesus’ laments to jazz in describing an (*) “eli eli lama sabachthani saxophone cry.” This poem’s second section opens mentioning a “sphinx of cement and aluminum” while its first opens mentioning friends who were “starving hysterical naked.” The speaker repeats “I’m with you in Rockland” in, for 10 points, what Beat poem that says “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness?”
“Howl” &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156264-)
12. This essay quotes the lines “a drab of state, a cloth-o-silver slut” from Thomas Middleton’s play, The Revenger’s Tragedy, after criticizing another author’s avoidance of any form of inconvenience. This essay compares one civic duty to “checkers or backgammon, with a slight moral tinge to it.” This essay criticizes the arguments for expediency in a tract by William Paley. This essay, originally delivered as a lecture to the Concord Lyceum, states that “it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be” after claiming that a (*) single man’s decision to cease holding slaves would certainly lead to the abolition of slavery. It begins by affirming the motto “that government is best which governs least” and informs the reader about how the author spent a night in jail after not paying taxes for 6 years. For 10 points, name this essay about resisting government, written by Henry David Thoreau.
“Civil Disobedience” &lt;SB, Essays/Crit&gt;
8

156266-)
14. At the end of his essay “Sun and Steel,” Yukio Mishima inserted a poem titled for this figure that begins by asking, “Do I then, belong to the heavens?” Edward Field wrote a poem that imagines this figure living in the 21st century who “now rides commuter trains / serves on various committees, / And wishes he had drowned.” Brian Greene’s children’s book about a young boy who escapes his space-home to explore a black hole was adapted into a 2010 movie by the film duo AL and AL and is named for [This Figure] at the Edge of (*) Time. The speaker of one poem imagines a man who does not think of this figure’s fall as “an important failure” and notes that “dogs go on with their doggy life.” William Carlos William wrote a poem titled on a painting about this figure created by Pieter Brueghel. For 10 points name this mythological figure who flew too close to the sun, the son of Daedalus.
Icarus &lt;SB, Literary Legacy&gt;
8

156269-)
17. Lionel Trilling read “admiration and envy” into a homoerotic passage by an author with this first name describing “long legs like girls sheathed to the neck” and “beauty of his giant’s body.” In that story by an author with this first name, a former law student commands a peasant woman to roast an animal whose neck he breaks with his boot. A story by an author with this first name notes that Eve gave birth just after her wedding with Adam, much like how a town prostitute gives birth seventeen weeks after marriage. An author with this first name described a man’s initiation into a (*) Cossack troop in “My First Goose.” This is the first name of the author of the author of Red Cavalry, as well as an author who wrote about how the “Spirit of Evil” convinces the title character to put urine in the town’s bread. For 10 points, give this first name of the Yiddish-language author of “Gimpel the Fool.”
Isaac [or Yitzhak; accept Isaac Babel or Isaac Bashevis Singer] &lt;WA, Short Fiction&gt;
8

156271-)
19. The Martinican philosopher Edouard Glissant wrote a book about visiting this author’s home of Rowan Oak. In a speech, this author stated that our tragedy today is “a universal physical fear so long sustained by now that we can even bear it.” The Blotner papers, named for the man who wrote a comprehensive biography of this author, can be found at the Center for [this author’s] Studies at Southeast Missouri State University. Cleanth Brooks wrote three books on this author, two of which are partly titled for a (*) fictional location created by him, whose name is derived from two Chickasaw words meaning “split land.” That county is also where outcasts created by this author, like Joanna Burden and Joe Christmas, as well as the Compson and Bundren families lived. For 10 points, name this creator of Yoknapatawpha [YAWK-nuh-pah-TAW-fuh] County, the author of As I Lay Dying.
William Faulkner &lt;SB, Authors/Bios&gt;
8

156283-)
7. The voice of one of these objects is possessed by a “half-bodied baby” that rises from ashes after it is killed by Tutuola’s palm-wine drinkard and his wife. In a novel named for one of these physical objects, the protagonist is told that Gone with the Wind is a documentary, and her mother slips messages like “America is cruel. Consider kindness” into the linens she delivers. In that work, “the Watchman” yells prophecies during a fire after killing his employers and Paul H. with a machete. Jim and Abby rather notably use one of these devices in (*) Nicholson Baker’s Vox. Clare Savage is killed in a guerilla resistance in Michelle Cliff’s sequel to Abeng named for “No” [one of these objects] “To Heaven.” For 10 points, John O’Hara’s BUtterfield 8 is named after a code used for what devices, which are referenced in the title of Dial M for Murder?
telephones &lt;JC, LongFic&gt;
8

156291-)
15. In one work named after this figure, Marcellus attempts to stab this man in the back but is suddenly unable to, and kills himself in remorse. In that play, this man watches as his wife is poisoned with a peach, and he accumulates followers who chant “Death is dead!” and continually perform the title action. A poem named after this figure lists “A cake of soap / A wedding ring / A gold filling” and asks “Peel off the napkin… Do I terrify?” (*) Sonya reads a passage about this man to Raskolnikov in Crime and Punishment. This figure, who “Laughed” in a Eugene O’Neill drama, titles a poem that states “Dying / is an art, like everything else” and concludes “Beware. / Out of the ash / I rise with my red hair / and I eat men like air.” That poem by Sylvia Plath is named after “Lady” [this character]. For 10 points, name this Biblical figure from Bethany whom Jesus resurrects.
Lazarus &lt;JC, Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
8

156310-)
10. A character in this play remarks that hysteria is a “common denominator of the female nature” and that the “test of a man is his ability to cope with it.” An author’s note in this play likens a character’s face during her unique laugh to that of a seal opening its mouth and expecting a fish. After addressing a girl as “Miss Thin-Standing-Up-Female-Buddha” in this play, a man describes his “spooks” to her, which she compares to her own “blue devils.” A character in this play completes his (*) final poem shortly before dying of a stroke and claims to be the world’s oldest poet. Hannah Jelkes tries to get a room for her and her grandfather at the Costa Verde Hotel in this play, but runs into problems with its owner, Maxine Faulk. For 10 points, name this Tennessee Williams’ play set in Mexico, which features the disgraced Reverend T. Lawrence Shannon.
Night of the Iguana &lt;SB, Drama&gt;
8

156312-)
12. A character in this novel does a cartwheel in front of a woman on the beach because he thinks she looks like a Winslow Homer painting. In this novel, a delusional man who believes he is a professional baseball player is kept to run around the field as a team mascot by the Giants. A character in this novel tries to send his small daughter away from a strike to safety, but jumps on her train at the last minute. That character, Tateh, rises from cutting out paper silhouettes to becoming a (*) movie tycoon styled “The Baron” and marrying one character, whose husband died on the Lusitania. Firemen led by Will Conklin vandalize the Model T Ford of Coalhouse Walker in this novel, which also features Younger Brother, Mother, and Father. For 10 points, Emma Goldman and Harry Houdini appear in what novel set in the early 20th century by E. L. Doctorow?
Ragtime &lt;JC, LongFic&gt;
8

156315-)
15. This man unsuccessfully tried to convince Charlie Chaplin to star in his never-produced “great super-ballet of New York” featuring typewriters and radio, Chronkite’s Clocks. This writer lambasted detective stories in the essay “Who Cares Who Killed Roger Ackroyd?” and contrasted comparative literature and connoisseurship with the title concept in “The Historical Interpretation of Literature.” This author wrote a work whose title derives from “Maryland, My Maryland” and a work whose name refers to a (*) Villiers de l’Isle Adam [veel-YAY duh LEEL ah-DOM] play; in the latter work, this husband of Mary McCarthy provided an overview of Symbolist literature. This author of To the Finland Station included figures like Albion Tourgee and Harriet Beecher Stowe in another work highlighting Civil War literature. For 10 points, name this American literary critic who wrote Axel’s Castle and Patriotic Gore.
Edmund Wilson &lt;JC, Essays/Crit&gt;
8

156317-)
17. This U.S. state names a poem that opens by mentioning a “Barque of phosphor,” which is titled for an allegorical medieval French tale called a fabliau. A characteristic creature of this state “whimpers and speaks in the throat / of the Indian Princess” according to a poem titled for this state by Elizabeth Bishop. A poem set in this state describes an ambiguous figure who “made the sky / Acutest at its vanishing” and “measured the hour to its solitude.” That poem set here addresses a “pale” friend with the phrase (*) “O! Blessed rage for order” before speaking of “ghostlier demarcations, keener sounds.” In a poem set in this state, the speaker asks his friend Ramon Fernandez if he witnessed what happened after “she sang beyond the genius of the sea.” For 10 points, name this state, the setting of Wallace Stevens’ “The Idea of Order at Key West.”
Florida [accept “Fabliau of Florida”] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156319-)
19. In a novel with this title, several shipwrecked characters find themselves cooped up in the house of the eminent art historian Kreutzner and his servant Licht. A John Banville novel with this title is the second in his Frames trilogy featuring Freddie Montgomery. The Anne Frank-like Amy Bellette and the writer E. I. Lonoff are recurring characters in two different Philip Roth novels with this word in their title. White hires Blue to investigate a man named Black in a book with this noun as its title, which comes between City of (*) Glass and The Locked Room in Paul Auster’s New York Trilogy. This noun titles a play in which Pastor Manders supposedly sets fire to an orphanage, and in which the syphilitic Oswald is euthanized by his mother Mrs. Alving, who is haunted by the specter of her late husband. For 10 points, give this spooky noun that titles a Henrik Ibsen play.
ghosts [accept Exit Ghost or The Ghost Writer] &lt;SB, LongFic&gt;
8

156321-)
21. The protagonist of this story mistakes the shadows of people approaching for rabbits, but becomes relieved when he doesn’t see “their long menacing ears.” This story quotes from Lord Byron’s “Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage” when describing a character who has not learned that “tempted Fate will leave the loftiest star.” That character is also described as having a “lust for war” after he hops on boulders to cross a wide stream and kill an imaginary foe. The protagonist of this story retreats to climb a tree after being thrown to the ground by a (*) soldier whose back he jumped upon and tried to ride like a horse. In this story’s final scene, a child finds the body of a dead woman whose brain is protruding through her forehead and discovers his house is being burned down. For 10 points, name this story about a deaf-mute 6-year-old boy in the middle of a Civil War battlefield, written by Ambrose Bierce.
“Chickamauga” &lt;SB, Short Fiction&gt;
8

156322-)
22. Four of this author’s poems were enclosed in a letter to an editor of the Atlantic Monthly, which asked if the editor was not “too deeply occupied to say if [this author’s] Verse is alive?” Harvard’s Rare Book Room contains a copy of this author’s original herbarium, which contains over 424 pressed flower specimens that this author collected. The book White Heat recounts the correspondences that took place between this author and mentor (*) Thomas Wentworth Higginson. This author’s sister Lavinia fulfilled her wishes and burned almost all of her letters after her death, but also found over a hundred of her poems and published them. This author would allegedly only wear cotton white dresses and answer visitors at her Homestead house without opening her door. For 10 points name this reclusive American poet, nicknamed the “Belle of Amherst.”
Emily Dickinson  &lt;SB, Authors/Bios&gt;
8

156323-)
23. In Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man, the narrator remembers secretly eating this food in class behind the cover of a large World Geography book. The narrator later compares his love for this food to Bledsoe’s “shameless” love for chitterlings and purchases another two of them, though one turns out to be frostbitten. In Omeros, Philoctete grows a garden of this food and later destroys his entire harvest of it to show his ancestors what “it’s like without roots in the world.” In a short story, a lowly red-nosed (*) samurai sees his craving for a soup of this food disappear after he accompanies Toshihito on a trip to his mansion. Nwoye is chastised by Okonkwo because he is unable to properly grow this food, which titles an Akutagawa short story. For 10 points, name this most important crop grown in Umuofia, a sweet-potato like vegetable.
yams &lt;SB, Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
8

156327-)
3. This writer summarized musicians in one line, calling Puccini “silver macaroni” and Bach “Genesis 1:1” in one work. He wished Mark Twain had been French in an article about a movement which he described as “the haunting fear that someone, somewhere, may be happy.” This author of “Puritanism as a Literary Force” published others’ angry editorials about himself as “A Schimpflexikon.” He described a place where “a poet is now almost as rare as an oboe-player...or a metaphysician” in an essay attacking the (*) South’s lack of culture. This editor of The Smart Set and author of “The Sahara of the Bozart” described democracy as “the worship of jackals by jackasses” and coined the term “booboisie.” This founder of The American Mercury was fictionalized as E. K. Hornbeck in Inherit the Wind due to his coining of the term “monkey trial.” For 10 points, name this acerbic Baltimore essayist.
Henry Louis Mencken &lt;JC, Essays/Crit&gt;
8

156335-)
11. A man named after this figure reminisces that his parents “gave us each 500 bucks then they cut out.” A novel named for this man features bachelors who drop tiny hats on people and a man who is covered with eyes and ears. Characters in a novel named for this man fear the “carapace” and include Hans Vollmann and Reverend Everly Thomas. As a man named after this figure tries to open a stocking full of money, he hears another character confess to killing Grace. In a 2001 (*) play, a character who runs three-card monte disapproves of his brother’s job impersonating this man. This historical figure’s mourning for his sun Willie inspired a recent novel titled for the Tibetan liminal realm, or bardo, by George Saunders. For 10 points, Susan Lori-Parks’ play Topdog/Underdog depicts a man named after what President who is killed by his brother Booth?
Abraham Lincoln &lt;JC, HistInLit&gt;
8

156341-)
17. In a poem named after one of these animals, it boasts “It took the whole of Creation to produce my foot… There is no sophistry in my body” and asserts “I am going to keep things like this.” Another author’s repressed sadism while working with these animals is described in an account in which one plays with a ball of paper. Another poem about these animals contrasts the falling of a body with the soaring of a “fierce rush” “quite unsheathed from reality” and laments “pain is worse to the strong.” After reading of T. H. White’s failure to tame this animal, (*) Helen Macdonald recounted dealing with her father’s death by training one in a memoir titled H Is For [one of them]. A mercy kill of one of these birds with a broken wing is described in a poem stating, “I’d sooner, except the penalties, kill a man than” one of these birds. For 10 points, name this “Hurt” bird in a Robinson Jeffers poem.
hawk [or goshawk, prompt on bird until read] &lt;JC, Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
8

156344-)
20. This poem’s narrator claims to be willing to accept a memorial, but only if it were not by the sea; and it describes a “premonition of a bright day and a deserted house.” This poem’s narrator reminisces about being “everyone’s darling, the carefree sinner” and asks “if only you could have foreseen what life would do with you.” The narrator asks “You will come anyway - so why not now?” in a section addressed “To Death” and quotes the Biblical line “Weep not for me.” This poem’s author notes seeing “something like a smile” on the face of a woman standing in a (*) prison queue, who asks the question “Can one describe this?” in this poem’s section “Instead of a Preface.” Another of its sections, “Crucifixion,” describes the death of the author’s husband after 17 months’ imprisonment. For 10 points, name this elegiac Anna Akhmatova poem set during the Stalinist purges.
“Requiem” &lt;JC, Poetry&gt;
8

156347-)
23. Ezra Pound admitted this poet’s influence on him in a poem ending “Let there be commerce between us” titled “A Pact.” This author’s works were popularized in Latin America by an 1887 José Martí essay. Bram Stoker was a correspondent with and massive fan of this author, and based the character of Dracula in part on him. The twelfth and final chapter of some Studies by D. H. Lawrence is dedicated to this man, and cites his lines “death, death, death, death, death” and “The (*) sea whisper’d me.” In another poem, this author is imagined as asking “Are you my Angel?”, “Who killed the pork chops?”, and “What price bananas?” This author interpreted democracy as the “manly love of comrades,” a sentiment echoed in his “Calanus” poems. Langston Hughes’ “I, too sing America” is often interpreted as a response to this poet’s “I Hear America Singing.” For 10 points, name this author of Leaves of Grass.
Walt Whitman &lt;WA, Literary Legacy&gt;
8

156353-)
In a Philip Roth novel, characters that participate in this activity include Hot Ptah, Word Smith, and the one-armed Bud Parusha. A Michael Lewis nonfiction work about this activity features Paul DePodesta and the use of sabermetrics. Ernest Thayer wrote a poem about this activity in which a participant says (*) “That ain’t my style” as an object flies past him; that poem ends with no joy in Mudville after the hero fails. For 10 points—give this activity, the subject of Moneyball and “Casey at the Bat.”
baseball
3

156358-)
At his story’s start, this man is taught the difference between writing g’s and q’s by George. Later, while sleeping on a boat, a splash awakens this man but he does not help to look for the woman who jumped ship. He appears in a novel subtitled “A tale of Life among the Lowly”. As a label, this character's name has come to mean an excessively (*) subservient person, as this man forgives the overseers of Simon Legree when he is beaten to death. Harriet Beecher Stowe created—for 10 points—what character who lived in a cabin?
Uncle Tom (accept Uncle Tom's Cabin)
3

156372-)
This author wrote "Beat! beat! drums!—blow! bugles! blow!" in a poem meant to rally Union troops. An assassination prompted him to write "O the bleeding drops of red / Where on the deck my Captain lies / Fallen cold and dead". A stroke caused him to move to (*) Camden, New Jersey, where he later produced a "deathbed edition" of his collected poems; that collection includes "I Sing the Body Electric" and "Song of Myself". For 10 points—who is this poet of Leaves of Grass?
Walt(er) Whitman
3

156375-)
In a Tony Kushner play, Prior Walter goes to this location and tells its inhabitants he will not deliver a message. A character named Eddie meets the waitress Ruby and his former army captain here in a Mitch Albom book. Empyrean is its highest level in a 14th century work, and (*) Beatrice guides an author through this locale to meet exalted rulers and various saints. That work follows descriptions of hell and purgatory. For 10 points—name this reward for the faithful, an abode of God.
Heaven or Paradise (or Paradiso) [Tony Kushner wrote Angels in America, Mitch Albom wrote The Five People You Meet in Heaven, and Dante wrote Paradiso]
3

156394-)
One person claims this character is the nephew of Kaiser Wilhelm. This character calls others "old sport", claims to have collected jewels across Europe, and shows a friend a World War I medal from Montenegro. He worked with Meyer Wolfsheim, who fixed a (*) World Series and sold bootlegged alcohol. This man was originally from a North Dakota farm, but now lives in West Egg next to Nick Carraway, and is known for his lavish parties. F. Scott Fitzgerald created—for 10 points—what "great" character?
Jay Gatsby (accept either underlined name; accept The Great Gatsby)
3

156422-)
This author wrote about the fictional poet Maud Brewster, who flees a ship with Humphrey van Weyden. In another of this author's stories, Hal, Charles, and Mercedes fall into a river due to the spring thaw. This writer described the Native American Mit-Sah being rescued from bullies by a son of (*) Kiche. That action occurs near Fort Yukon during a gold rush and is the second work by this writer centered on canines. For 10 points—who is this author of The Sea-Wolf, The Call of the Wild, and White Fang?
Jack London or John Griffith Chaney
3

156428-)
Minor characters in this work include Herb Gale, Howie Coyle, and Faith Cavendish. Its main character says he missed a funeral because he broke garage windows with his bare hands. The title of this work comes from a Robert Burns poem, which makes its main character wish he could prevent children from falling off a cliff. This work features (*) Oseenburger Hall, where the protagonist has a fight with the roommate Stradlater and leaves, shouting "Sleep tight, ya morons". J.D. Salinger authored—for 10 points—what work about Holden Caulfield?
The Catcher in the Rye
3

156434-)
A humorous one of these “of a Nobody” was authored by George and Weedon Grossmith. Helen Fielding wrote one of these about a single London woman, Sherman Alexie wrote one titled for “a Part-Time Indian”, and a humorous series of them by Rachel Renee Russell tells about a dork. Another one of these from the (*) 1940s details the father Otto and a friend Peter van Daan, and was written while a family stayed in a secret annex in an Amsterdam building hiding from the German army. For 10 points—name this type of journal associated with Bridget Jones and Anne Frank.
diary (accept The Diary of a Nobody et cetera)
3

156444-)
This character appoints Tik-Tok as superintendent of the scalawagon factory. The initials of six middle names and the last name of this person spell "pinhead". This character born in Omaha chooses to appear as a lovely lady, a large beast, and a ball of fire to visitors, but ultimately admits he is a humbug. He gives citizens (*) glasses so that they see everything as green, and uses silk, glue, and a clothes basket to build a traveling balloon Toto fails to board. For 10 points—name this L. Frank Baum character sought by Dorothy in the Emerald City.
The Wizard of Oz or Oscar Diggs (or Oscar Zoroaster Phadrig Isaac Norman Henkle Emmannuel Ambroise Diggs; accept any underlined name)
3

156448-)
One room described in this novel is where pike-men and spade-men lose toes to sharp cutting instruments. In this work's epilogue, the Rachel rescues a character clinging to a coffin. A chapel in this novel contains plaques honoring (*) maritime deaths, and is where Father Mapple preaches about Jonah's ordeal with an aquatic animal. Other characters in this work are the first mate Starbuck and the harpooner Queequeg. Herman Melville wrote—for 10 points—what work in which Captain Ahab chases a whale?
Moby Dick
3

156464-)
This poet used a boating metaphor, saying there was "Rowing in Eden" in the poem "Wild Nights! Wild Nights!". In another writing, this poet describes mourners going "to and fro" in the poem "I Felt a Funeral in My Brain". She states only those who fail often can comprehend victory in (*) "Success is Counted Sweetest" and wrote another poem in which a kind figure brings a horse-driven carriage to collect her for eternity. The play The Belle of Amherst is about—for 10 points—what poet of "Because I Could Not Stop For Death"?
Emily Dickinson
3

156466-)
This is the one word in common to a Cormac McCarthy novel set after a cataclysm and an Erskine Caldwell story about Georgia sharecroppers. A '47 Cadillac is driven by Sal Paradise and Dean Moriarty at over 100 miles per hour in another novel with this word in its title. One of these goes to Wigan Pier in a George Orwell title, and (*) Nicholas Sparks put a bend in one of these thoroughfares. For 10 points—name these pathways that could be smaller than highways or streets.
road (accept The Road or a road, otherwise do not accept multi-word answers or full titles, like "Tobacco Road" et cetera) [The works are The Road, Tobacco Road, On the Road, Road to Wigan Pier, and A Bend in the Road]
3

156476-)
The family in this book invites Mr. Edwards to Christmas dinner, and when Edwards arrives he brings cups, candy, and pennies from Santa. In the beginning of this work the characters attach hickory bows to a wagon, stretch canvas across the bows, and sell possessions. This book’s family saves the title (*) structure from a fire but must move away from it due to tensions with nearby Osage tribe members. Laura Ingalls Wilder wrote—for 10 points—what work about living in the central grasslands that was preceded by Little House in the Big Woods?
Little House on the Prairie
3

156484-)
During a forest walk in this novel a daughter tells a mother about a devil figure. This story is initiated after a Jonathan Pue manuscript is found by a Salem Custom House worker. Governor Bellingham's mansion in this work is where the witch Mistress Hibbins lives. This novel's main character is married to (*) Roger Chillingworth but has an affair with the reverend Arthur Dimmesdale, resulting in the birth of Pearl. Nathaniel Hawthorne wrote—for 10 points—what work in which Hester's adultery is reason she must wear a shameful red "A"?
The Scarlet Letter
3

156490-)
This author wrote a trilogy around the retired detective Bill Hodges, which included Finders Keepers and Mr. Mercedes. In another of this writer's works, John Coffey is executed at the Cold Mountain Penitentiary. This man wrote about Annie Wilkes, who kidnaps the author (*) Paul Sheldon and forces him to write a book to resurrect a killed character. His series about the gunslinger Roland Deschain looking for a shadowy structure was adapted into a 2017 film. For 10 points—who is this horror author of The Green Mile, Misery, and The Dark Tower?
Stephen King (accept Richard Bachman, a pen name)
3

156497-)
In a V.S. Naipaul title one of these objects is "for Mr. Biswas". Lily Bart is the main character in an Edith Wharton novel describing one of these "of Mirth" and Isabel Allende titled a novel for this one word "of the Spirits" One of these is (*) "Bleak" in a Charles Dickens title and Sandra Cisneros wrote of one "on Mango Street". Pearl Buck's The Good Earth starts a trilogy in which one representing a family gets "divided", and John Irving told of one having rules about the making of cider. For 10 points—name these places where one can live.
house (accept a house or the house; otherwise neg players who give longer answers. The titles are A House for Mr. Biswas, The House of Mirth, House of the Spirits, Bleak House, A House on Mango Street, A House Divided, and The Cider House Rules]
3

156504-)
This literary region contains the tree used in John André's hanging, and is near Sing-Sing village and Wiley's Swamp. One of its residents, Hans Van Ripper, owns the horse Gunpowder, and its bachelor Abraham Van Brunt rides Daredevil. According to Diedrich Knickerbocker, this place was (*) cursed by a High German doctor or Native American chief. At a party hosted here by Balt Van Tassel, locals told tales of a galloping Hessian who carried a face not attached to shoulders. For 10 points—name this place where Ichabod Crane met the Headless Horseman.
Sleepy Hollow (accept The Legend of Sleepy Hollow) [Abraham Van Brunt is better known by the nickname Brom Bones]
3

156521-)
In a drama by this writer, the Reverend T. Lawrence Shannon is accused of having an affair with an underage girl during a Mexican tour. The schizophrenia of his sister Rose inspired a play by this author in which a gentleman caller discusses with Laura Wingfield a collection of (*) tabletop figurines. He also authored a drama in which the New Orleans resident Stanley Kowalski clashes with his sister-in-law Blanche DuBois. For 10 points—give this author of The Glass Menagerie and A Streetcar Named Desire, a man whose nickname is a southeastern state.
Tennessee Williams or Thomas Lanier Williams III
3

156523-)
One character in this book is said to smell like sage and lemongrass, and gets a spider tattoo. The protagonist of this book imagines glass is actually ice which then shatters. This novel's character Uriah invites the protagonist to jump off a train and (*) zipline down a skyscraper. The title of this novel is the category of people with inconclusive test results, as all citizens must be placed into one of five factions. Veronica Roth wrote—for 10 points—what novel followed by Insurgent and Allegiant?
Divergent
3

156532-)
This poetry character has a friend who hears "the measured tread of the grenadiers". He later sees a gilded weathercock swimming in moonlight, and meeting-house windows gaze at him "with a spectral glare". This man stamps the earth, impatiently waiting for a belfry signal while tightening his (*) saddle-girth, all preceding April 1775 events in Middlesex villages and farms. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow wrote about—for 10 points—what horse-riding figure who spread the alarm the British were coming?
Paul Revere (accept Paul Revere's Ride)
3

156536-)
In a Hart Crane poem, one of these object’s parts "breathe the North Atlantic". The failure of one of these objects in a Thornton Wilder title is seen by Brother Juniper. The French novelist Pierre Boulle described prisoners who died extending the Burma Railway in a novel about one of these (*) "over the River Kwai". A young adult novel by Katherine Paterson sees Jesse Aaron lose a friend after a rope swing breaks; Jesse then builds one of these to the magical land of Terabithia. For 10 points—name these structures that often span waterways.
bridge (accept The Bridge of San Luis Rey, The Bridge over the River Kwai, and Bridge to Terabithia)
3

156539-)
One character in this play has the University of Virginia insignia on his sneakers, but needs to study with Bernard to pass math and graduate. The wife of this play's protagonist wants him to talk to Howard Wagner about a non-traveling job. In a daydream, this play's characters realize a $70 commission barely covers family expenses. It ends with the protagonist (*) driving off hoping the family can collect insurance money. Biff and Happy are the sons of Willy Loman in—for 10 points—what Arthur Miller play in which a business marketer kills himself?
Death of a Salesman
3

156558-)
In this book, Mrs. Bell teaches ratios by having the heaviest and lightest kids in class weigh themselves. Its character Ms. Morengo learns from Derrick Dunne that at 3:20 the protagonist was retrieving a notebook from a toilet. One of this book’s authority figures has traded smoking for eating sunflower seeds, has a (*) rattlesnake tattoo, and has oversees Squid, X-Ray, and Zero. The title excavations must be 5 feet across and 5 feet deep. Stanley Yelnats is sent to Camp Green Lake in—for 10 points—what Louis Sachar [“sacker”] work in which prisoners must dig?
Holes
3

156566-)
In a short story by this author, an Easterner, a cowboy, and a Swede stay at a "Blue Hotel". This writer also wrote about Mary and Jimmie Johnson, who throw Maggie out of an apartment and force her to live on the streets. This author described the plight of a captain, correspondent, and cook who survive a shipwreck in "The (*) Open Boat". In his best known novel, the young flag-bearer Henry Fleming lacks bravery, but returns to his regiment after being hit on the head. For 10 points—who is this author of The Red Badge of Courage?
Stephen Crane
3

156574-)
After Will Benteen returns from Jonesboro in this book, the characters learn scalawags have raised local taxes. Toward its end, the character Bonnie dies from a horse riding accident, and this novel's concluding line is "After all, tomorrow is another day". Its main character marries (*) Charles Hamilton and Frank Kennedy, converses with the slave Mammy, and lives on the Tara plantation. Margaret Mitchell wrote—for 10 points—what novel followed by the sequels Rhett Butler's People, Scarlett, and the parody The Wind Done Gone?
Gone With the Wind
3

156578-)
This urban place is the setting of Caleb Carr's The Alienist, Joseph Heller's Closing Time, and Edith Wharton's The Age of Innocence. The narrator of Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man joins "the Brotherhood" here, and Esther Greenwood gains a magazine publishing internship here in Sylvia Plath's The Bell Jar. (*) Harriet the Spy lives in its Upper East Side and George Selden described a cricket who rides its subway and ends up in Times Square. For 10 points—name this city known as the Big Apple.
New York City, New York
3

156586-)
In a Sayed Kashua title, this is "singular". Examples using this literary technique are Tom Robbins' Half Asleep in Frog Pajamas and Jay McInerney's Bright Lights, Big City. This rare perspective is seen in Dr. Suess' Oh, the Places (*) You'll Go and its use allowed the reader to direct the narrative in the Choose Your Own Adventure series. The audience is a character within the story when an author uses—for 10 points—what point of view written using the pronoun "you", contrasted with the "he" and "she" in third person narratives?
second person point of view (or narrative; accept Second Person Singular)
3

156589-)
One of these people is in an Ernest Hemingway title with a gambler and a radio. El Salvador’s military murdered one named Maura Clarke and another of these people was awarded the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize while she worked in India. In 1809, Elizabeth Ann (*) Seton became one. Aspirants to these positions begin as postulants and then are novitiates [no-VISH-etts], before their first professions and final permanent vows. For 10 points—give this term for women in Catholic religious orders.
nun (accept The Gambler, the Nun, and the Radio; due to the title, do not accept other answers like “sister” or “mother”)
3

156595-)
In a Dorothy Parker poem, one of these is perfect, "all tenderly his messenger he chose". Thomas Moore described the last of these of summer, "All her lovely companions / Are faded and gone". In a Vachel Lindsay poem the avtitle one of these weds the lotus. Another poem titled for this (*) perennial is "newly sprung in June" and is addressed to a fair bonnie lass desired by the speaker. Robert Burns said his love is like—for 10 points—a red, red example of what flower?
rose (accept One Perfect Rose, Tis The Last Rose of Summer, The Wedding of the Rose and the Lotus, or A Red, Red Rose)
3

156598-)
Titles of 2017 featuring this character include Riverboat Roulette, Candy Kingdom Chaos, and The Professor and the Puzzle. This figure has a bulldog named Togo, and her mother Kate died in a Glasgow car accident. This character was revised by the author Harriet Stratemeyer Adams when she appeared in a (*) 1959 revision of The Secret of the Old Clock. The collective pseudonym Carolyn Keene is used for writers of—for 10 points—what female detective who has appeared in crossover works with the Hardy Boys?
Nancy Drew (accept either underlined name)
3

156603-)
One novel by this author describes Jean Marie Latour’s time ministering to New Mexican Catholics. Another work by this writer is about Thea Kronberg’s career as a singer. This author told of Alexandra Bergson’s farm in Hanover, Nebraska, and in another Nebraska setting described (*) Jim Burden’s time living near the Shimerda family from Bohemia. Those two works are part of her Great Plains trilogy. For 10 points--who is this author of Death Comes for the Archbishop, O Pioneers!, and My Ántonia?
Willa Cather
3

156631-)
In a poem by this writer, characters create a tunnel and call it “Aladdin's wondrous cave." In another poem, this writer exclaims, “Behold! the drink of the gods," and, in alluding to Vedic religious practice, “bring honey from the hollow oak.” This writer criticized a political figure allowing the passing of a fugitive slave bill by stating “When faith is lost, when honor dies / The man is dead!" in the poem (*) “Ichabod.” In another poem by this writer of “Maud Muller,” a woman who was the bravest of “all in Frederick town” tells Confederate troops, “Shoot, if you must, this old gray head, but spare your country's flag.” For 10 points, name this Quaker poet of “Snow-Bound” and “Barbara Frietchie.”
John Greenleaf Whittier &lt;Jin&gt;
2

156643-)
A character in one of this author’s works harbors jealousy towards another character, compelling the two to compare daughters. In another work, this author wrote about another character’s jealousy when his romantic interest dances with Denis Eady. This author of “Roman Fever” wrote a novel in which Lucius Beaufort is exposed in a banking scandal, causing (*) Mrs. Mingott to die of a stroke. That same work ends with the protagonist marrying May Welland instead of the woman he truly loves. One of this author’s most famous novels ends with Mattie Silver attempting to commit suicide by sledding into a tree. For 10 points, name this American author who wrote such works as The House of Mirth, The Age of Innocence, and Ethan Frome.
Edith Wharton [or Edith Newbold Jones] &lt;Jin&gt;
2

156654-)
This novel references a real-life one-time performance of Benny Goodman on BBC Radio to contextualize events within the plot. The beginning of this novel follows Pirate Prentice working to solve a mystery involving an employee of the organization ACHTUNG. Later in this novel, another character finds a pattern in the aforementioned mystery that follows the (*) Poisson distribution. This novel opens with the line “A screaming comes across the sky” and ends with Gottfried being sacrificed in a rocket with serial number 00000. For 10 points, name this work in which Lieutenant Tyrone Slothrop’s sexual encounters in London are always followed with V-2 rocket strikes, a novel written by Thomas Pynchon.
Gravity’s Rainbow &lt;Jin&gt; BONUSES:
2

156660-)
Jupiter Hammon once wrote an ode to this person, whose first poem was about the University of Cambridge. In one work, this person wrote about “when Gallic powers Columbia’s fury found” and, for a certain figure, wished “thy ev’ry action let the Goddess decide / A crown, a mansion, and a throne that shine.” This poet wrote many elegies, the most famous of which was for (*) George Whitefield. This poet said “Remember, Christians, Negroes, black as Cain, / May be refin'd, and join th' angelic train,” in a poem included in her collection Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral. For 10 points, name this American poet of works such as “To His Excellency, George Washington,” and “On Being Brought From Africa to America.”
Phyllis Wheatley &lt;Jin&gt;
2

156669-)
The title character in this novel receives her coveted jacket after her attempts to return twenty dollars are rebuffed. One important conversation in this novel takes place over asparagus and sirloin, where a character persuades the title character to move in with him. This novel ends with a man using a (*) gas jet to commit suicide. The protagonist of this work also uses the last name Wheeler while married, and as her career improves, her husband, George Hurstwood, descends into poverty and gambling. This novel’s protagonist, an aspiring actress, meets Charles Drouet on a train to Chicago. For 10 points, name this novel by Theodore Dreiser about the titular girl from rural Wisconsin.
Sister Carrie &lt;Kumar&gt;
2

156685-)
One work titled for the “Blues” of this place chronicles the positive and negative experiences of Native American children. In a work partially set in this location, James Castle commits suicide by jumping out of a window. In another work set in this type of place, Pudge is guided through his own (*) “labyrinth of suffering” and the title character dies while driving drunk to her mother’s grave; that work is set in a location of this type called Culver Creek. In another novel set in this type of institution, the protagonist feels uncomfortable when Mr. Antolini strokes his head, which occurs after the protagonist was expelled from a place of this type called Pencey Prep. For 10 points, name this institution attended by protagonists of Looking for Alaska and Catcher in the Rye.
boarding school [prompt on partial answer] &lt;McMaken&gt;
2

156697-)
The author of the Perry Mason detective stories, Erle Stanley Gardner, published under a pen name with this letter twice followed by “Fair.” Another author with this double initial set his works in the Hundred Acre Woods, and in an introduction to a novel named for this letter, the author finds this letter on a piece of cloth in a pile of old papers in the (*) Salem Custom House. When the protagonist of that novel dies, her tombstone reads, “On a field, sable, (this letter), gules,” and earlier in that novel, Pearl is unusually fascinated with this letter, which the protagonist placed on her dress as public punishment for her infidelity. For 10 points, name this letter of the alphabet, a scarlet example of which is embroidered on Hester Prynne’s dress in a Hawthorne novel.
A &lt;McMaken&gt;
2

156732-)
In one poem by this author, an entity that forces the landscape to listen and forces shadows to hold their breath when it comes inflicts a scarless “heavenly hurt.” This poet imagined a bee that babbles in stolid air, and a “little Bird / That kept so many warm” appears in a work in which this poet says, (*) “ ‘Hope’ is the thing with feathers -.” This poet of “There's a certain Slant of light” said that “The Stillness in the Room / Was like the Stillness in the Air -” in a poem about the “Blue - uncertain - stumbling Buzz -” of the title creature. This reclusive poet did not name any poems and employed dashes frequently into her writing. For 10 points, name this poet from Amherst who wrote “I heard a Fly buzz - when I died -” and “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Emily Elizabeth Dickinson &lt;McMaken&gt;
2

156752-)
In one of this author’s poems, he describes how a certain type of person swears “with an ‘I dew vym,” or an ‘I tell yeou” and concludes with the line “Logic is logic That’s all I say.” This author coined the term “Boston Brahmin,” and his prose works are collected in his Breakfast-Table series. The narrator of another of his poems hears “clearer notes (*)...than ever Triton blew” from the titular “ship of pearl.” In another poem, he advocates to “give her to the god of storms” rather than letting “her shattered bulk” sink, and that poem describes the USS Constitution. For 10 points, name this father of a Supreme Court Justice, the Fireside Poet of “Old Ironsides” and “The Chambered Nautilus.”
Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr. [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Kumar&gt;
2

156762-)
Leo Marx’s 1964 book The Machine in the Garden describes this object’s damaging as disrupting the “Pastoral Ideal.” Steven Mintz titled his “History of American Childhood” after this object. A 1948 essay titled for this object compares its owner to Richard Dana, Natty Bumppo, and Ishmael. This object is temporarily lost while its owner is trying to trap murderous thieves in the wreck of the Walter Scott. This object titles an essay examining (*) homoeroticism in American literature written by Leslie Fiedler. This object, home to a “wigwam,” makes its owner “feel mighty free and easy” because it isn’t “so cramped up and smothery.” Found near Jackson’s Island, this object collides with a steamboat owned by the Grangerfords, and is later home to two men who claim to be a Duke and Dauphin. For 10 points, what vehicle is floated down the Mississippi River in The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn?
the raft in Huckleberry Finn &lt;RK&gt;
8

156764-)
This object is described as a “passport into regions where other [people] dared not tread. Shame, Despair, Solitude!” A novel ends with the statement “On a field, sable” on which this object is depicted, referring to the inscription of a shared tombstone. This object is first seen in a frame story with “a small roll of dingy paper” amongst the documents of Surveyor Jonathan Pue. While delivering gloves, a girl is fascinated by this object’s reflection in a armor breastplate in the (*) governor's mansion. Earlier, in a forest, that girl tells her mother “'the sunshine does not love you … because it is afraid of [this object].” While standing on a scaffold, a man spots a meteor in the shape of this object. Embroidered with gold thread, this object punishes a woman for having the child Pearl with a minister following the disappearance of her husband Roger Chillingworth in England. For 10 points, what object represents Hester Prynne’s adultery in a Nathaniel Hawthorne novel?
the scarlet letter [or the letter A; accept equivalents demonstrating knowledge, prompt on incomplete answers] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156767-)
In a work titled for these objects, a woman suggests her husband has “spoiled [his] career,” leading him to call for his “Mamma” and babble he’s “an orphan, dworfan.” That man asks his wife, whom he calls Semiramis, to drink her tea, prompting her to ask him to “imitate the month of February” in a work titled for these objects. Arrivals through doors in a semi-circular room prompt characters to excitedly retrieve these objects. A character surrounded by these objects writes “ANGELFOOD” on a blackboard and leaves the stage after revealing that he’s (*) deaf. A play titled for these objects ends with two characters throwing confetti and streamers while shouting “Long live the Emperor” before jumping out of the windows, after which the Orator fails to relay their message to the audience. That play ends with “empty [objects of this sort] on an empty stage.” For 10 points, the Old Man and Woman entertain invisible guests in a “tragic farce” by Eugène Ionesco titled for what furniture items?
chairs &lt;RK&gt;
8

156771-)
John Donne compares his love to the rising and setting sun in his “Lecture upon [one of these objects].” In Great Expectations, Pip sees a “nameless” one of them when first meeting Estelle, and metaphorically sees one not “parting from her” at the novel’s very end. A knight asks a “pilgrim” one of these objects “Where can [the title location] be” in Edgar Allan Poe’s “Eldorado." J. M. Waterhouse was inspired by a Tennyson line in which the Lady of Shalott claims to be (*) “half sick of” these objects. The title of Ralph Ellison’s review of Intruder in the Dust pairs this object with “the Act.” Western and Japanese aesthetics are contrasted in a Junichiro Tanizaki essay “In Praise of [them].” Puck’s closing speech begins by noting “if we [these objects] have offended you,” and Macbeth’s “Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow” speech says “Life’s but a walking [one of them].” For 10 points, Peter Pan loses what sort of object, seen on the wall in Plato’s “Allegory of the Cave?”
shadows &lt;RK&gt;
8

156786-)
In Mary Hood’s story ”A Country Girl,” a man carrying an object of this type converses with a painter about a pond full of alligators. An essay collection, followed up by Regarding the Pain of Others, describes “an aggression implicit in every use of [this object].” A door-to-door salesman with hooks for hands carries one of these objects around in a Raymond Carver story. James Incandenza places one of these objects in a baby’s crib In the film Infinite Jest V. An 1958 introduction written by Jack Kerouac tells the author, a man who used one of these objects, “You’ve got eyes.” (*) Autobiographical stream-of-consciousness sections that alternate with “Newsreels” in the U.S.A Trilogy are titled for the “Eye” of this object. In An American Tragedy, Roberta Alden drowns when she is knocked out of a boat after being hit by one of these devices. For 10 points, name this type of object used by Margaret Bourke-White to illustrate Erskine Caldwell’s You Have Seen Their Faces.
cameras &lt;JM&gt;
8

156790-)
The annual summer “layoff” of sugar-cane cutters Roo and Barney is disrupted in Australian playwright Ray Lawler’s Summer of the Seventeenth [of these objects]. A foul-mouthed character named for one of these objects berates Ancient Pistol and woos Falstaff in the Boar’s-Head Tavern. A character named for one of these objects interrupts a play’s opening bickering by asking “Will you undo yourselves with civil war?” and later pretends to be the “Queen of Fairy.” The name of this object was a byword for prostitute during the Elizabethan era. Being called (*) “little skylark” and “little squirrel” leads a character to compare herself to one of these objects. That character notes she hasn’t had a serious conversation with her husband in eight years before comparing herself, as her father had done, to one of these objects. For 10 points, Nora Helmer likes herself to what sort of plaything in a Henrik Ibsen play?
dolls [or Doll Tearsheet; or Doll Common] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156791-)
Peter Kahn, Ravi Shankar, and Patricia Smith compiled an anthology titled for one of these objects. A poem titled for one of these objects is divided into sections titled ‘1981’ and ‘1991,’ and describes a character “Groomed on a diet of hunger.” The last words of each line of that Terrance Hayes poem, titled for one of these objects, were selected to form a previous poem inspired by the sight of seven boys skipping school at a location named for one of these objects. In another poem, the speaker carries “milk in a bottle” to a man who uses one of these objects. (*) Gwendolyn Brooks’ “We Real Cool” is set at a bar named for a “Golden” object of this sort. In a poem, the author compares a different object “snug as a gun” “between [his] finger and [his] thumb” to one of these objects that creates “the squelch and slap / Of soggy peat,” and remarks “By God, the old man could handle [one of these objects].” For 10 points, name this object that Seamus Heaney compares to his “squat pen” and recalls his father using in the poem “Digging.”
a shovel [or a spade; or a golden shovel] &lt;JM&gt;
8

156796-)
They’re not masks, but in a story by Fumiko Enchi, a writer compares Ichige Rie, who spent her life married to a domineering mentally-disabled man, to a “Boxcar of” these objects. In another story, a mother lights a lamp, causing her daughter to be startled by one of these objects in her mother’s apron scattered by her son John scattered earlier. A tinkerer convinces Elisa Allen to give him work by feigning interest in these objects that he throws away in a 1937 story. In a story titled for these (*) plants, a woman serves toast and tea to her father and considers visiting the pub “Prince of Wales.” John Steinbeck wrote a story titled for these plants. In another story, the “cold, deathly smell of [these plants]” fills the room as a woman reflects on her isolation while cleaning a body brought by some men into her home’s parlour. For 10 points, Elizabeth Bates discovers her husband has died in a coal-mining accident in a D. H. Lawrence story titled for “The Odour of” what flowers?
chrysanthemums [or Kiku; or “The Odour of Chrysanthemums”; prompt on flowers] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156800-)
20. Composer and poet Jackson Mac Low wrote his 5 biblical poems by using some of these objects to assign silences to Hebrew scriptures. Quentin Meillassoux’s book The Number and the Siren links the number 707 to the “stellar outcome” of some of these objects in a poem that R. Howard Bloch claimed “Made Us Modern” in a 2017 book. A poem partially titled for these objects begins at “the depths of a shipwreck” and ends by stating “Every thought issues” the use of these objects. “Drowned men’s (*) bones” are compared to some of these objects that “bequeath / An embassy” at the opening of “At Melville’s Tomb.” Numerous typefaces and vast regions of empty space are utilized in a Symbolist poem titled for these objects. In “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner,” Life-in-Death “whistles thrice” after defeating Death in a game involving these objects, “A Throw” of which” Will Never Abolish Chance” according to the title of a 20-page poem by Stéphane Mallarmé. For 10 points, what cube-shaped objects are paired with cards in a Walter Raleigh poem lamenting gambling?
dice [or “Un coup de dés jamais n'abolira le hasard”] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156802-)
The real-estate agent Andrea attributes her success to one of these objects she obsessed with in Ann Beattie’s story “Janus,” The protagonist of a 1920 story is given by Carleton Canby one of these objects “as cold and hard and beautiful” as her. A character likens her desire for “happiness without a hole in it big enough for you to poke in your finger” to one of these objects that she received from a man fluent in Italian, who recognizes a couple in some of her photographs. Evelyn Piper is haunted by a large one of these objects in a story from Flappers and Philosophers that begins by describing “a (*) cut-glass age.” Fanny Assingham destroys one of these objects bought in a Bloomsbury antique shop after she learns of an affair involving her friend’s husband. An 800-page novel titled for one of these objects concludes its author’s New York Edition. For 10 points, Henry James described a love triangle between Charlotte Stant, Maggie Verver, and Prince Amerigo in a novel titled for what “Golden” object?
bowls [or “The Cut-Glass Bowl”; or The Golden Bowl] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156804-)
A Charles Simic poem likens some of these objects to “Green Buddhas.” Gary Soto recalls his first time walking with a girl and buying her some chocolate in a poem titled for these objects. The speaker remarks that, like one of these objects, “everything dissolves: justice, pine, hair, woman, you and I” and ends by naming that object three times, in Robert Hass’ “Meditation at Lagunitas.” The “solace” of these objects “[seem] to fill the air” and comfort the title figure of the poem “To a Poor Old Woman.” The speaker of a poem partially titled for these objects cannot “rub the strangeness from my sight” and compares his sleep to a woodchuck’s. That poem begins by describing a (*) “long two-pointed [ladder] sticking through a tree.” Some of these objects “you were probably / saving / for breakfast” are taken by the speaker, who says “they were delicious / so sweet / and so cold” For 10 points, what objects are found “in / the icebox” in William Carlos Williams’ “This is Just to Say.”
fruits [or “Watermelons”; or “Oranges”; or blackberries; or plums; or “After Apple-Picking”] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156812-)
It’s not a crucible, but an article describing “Why I Wrote” a work about this object relates how “one is a pauper and a parasite” without work, as felt after being suggested to "never to touch pen, brush, or pencil again.” That article was published in the author’s self-published journal The Forerunner. Near the end of a story about this object, the protagonist throws a key out a barred window, where it supposedly lands “under a plantain leaf.” This object, which “[commits] every (*) artistic sin,” sports “curves” that “suddenly commit suicide” and is called a kind of “debased Romanesque” with delirium tremens. The protagonist imagines a woman “crawling” behind this object, and thus begins destroying it. For 10 points, a woman goes insane after her husband commits her to a room dominated by what title object in a Charlotte Perkins Gilman story?
the yellow wallpaper [prompt on wallpaper] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156815-)
Blinded World War I veterans supposedly inspired Maria Bjornson’s iconic design of this object. Michael Crawford originally performed the role that wears this object. A character compares herself to this object before her and its owner sing of their spirit and voice “in one combined.” This object’s owner sings of a “slave of fashion / basking in your glory” before his addressee sees this object in a mirror. After this object is removed, its owner says “Damn you! Curse you!” in the song (*) “Stranger Than You Dreamt It.” This object’s owner is repeatedly described as an “Angel of Music.” That man, who wears this object, composes Don Juan Triumphant as a trap six months after having overheard his love betray him in the song “All I Ask of You,” leading him to bring down a chandelier in anger. The design for this object was changed from Gaston Leroux’s novel to only reveal half of the face. For 10 points, what object is used in an Andrew Lloyd Webber musical to hide Erik’s scars?
the Phantom’s mask [or the mask from Phantom of the Opera; prompt on mask by asking “From what work?”] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156816-)
Louis Wu and Nessus explore a world shaped like one of these objects in the best known novel of sci-fi author Larry Niven. Spiral and Birthday are two installments in Koji Suzuki’s series of horror novels titled for one of these objects. William Morris and S. R. Crockett provided inspiration for a series concerning some of these objects, praised by W. H. Auden. Dylan Ebdus and Mingus Rude discover one of these objects in Jonathan Lethem’s The Fortress of Solitude. An essay describing some of these objects “and the Third Age” appears in a collection after a work attributed to Elendil, titled the (*) Akallabêth. A character wins a game of “Riddles in the Dark” by asking “What have I got in my pocket?”, to which the answer is one of these objects. Three, seven, and nine of these objects are created for three different races, with one extra to “to bring them all and in the darkness bind them.” For 10 points, what magical objects are forged by Sauron in a J. R. R. Tolkien trilogy?
rings &lt;RK&gt;
8

156828-)
Graham Greene called a line of poetry inspired by this object “The most difficult thing I find in recent literature.” An author’s time living next to Napoleon Guay in New Hampshire provided that line in a poem about this object. A “kind of outdoor game” involving this object requires the spell “‘Stay where you are until our backs are turned!'” In trying to understand this object, the speaker asks to know “to whom I was like to give offense,” considers saying “Elves … But it’s not elves exactly,” and notes “But here there are no (*) cows.” A man who is “all pine” meets the speaker, who is “apple orchard,” at this object, where he’s described as “savage armed” carrying stones shaped like “loaves” or “nearly balls.” The line “Something there is that doesn’t love [this object]” opens a poem titled for it, the first in the collection North of Boston. For 10 points, what object inspires the speaker’s neighbor to note “Good fences make good neighbors” in a Robert Frost poem?
the wall [accept “Mending Wall”] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156831-)
These objects are manufactured in a factory run by Etzel Olsch that is shaped like either a double integral or the letters “SS.” A group studying these objects was headquartered in an abandoned mental hospital nicknamed “The White Visitation.” Descendants from mandala-shaped Herero villages form a group called the Schwarzkommando to create the “first African” one of these objects. A map describing these objects is found by Pirate Prentice, and another is constructed by (*) Roger Mexico, who finds that they follow Poisson distributions. Captain Blicero orders the construction of these objects, including one which features the serial number “00000.” One of these objects is described as a “screaming [coming] across the sky” at a novel’s opening. For 10 points, the impact of what weapons coincide with the sexual encounters of Tyrone Slothrop in Thomas Pynchon’s Gravity’s Rainbow?
V-2 rockets &lt;JM&gt;
8

156832-)
A Djuna Barnes roman à clef centering on the queer social circle of Natalie Clifford Barney’s salon is titled for a “Ladies” one of these objects. An author used the first edition of one of these works to predict the death of his major rival, Titan Leeds, a stunt inspired by Jonathan Swift’s use of the pseudonym Isaac Bickerstaff to predict the death of a popular publisher of these works, John Partridge. A work titled for this sort of publication includes an essay that develops the analogy of “Thinking Like a Mountain,” and was largely inspired by the author’s farm in Baraboo, (*) Wisconsin. A comedic one of these publications that frequently employed wordplay was written under the pseudonym Richard Saunders. The concept of the “land ethic” was put forth by Aldo Leopold in a work titled for one of these publications charting the fictional “Sand County.” For 10 points, Benjamin Franklin gained initial fame for what sort of publication attributed to “Poor Richard?”
almanacs [or Ladies Almanack; Poor Richard's Almanack; or A Sand County Almanac: And Sketches Here and There] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156835-)
A novel begins “the deeds were done and done again as my life is done in” a substance derived from these objects. At a 4th of July party in The Bluest Eye, Cholly wonders whether God is a black man after seeing Blue Jack surrounded by children as he holds one of these objects over his head and throws it to the ground. The post-apocalyptic community of iDEATH is constructed using a substance derived from these objects in a 1964 novel. Gene Harrogate is sent to a work camp for trespassing onto a farmer’s property to have (*) sex with some of these objects in Cormac McCarthy’s Suttree. The Grandmother describes receiving one of these objects inscribed with the initials of Mr. Edgar Atkins Teagarden every Saturday in “A Good Man is Hard to Find.” At the opening of The Piano Lesson, Boy Willie and Lymon arrive with a truck full of these fruits they plan to sell. In “A Supermarket in California,” Allen Ginsberg asks Federico Garcia Lorca “what were you doing down by [these fruits].” For 10 points, what fruits are often portrayed in racist stereotypes of African-Americans?
watermelons [accept (In) Watermelon Sugar; prompt on fruit] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156838-)
Many of Dorothy West’s poems were published in a posthumous collection titled “[This object] of Harlem.” A poem compares this object to a man with “the old three-cornered hat, / And … breeches” that “Are so queer!” Despite claiming one of these objects was there to “show [her] how bad [she] was,” a character later expresses her long-time desire to paint the Bay of Naples. That character had refused to eat, instead watching this object through a window. A man “cut … down” by “the pruning-knife of Time” notes “the names he loved to hear … carved for many a year / On the tomb” in an (*) Oliver Wendell Holmes poem titled for this sort of object. Old Behrman spends the night painting his “great masterpiece,” one of these objects, in a story set during a pneumonia epidemic in Greenwich Village. Sue is concerned to hear Johnsy say she’ll die when this object falls in a story written by O. Henry. For 10 points, what is the name for a plant’s final piece of foliage?
the Last Leaf [prompt on leaf] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156842-)
Civil War deserter Harry Lennox tries to convince Belle Morgan he’s not a “peacock” in a Louisa May Alcott story titled for “Scarlet” objects of this sort. A character concludes "No sweat … the magic doesn't go away" after his girlfriend breaks up with him in a story titled for these objects. In a story titled for these clothing items, “the neighbors sometimes talked of certain ‘better days’” the protagonist had before getting married. In a story from The Things They Carried, Henry Dobbins wears these items around his (*) neck for good luck. A story titled for these clothing items ends with the protagonist expressing “a powerful longing that the cable car would never stop anywhere, but go on and on with her forever.” Rather than purchasing clothes for her children, Mrs. Sommers impulsively uses the $15 she acquired to buy some of these items, along with gloves and magazines. For 10 points, Kate Chopin wrote a story titled for “A Pair of” what clothing items?
stockings [or pantyhose] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156845-)
In one work, one of these objects is the only of a character’s possessions not burned after he breaks up with Raina, a girl he meets a Baptist camp. These objects title that graphic novel by Craig Thompson. One of these objects depicts a British naval ensign along with phrase like “permission to fire.” The MFA Houston first showcased a popular exhibition of these objects, made in Gee’s Bend, Alabama. Tracey Emin’s Hate and Power Can be a Terrible Thing is one of these objects. One of these objects contains a depiction of several girls performing the title action in front of the Mona Lisa, titled Dancing at the (*) Louvre. Another of these objects by the same artist depicts the story of the title character becoming a successful businesswoman, Faith Ringgold’s Who’s Afraid of Aunt Jemima. A large one of these objects was displayed in Washington, D.C. representing every victim of AIDS. For 10 points name these cloth objects that are a common form of American folk art.
quilts [accept Blankets until “Gee’s Bend”, prompt after] &lt;JM&gt;
8

156851-)
Mrs. Larkin copes with the death of her husband by isolating herself in her garden in a story titled for one of these objects. It’s not a globe or rose, but excavation of a Shakespearean theatre named for one of these objects is underway. The lives of Cándido and Delaney intertwine in a 1995 novel that analogizes the US-Mexico border to one of these objects. A “Manager of Performance” introduces the “Becky puppet” and “Amelia Doll” in a section titled “Before [this object]” at the opening of (*) Vanity Fair. “A Worn Path” and “Why I Live at the P.O” were published in Eudora Welty’s first story collection, titled for a “green” one of these objects. “Teasers” and “travelers” are types of these objects hung behind the proscenium. After moving into a new house in St. Petersburg, a judge falls from a ladder while hanging some of these objects, leading to his eventual death. That man is Ivan Ilyich. For 10 points, what objects are “drawn” to begin and end a play?
curtains [or Tortilla Curtain; or equivalents such as drapes] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156852-)
Some of these objects “trembled for the flying man,” while others are brought by a woman “each Tuesday morning” to “the circle of the crazy ladies,” in two separate Anne Sexton poems. The chapter “Before MCMXIV” opens John Betjeman’s blank verse autobiography, Summoned by [these objects]. A speaker who wanders “from pit to crucifix” calls himself the “sexton slave” of these objects that “swing I know not where.” The image of a body “Lying so primly propped” ends a (*) John Crowe Ransom poem titled “[These objects] For John Whiteside's Daughter.” A poem beginning “No man is an Island” ends with a quote about one of these objects. Wilfred Owen’s “Anthem for Doomed Youth” requests some of these objects “for those who die as cattle.” A poem describes the “tintinnabulation” of these objects that keep “time, time, time, / In a sort of Runic rhyme.” For 10 points, John Donne’s “Meditation XVII” answers “to thee” after asking “for whom” what sort of object tolls?
bells &lt;RK&gt;
8

156856-)
A character named for these objects responds “Amen to that” after another character quotes Edward Thomas’ line “Blessed are the dead that the rain falls on” during a funeral. A character describes taking his wife to the window and saying “You may fool me, but you can’t fool God!” as Michaelis watches some of these objects “[emerge] … from the dissolving night.” Some of these objects described as “blue and gigantic” “brood on over [a] solemn dumping (*) ground.” Tiny reclining nudes are depicted within two of these objects in a famous design by Francis Cugat with a blue background. A “wild wag” has some of these objects painted to “fatten his practice in the borough of Queens.” A character named for these objects spots the protagonist’s uncut books, exclaiming “This fella's a regular Belasco!” and is one of few to attend the protagonist’s funeral. For 10 points, the Valley of Ashes is overlooked by a billboard depicting what body parts of the bespectacled Doctor T. J. Eckleburg?
eyes [or Owl-Eyes] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156857-)
After revealing he lost one of these objects, a character asks “Do you ever think of yourself as actually dead, lying in a box with a lid on it?” These objects inspire a character to remark how “fingernails grow after death, as does the beard.” Upon succeeding in a game utilizing these objects, a man asks to “Bet me the year of my birth doubled is an odd number.” After speculating about these objects, a man asks “What is the first thing after all the things you've forgotten?” leading his friend to recall “There was a messenger... that's right. We were (*) sent for.” That character says these objects “must be indicative of something, besides the redistribution of wealth.” An absurdist play’s opening scene describes “two Elizabethans passing time in a place without any visible character,” primarily by entertaining themselves using these objects. For 10 points, Tom Stoppard’s Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead begins with the characters using what objects to flip 92 heads in a row?
coins &lt;RK&gt;
8

156866-)
Joseph McElroy’s debut novel, which describes the delusions of David Brooke, is titled for one of these objects. Alan Kaufman edited an anthology, featuring a number of “Outlaw poets,” named for one of these objects. The parrot Methuselah is abandoned by Brother Fowles in a novel titled for one of these objects that features a plague of flesh-eating ants. By trading red, blue, and yellow tickets, Tom Sawyer cheats his way into acquiring one of these objects. A novel titled for one of these objects is narrated by five (*) women in the family of Nathan Price, a ruthless missionary who travels to the Belgian Congo, and is by Barbara Kingsolver. A hollowed-out one of these objects containing whiskey and cards makes Joy realize that Manley Pointer, who sells these objects, is not “Good Country People” in a Flannery O’Connor story. For 10 points, what text inspired works like Saramago’s Gospel According to Jesus Christ?
Bibles [or A Smuggler’s Bible; or The Outlaw Bible of American Poetry; or The Poisonwood Bible; prompt on religious books or texts] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156886-)
In a scene in one of these places, Joseph Brodsky’s death leaves Svetlana distraught, but her friend Selin leaves her to email Ivan about a Russian soap opera. In another novel set in one of these places, Adam Gellin investigates after Hoyt and Vance stumble on the Governor of California (*) receiving oral sex. One of these places is also the setting of a novel in which a farmer’s accidental death at a bacchanal leads Richard and Henry to decide to push fellow classicist Bunny into a ravine. That novel is by Donna Tartt. For 10 points, identify this setting of the novels I Am Charlotte Simmons and The Secret History.
college [accept university, anti-prompt on named colleges e.g. “Harvard”, anyone complaining about the “spoiler” from The Secret History can be quiet, Bunny’s death is literally in the opening pages] &lt;EJW&gt;
7

156899-)
The protagonist of this novel notes how a new green suit has made the summer his friend, and later in this novel compares a cricket match between local landowners and villagers to the Boer War. The epilogue of this novel sees the protagonist return to Brandham Hall and learn that his friend Marcus (*) died during the First World War. That friend’s illness had once allowed this novel’s protagonist to serve as a “secret postman” between aristocratic Marian Maudsley and the farmer Ted Burgess. “The past is a foreign country; they do things differently there” are, for 10 points, the opening words of which 1953 novel by L.P. Hartley?
The Go-Between &lt;HO&gt;
7

156914-)
As an old man, this character is accused of murdering Asa Bush before Abiram White is outed as the killer. After her pirate father “Floating Tom” dies, Hetty’s sister Judith proposes to this man, but is rebuffed. Another of this man's paramours is loved by Davy Muir, who snitches on Jasper Western for spying for the (*) French. In addition to The Pathfinder, this man appears in another novel which climaxes with the cliffside deaths of Uncas and Colonel Munro's attacker, Magua. For 10 points, identify this frontiersman friend of Chingachgook from The Last of the Mohicans.
Natty Bumppo [accept either name] &lt;EJW&gt;
7

156934-)
Three weeks after her cat Frederick dies, a woman with this job gets accused of drunkenly pooping in her friend’s handbag at a shoe store. Another TV character with this job raises her drug-addicted daughter Becky with Bobby Briggs after breaking up with her abusive husband Leo (*) Johnson. In the first episode of one TV series, a woman jilts Barry at the altar and is hired for this job by a peroxide-blonde manager with a crush on her, while another character with this job agrees to see the musical “The Nightman Cometh” to get rid of Charlie Kelly. For 10 points, name this job performed by Rachel Green at Central Perk, serving customers at tables.
waitress [accept waiter, server, etc] &lt;EJW&gt;
7

156938-)
In one story by this author, Mary is told by Stephen that her husband is alive and Margaret’s is dead, though Margaret is told the opposite by Goodman Parker. In another story by this author, one character opines that if the title object were to blow away, Reverend Hooper (*) would be fearful of a dead woman’s glance. In a novel by this author, Pearl is ostracised on the basis that her mother wears the title accessory, a symbol of her affair with Arthur Dimmesdale. For 10 points, name this author of The Wives of the Dead, The Minister’s Black Veil, and The Scarlet Letter.
Nathaniel Hawthorne [accept Nathaniel Hathorne] &lt;Theo&gt;
7

156963-)
In one play by this author, the staff of a segregated hospital talk with Bernie and Jack about the death-date of a blues singer. Another play by this author features a kimono-clad drag queen who mentions how one character gave poisoned meat to his neighbour’s dog; that character, Jerry, falls on a (*) knife held by Peter. At the climax of another play by this author, a son who allegedly died while swerving to avoid a porcupine is realised to be non-existent by Nick and Honey. For 10 points, name this playwright of Zoo Story who wrote of George and Martha’s dinner party in Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?.
Edward Franklin Albee III &lt;JK&gt;
7

157000-)
Helen Vendler argues that the narrator’s abrupt change in relationship to this poetic character led to the original omission of lines like “the dews grew quivering and chill”. The narrator is shocked when this poetic character shows her a decayed house with “the Cornice – in the Ground” and (*) the roof “scarcely visible”. The narrator puts away “my labour and my leisure too” for this figure’s “civility” in a poem which describes how this figure “knew no haste”. For 10 points, name this figure, who kindly stops for the narrator because she cannot stop for him in an Emily Dickinson poem.
Death [accept the Grim Reaper or clear knowledge equivalents] &lt;JK&gt;
7

157012-)
In one poem, this writer says that it is “a curious odor, a moral odor” that draws him to the addressee, and describes how this writer used to keep pressed flowers. In another poem, this poet describes the title city as a man who “lies on his right side, head near the thunder of the waters filling his dreams” and repeats the line (*) “no ideas but in things”. A resurgence in interest in this author’s work was initiated by a poem in which he admits to stealing items which “you were probably saving for breakfast”. For 10 points, name this poet of Paterson who wrote about eating the addressee’s plums in “This is Just to Say”.
William Carlos Williams [prompt on Woman Crush Wednesday] &lt;Theo&gt;
7

157014-)
This animal titles A Journal of Vexillology named after the flag its sponsor organisation assumes to be the first flown over North America. A 2017 revival of a TV show named for this animal saw Aisha Toussaint take over the title role. In 1875, Stéphane Mallarmé translated, and Édouard Manet illustrated, (*) a poem titled for this animal, in which the narrator mourns the death of his beloved Lenore. For 10 points name this bird, associated with the phrase ‘Let the challenge… begin’ in a CBBC game show, and ‘Nevermore’ in a poem by Edgar Allan Poe.
raven [accept The Raven] &lt;DJL&gt;
7

157030-)
In one novel, a character who works in this profession chastises a waitress for serving him a cognac that isn’t Hennessy, shortly after being told by his son that he has delivered letters to Slama. Those characters in this profession are from the Trotta family and appear in a work of (*) Joseph Roth [yo-seph rott]. In another book, many characters are advised to take up this profession by the teacher Kantorek, including the protagonist Paul Baumer. For 10 points, name this profession held by most characters in The Radetzky March, and All Quiet on the Western Front.
soldier [accept military or any specific type of military profession] &lt;Theo&gt;
7

157051-)
Observing this character, her relative claims that “it’s a great advantage not to drink among hard-drinking people”. Upon recalling being carried from the Punch Bowl to keep her shoes dry, this character throws a cigarette and burning match onto the carpet. This character has a voice “full of money”, (*) throws away an expensive pearl necklace, and bursts into tears at the sight of silk shirts. This character’s former lover often looks over to her dock light, which the narrator notices after she accidentally kills Myrtle Wilson. For 10 points, name this character, the cousin of Nick Carraway in The Great Gatsby.
Daisy Fay Buchanan [prompt on just Buchanan] &lt;LC&gt;
7

157068-)
The second book in Charles McCarry’s Paul Christopher series sees the protagonist travel to Vietnam in order to investigate this event, which is considered as a downhill motor race in a J.G. Ballard short story. In James Ellroy’s American Tabloid, two heroin thieves arrange this event in Miami, only to realise it is happening in (*) Texas. Nicholas Branch is an archivist compiling a secret account of this event in Don DeLillo’s novel Libra. A time traveller attempts to prevent this event in a 2011 novel by Stephen King titled for the date this event took place. For 10 points, name this event, which is the subject of King’s 11/22/63.
the assassination of John F. Kennedy [accept the Kennedy assassination; accept any answer indicating that John F. Kennedy was once alive and was then shot dead] &lt;HO&gt;
7

157070-)
In one work, this poet wrote that the title concept was “a common topic on / the Transatlantic boats”, and asked whether it would “alter my life altogether”. This poet noted that “we, the inconstant ones, are constantly homesick for” the title landscape in one work, and in another poem, he described how a certain event (*) “was not an important failure”. That work by this author of “In Praise of Limestone” opens “About suffering they were never wrong, the old Masters.” The author of a poem asking to “stop all the clocks”, for 10 points, name this poet of “Musee des Beaux Arts” and “Funeral Blues”.
Wystan Hugh Auden &lt;JK&gt;
7

157079-)
One member of this family tries to help a young girl who speaks no English get home and feeds her bread, but is attacked by her Italian family. A female member of this family had the maiden name Bascomb, while another member of this family likes to watch golf, to see if they will call for (*) a caddy. A girl from this family loses her virginity to Dalton Ames and names her firstborn after her brother Quentin, who later kills himself by jumping into the Charles River. For 10 points, name this Mississippi family of fading aristocrats from Faulkner’s The Sound and the Fury.
Compson &lt;JS&gt;
7

157081-)
NOTE TO PLAYERS: TWO ANSWERS REQUIRED One of these people suggested that the other would lie about driving the car that JFK was in when he was shot. After meeting a woman with dwarfism at a carnival, a character based on one of these people is rebuffed by Joel; that character, Idabel Thompkins, features in the other’s debut novel, (*) Other Voices, Other Rooms. Catherine Keener and Sandra Bullock have starred as one of these people, while Toby Jones and Philip Seymour Hoffman have portrayed the other in films like Infamous. For 10 points, name these two writers who worked together on In Cold Blood and were represented as Scout and Dill in To Kill a Mockingbird.
Harper Lee and Truman Capote [accept Tru and Nelle] &lt;LC&gt;
7

157115-)
Towns in this place include Escrow, Hunghung, and Bonk [be-yonk] whilst events that have occurred here include the execution of Lorenzo the Kind and the Borogravian-Zlobenian War. Another event in this place, at Bad Blintz, involved a group of unusual rats and a stupid-looking kid (*) with a pipe. In this place, the compass directions are “turnwise, widdershins, rimwards, and hubwards”, the latter referring to the central spire of Cori Celesti [korry selesti]. Stories set in this place include the characters Nanny Ogg, the Wee Free Men, and Rincewind. For 10 points, name this “flat-earth” carried on four elephants, created by Terry Pratchett.
Discworld &lt;CB&gt;
7

157120-)
This author considered how “to disappear” had become a transitive verb in Spanish in an account of her 1982 trip to El Salvador. BZ’s suicide leads Carter’s ex-wife Maria to be institutionalised in a novel by this author, who wrote a 2011 memoir about the death of her daughter Quintana Roo, (*) Blue Nights. In one essay, this author describes meeting drug-dealer Deadeye on Haight Street in San Francisco, while another of her essays opens with the line “we tell ourselves stories in order to live”. For 10 points, name this American author of The White Album and Slouching Towards Bethlehem.
Joan Didion &lt;EJW&gt;
7

157132-)
In a poem from this movement, Beauty “was all symmetry and music” as a man waded through a field of “Smoke, Lilies, and Jade”. One poet from this movement described a dead woman “with two white roses on her breasts, white candles at head and feet”, and wondered “why flesh that mirrors him (*) must someday die” in “Yet Do I Marvel”. Another poet of this movement declared that “my soul has grown deep like the rivers” and asked “what happens to a dream deferred?”. For 10 points, name this literary movement of Countee Cullen and Langston Hughes.
Harlem Renaissance [accept The New Negro Movement] &lt;LC&gt;
7

157171-)
One poem about this person asks “what fires run, what craving wakes?” within them, and describes this person as a “panther” following the poet. In another poem, this person is equated with the figure of Kindness who hands the poet (*) “two children, two roses”. Another poem implies that this person was “the vampire who said he was you and drank my blood”; that poem appears in a collection put together by this man in 1965. For 10 points, name this man with a “Meinkampf look” who responded to works like “Daddy” with his own collection Birthday Letters, the poet husband of Sylvia Plath.
Ted Hughes &lt;JK&gt;
7

157175-)
One character in this novel claims that the reason they sketch every new animal that they see is that “whatever in creation exists without my knowledge exists without my consent.” Another character in this novel has the letters “HT” branded on his forehead, and meets the nameless protagonist in a cell in (*) Chihuahua. This novel ends with the “kid” being confronted by the “judge” in an outhouse, after which the latter dances naked with strippers. For 10 points, name this novel about how the kid collects Native American scalps with the Glanton Gang, written by Cormac McCarthy.
Blood Meridian or The Evening Redness in the West
7

157177-)
This author’s early works include a biography of a favourite actor, James Dean Is Not Dead. In one novel by this author, a dean uses two champagne bottles to beat Justy and Nails to death, after the murder of a tramp curses a Boston relay team. That novel features a sex scene in which Ezra develops a “bulbous (*) salutation”. This author lambasted Geoff Travis in an autobiography which was controversially first published as a Penguin Modern Classic in 2013. For 10 points, name this author of List of the Lost, best-known for writing “This Charming Man” as the frontman of The Smiths.
Steven Patrick Morrissey &lt;JK&gt;
7

157187-)
In one work of this type, an old man is found dead with a boot in his mouth, probably related to his fetish for Célestine’s shoes. Characters routinely fall over a scraper as they enter the protagonist’s house in another work of this type. In addition to that work featuring (*) Mr Cummings and Mr Gowing [GOING], a short story of this type concerns Poprishchin, a civil servant who believes he has found letters sent between two dogs, while another describes a bookcase set on hinges acting as the entrance to a secret annex of Prinsengracht 263. For 10 points, name these works, like ones “of a Madman” or “of a Young Girl”.
diaries [accept journals; accept memoirs] &lt;HO&gt;
7

157206-)
One of this author’s plays ends with the line “Most of us lie to ourselves, darling, most of us”, spoken by boarding house-owner Constance Tuckerman. This author’s depiction of an anti-Nazi named Julia in her memoir Pentimento was shown to be a lie by Mary (*) McCarthy. This author of The Autumn Garden described Mary Tilford accusing her teachers of being lesbian lovers in one work, while in another of her plays, the Hubbards’ cotton mill plans are disrupted by Regina Giddens. For 10 points, name this playwright of The Children’s Hour and The Little Foxes.
Lillian Hellman &lt;JK&gt;
7

157207-)
In one work, a group of characters achieve this feat when their ship is lifted by a waterspout and encounter an army of ant-cavalry and lettuce-winged birds. In addition to A True Story, in another work, a capsule coated with Cavorite allows Bedford and Cavor to do this. In a series of two novels, an enormous (*) cannon is built by the Baltimore Gun Club to allow three men to perform this action “From the Earth”. For 10 points, name this feat described in works by H. G. Wells and Jules Verne, involving making a journey first undertaken by Michael Collins, Buzz Aldrin and Neil Armstrong.
travel to the Moon [accept any answer that implies motion towards and eventual arrival at the Moon] &lt;YY&gt;
7

157210-)
In one musical, two characters advocate this action by noting that “at Wanamaker’s and Saks and Klein’s/a lesson I’ve been taught/you can’t get alterations on a dress you haven’t bought.” A character in Cabaret sings that with this action “the old despair/that was often there/suddenly ceases to be.” (*) Bobby asks for this to be done to him “a little” after Amy sings, in a frantic patter song, “thank you all/for the gifts and flowers/thank you all now/it’s back to the showers” because she is not doing this “today” in Company. For 10 points, name this action which Tevye’s daughters do without a matchmaker.
marry someone [accept word forms or with any direct object] &lt;JG&gt;
7

157220-)
The first product this man advertised was “invisible ink”, and he set up a pharmaceutical company that funded the development of antitoxins for tetanus, diphtheria, and gas gangrene with Silas Burroughs. Red or Dead’s HIV awareness sandals and the papers of (*) Francis Crick are items included in a London library named for this man. For ten points, name this pharmaceutical entrepreneur and collector whose legacy includes a trust dedicated to biomedical research.
Sir Henry Solomon Wellcome &lt;LC&gt;
7

157233-)
This character menaces “I don’t know what’s going to happen to you either” in a scene that’s followed later by this character buckling his seatbelt before answering (+) “Your driver” to a question. This character jokes “I’m not done” and tells one character “I recommend you buy American” after being threatened with a gun. The main villain compares himself to a dog chasing its tail after approaching this character in a (*) hospital, giving him a gun, and telling him to “introduce a little anarchy,” and that villain had kidnapped this character and Rachel. This character repeatedly says, “I make my own luck” while using a coin that has one side scratched after an attack that burns half this character’s face off and leads to his corruption. For 10 points, name this metaphorically and literally two-faced attorney from The Dark Knight.
Harvey Dent (accept Two-Face until mentioned)
8

157235-)
This character tells a story about how as a three year old he soiled his pants rather than lift the lid to a toilet, as an example of his inability to make change his life. While working, this character observes a guidance counselor looking for the (+) “perfect dozen” of eggs, and the scene introducing this character is followed by the scene card “Vilification.” This character deliberates between Caitlin and Veronica, the latter of whom brings him lasagna. This character played by Brian O’Halloran flees a wake he ruined with his friend Randal, with whom he argues about the death of (*) contractors on the Death Star. The original ending to the film shows this character being shot by a robber. This character repeatedly says, “I’m not even supposed to be here today” over the course of a black-and-white film while working as one of the title employees in a Quick Stop convenience store in Kevin Smith’s first film. For 10 points, give this protagonist in Clerks who shares his name with an Italian poet.
Dante Hicks (accept either or both names.)
8

157262-)
This essay argues that Marcel Carné’s Drôle de drame is successful where the films of Hitchcock are not, and at one point it asserts the title thing (+) “sees everything in quotation marks.” This essay cites a craftsman making a lamp with a snake coiled around it, and it asserts “homosexuals [...] more or less (*) invented” the title thing. This essay lists “Scopitone films,” “Flash Gordon comics,” “stag films seen without lust,” and much of Art Noveau as having the title quality, and it was first collected in Against Interpretation. This essay consists of 58 thoughts on a style defined as a naive “seriousness that fails” with a “spirit of extravagance.” For 10 points, name this Susan Sontag essay about an aesthetic style that allows one to say “it’s good because it’s awful.”
“Notes on ‘Camp’”
8

157265-)
This television show’s protagonist asks out a girl wearing a pin reading “HOW’S IT GOING TO END?” who then accepts by writing in her notebook. In a tense moment on this show, several apparent (+) doctors must pretend to perform surgery, and Meryl has a nervous breakdown on this show after the protagonist drives through a forest fire in a spontaneous attempt to go to New Orleans. This show’s protagonist frequently thinks about travelling to Fiji, and uses a plastic snowman and a tunnel to trick his friend Marlon and leave his house. This show’s title character has a morbid fear of the (*) water due to his father’s death. The main character of this show is fond of saying, “In case I don’t see you ... good afternoon, good evening, and good night,” and it’s run by the eerily Steve Jobs-like Christof. This show’s title character makes a seafaring attempt to escape after realizing the truth of his existence. For 10 points, name this TV show centered on the life of a man played by Jim Carrey in a film about that show.
The Truman Show
8

157266-)
Immediately after the antagonist of this film finishes meetings, he lies back on his couch and gets a shave. After a group of characters in this film fix another’s drone, they fly up to his room, only to see him having (+) hung himself. One character in this film consistently repeats the refrain “All is well,” and after the protagonists of this film help deliver Mona’s child in a rainstorm, “Virus” finally accepts them. The protagonists of this film blindly shuffle the papers on a (*) professor’s desk after he refuses to accept their exams for being late, and it ends with Raju and Farhan discovering that Rancho has become a highly successful inventor. For 10 points, name this Bollywood comedy about a trio of students at a rigorous engineering college.
3 Idiots
8

157272-)
This woman once said that the only unspoiled star she’d ever seen was Lassie. She mentored Jean-Pierre  Dorléac, and she won an Oscar for a casual, summer-inspired (+) capri set from Roman Holiday. This woman created Dorothy Lamour’s sarong dress in The Hurricane. This woman won an Oscar for Sabrina for Hepburn-worn dresses actually designed by (*) Hubert de Givenchy, though this designer did make moderations to the little black dress from Breakfast at Tiffany’s. Brad Bird denied claims that Edna Mode from The Incredibles was based on this person, whose appearance included an iconic cropped haircut with bangs and round spectacles. For 10 points, name this legendary costume designer with a surname that’s a body part.
Edith Head
8

157274-)
In one shot, these things can be seen resting on a table next to a glass of whiskey while Melanie Ralston lies on a couch and Ordell Robbie discusses gun running. In one film, these things can be seen hanging out of a car window as Abernathy Ross unknowingly sleeps while (+) Stuntman Mike approaches. Bridget von Hammersmark is strangled after being asked to place one of these things in a lap for examination. While laying in the back of a truck, The (*) Bride talks to herself concerning one of these things, and Tony Rocky Horror was supposedly thrown out of a window for interacting with one of these things belonging to Mia Wallace. These things have appeared in films like Jackie Brown and Inglorious Basterds, and in one case belonged to Uma Thurman in Kill Bill. For 10 points, name this body part for which Quentin Tarantino has a rumored “fetish.”
feet in Quentin Tarantino films (anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on “ankles” or “toes”; prompt on “women” or “people,” I guess... I mean I know these buzzes happen in the heat of the moment, but the pronoun was “things”...)
8

157282-)
This character hallucinates a vision of a former lieutenant after accidentally suffocating the albino Winter. A “donkey” named (+) Red saves this character’s life shortly before he throws a grenade at a tank, ultimately triggering an avalanche that kills a large group of soldiers. This character is advised by his red-haired friend Maurice, and his son Blue Eyes is killed by the Colonel. This character is nearly killed by his own lieutenant Koba, and as Tom Felton’s character beats him, this character yells out a mighty, (*) “No!” After being raised by James Franco’s character and treated with a drug intended to treat Alzheimer’s, this character becomes the leader of his kind when that drug causes a global pandemic. This character is played using mocap by Andy Serkis in the “Rise,” “Dawn,” and “War” installments of a trilogy. For 10 points, this leader of his species in the rebooted Planet of the Apes series, named for a Roman dictator.
Caesar
8

157292-)
Description acceptable. John Tavener’s Fragments of a Prayer plays during this character’s first implied appearance. This character’s (sort of) predecessor is named Diego, and it’s revealed that this character (+) will be named Dylan after another character’s deceased son as that latter character passes out on a rowboat. As this character is observed being carried down a stairwell, stunned (*) soldiers order a ceasefire. This character’s existence is revealed in a barn scene in which Kee undresses, and Julian is killed at the beginning of a long take car chase as the Fishes pursue this character’s mother, who is being escorted by Clive Owen’s character Theo to safety. For 10 points, name this character from an Alfonso Cuaron film, the first child born in nearly two decades.
the baby from Children of Men (accept any suitable description/synonym for “baby,” including the child of man (I guess); prompt on partial answer; accept Dylan before read, the baby’s ultimate name; do not accept or prompt on just the “mother from Children of Men” or “Kee”)
8

157304-)
This author’s writings loosely inspired a film in which the engineer Maboul faces off against the “Giant of the Snows.” A film based on this non-British writer’s books includes a shot of woman’s faces peering out of the stars of the (+) Big Dipper, and The Conquest of the Pole was inspired by this man’s books. Members of the Institute of Incoherent Geography ride a train off a mountain and into the mouth of a gaping sun in a film based on this man’s writings. A film based on this author’s writings opens with several men in comical wizard-like hats arguing, and ends with Selenites pursuing the protagonists as a capsule-like vehicle falls off a cliff into the ocean. This author’s work inspired a shot of a (*) spaceship landing in the eye of an anthropomorphized astronomical entity in a 1902 film, and his writings heavily inspired George Méliès’s early silent films The Impossible Voyage and A Trip to the Moon. For 10 points, name this French science-fiction writer.
Jules Verne
8

157317-)
As a child, this character is told, “they usually pick up the garbage in an hour,” before later being told in French, “and your (+) outfit is totally ridiculous!” This character is first met after Squeaker is rescued from a tree. This character resides on the island Nomanisan with his assistant (*) Mirage, and his real name is Buddy Pine. Prompted by a character who tells him, “I work alone,” this character invents the Omnidroid, a tripodal robot that fights the Parr family. This character wears a black-and-white costume with an S on it that crucially and fatally includes a cape, and he declares that “When everyone’s super....no one will be.” For 10 points, name this nerdy supervillain from The Incredibles.
Syndrome (accept Buddy Pine before read)
8

157319-)
Among this actress’s roles in literary adaptations included as Blanca Trueba in The House of the Spirits, May Welland in Age of Innocence, Abigail Turner in (+) The Crucible, and Jo March in Little Women. This woman executive produced and starred as a girl with borderline personality disorder in the film Girl, Interrupted, and she played Kim Boggs in a film in which the title character causes “snow” by making (*) ice sculptures. This actress repeatedly made the tabloids for her engagement to Johnny Depp and a 2001 shoplifting charge, after having earlier appeared as Veronica Sawyer in a parody of teen films where she plots to kill the title popular girls. For 10 points, name this actress who starred in Heathers and Edward Scissorhands, and more recently as distressed mother Joyce Byers in Stranger Things.
Winona Ryder
8

157356-)
A member of the QuinPar Intelligence Agency has this condition in a 2017 film about a “SGx29” mutation that confers superpowers. A woman with this condition imagines herself saying “You can’t run,” before later stabbing her attacker in the neck with a (+) corkscrew as an alarm system blares. Chris Overton and Rachel Shenton won a Live Action Short Oscar for a film about a “child” with this condition. A woman with this condition fails to notice her neighbor being killed right next to her kitchen window in a 2016 (*) home invasion horror film, and Millicent Simmons plays a girl with this condition who blames herself for her brother’s death after he activates a toy spaceship. Baby Driver’s foster father has this condition, as does the daughter in a horror film that also starred John Krasinski and Emily Blunt. For 10 points, give this condition central to characters in the films Hush, The Silent Child, and A Quiet Place, who often communicate in sign language.
deaf (accept hard of hearing; prompt on “deaf-mute”; prompt on orthogonal answers similar to “uses sign language” by asking “Performed as a result of what condition?”)
8

157373-)
One woman in this film tells a man to orgasm on a fruit platter, after which she eats said fruit. A man in this film jokes about hiring a replacement daughter to CEO (+) Henneberg. After a man’s elderly dog dies in this film, he makes an impromptu flight to surprise a woman attempting to convince an oil company to perform outsourcing. In this film’s climactic scene, the title character arrives in an outrageous kukeri costume during a naked birthday brunch being hosted by Ines, a woman stressed while working as a business consultant in Romania. The title character of this film directed by (*) Maren Ade is actually Ines Conradi’s father in a wig and fake teeth, pretending to be a “life coach.” For 10 points, name this 2016 German dramedy about a father who creates a new persona to prank his daughter.
Toni Erdmann
8

157432-)
Nicholas Cage’s son with this feature is taken away by angelic aliens at the end of Knowing. At the end of the Summer section of Requiem for a Dream, Marlon Wayans’ character agrees to work for a drug dealer with this feature before the car is shot up by a rival gang. In one film, a character with this feature writes “do it, coward” in her blood on a door before eventually killing her crossbow-wielding assailant with a corkscrew to the neck. In a recent film, a girl with this feature utilizes the (*) anomalous frequency of a device meant to correct for it to ward off the aliens plaguing her family’s farmhouse. For 10 points, John Krasinski’s daughter in A Quiet Place requires hearing aids due to what feature, shared with the protagonist of Hush.
Deafness [or hearing-impaired, accept deaf-mute, accept anything implying that the person is deaf or cannot hear]
9

157434-)
When exiting a predecessor to this location, people are asked if they believe in God and are incinerated if they respond “no.” Insubordinate employees who work at this location are subjected to a lobotomy-esque procedure, after which they frequently remark on the color of their room and have a twitch in their right hand. A criminal in this location, nicknamed “The Wren,” dies when acid is sprayed into his eyes. In one room in this location, sound-activated spikes threaten to come out of the walls and impale those within. Rooms whose (*) numbers are powers of primes are found to be rigged with traps in this location. For 10 points, name this location, the subject of namesake Canadian films, which is made up of a series of smaller boxes, some of which are armed with deadly booby traps.
The Cube
9

157438-)
After pretending to dial 911 and injecting his wife with succinylcholine, Harrison Ford’s character in What Lies Beneath dies in this manner. In Saw III, Jeff saves Judge Halden from this sort of death by burning all the memorabilia concerning his son. Most of the characters in Sanctum die in this manner. In a tragic homage to her daughter’s death, Sasha Grey’s character in Would You Rather dies in this manner. In The Prestige, each of the (*) clones of the protagonist die in this manner after they disappear through the floor. In revenge for someone who dies in this way in another film, that character’s mother sticks an arrow through the bottom of a counselor’s bed in order to cut through his neck. For 10 points, Jason Vorhees originally died by what method while at Camp Crystal Lake.
Drowning [prompt on anything that implies running out of air]
9

157475-)
A character in this work says that she and her mother are “exclusive” because “We don’t speak to everyone – or they don’t speak to us.” A man stays in this novella’s opening location ostensibly to study, but really to conduct an affair with a “very clever foreign lady”; he later helps Mrs. Walker try to coax a girl into a carriage. In this novella, “American candy’s the best candy” and “American men are the best” are declarations made by the boy (*) Randolph before he introduces a man to his sister. That man’s aunt, Mrs. Costello, disapproves of the title character because she visits a castle with a man she hasn’t known long, typifying her “inscrutable combination of audacity and innocence.” This work’s title character accompanies Giovanelli to the Colosseum and dies from Roman fever. Frederick Winterbourne falls in love with the title innocent American girl in, for 10 points, what Henry James novella?
Daisy Miller: A Study &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157478-)
A character in this story is described as “passing from generation to generation – dear, inescapable, impervious, tranquil, and perverse.” That character in this story looks like a church angel when her hair is cut short after sickness and is described as part of a “tableau” of a white figure behind a “spraddled silhouette” with a horsewhip. This story’s title character offers china-painting classes and insists that a mayor who has been dead for ten years allowed her to evade (*) taxes in Jefferson before lime is sprinkled around her house to mask a smell. This story’s title character mourns her father’s death, then dates Homer Barron and buys arsenic, ostensibly for killing rats. This story ends with a single strand of gray hair found on a pillow. For 10 points, name this William Faulkner short story in which the title Southern woman kills and sleeps with her lover’s body.
“A Rose for Emily” &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
7

157494-)
This author writes “People are trapped in history and history is trapped in them” in an essay in which he describes a visit to a Swiss village. In another essay, he writes that people have a “bitter expectancy” about the title neighborhood’s future, comparing it to a long, hard winter. This author of “Stranger in the Village” prefaced one of his essays with Kipling’s “White Man’s Burden.” That essay ends with a quotation about Noah, which gives the title of a book by this author. An essay from that book discusses Frazier’s “cities of destruction” and is subtitled (*) “Letter to My Nephew on the 100th Anniversary of Emancipation.” This author, who responded to Richard Wright in one collection of essays, included “My Dungeon Shook” in his collection The Fire Next Time. For 10 points, name this American expatriate author of Giovanni’s Room and Go Tell It on the Mountain.
James Arthur Baldwin &lt;MT, American Literature&gt;
7

157506-)
Henry James complained about this short story that “if it meant anything, it would mean too much.” After the wind howls, one character in this story yells, “You may as well fear him as he fear you!” The narrator asks whether a basin in this story contains water or liquid flame. One character in this story introduces himself by saying that he helped the protagonist’s grandfather whip a Quaker woman and his father burn down an Indian village. That character gives a staff to a woman who taught the protagonist his catechism, named (*) Goody Cloyse. This story’s protagonist snubs his pink-ribbon-wearing wife before a closing observation that “no hopeful verse” is carved upon the protagonist’s tombstone. That man found villagers, including his wife Faith, taking place in a possibly dreamt Satanic ritual. For 10 points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne short story.
“Young Goodman Brown” &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
7

157513-)
The speaker of one poem by this author asks the addressee to “permit me the present tense” after asserting that “you are not my doctor / you are not my cure.” In another poem, the narrator observes that “A child is not a poem / a poem is not a child” while watching her daughter “learning how to spell” and “how to make spells.” This author of “Is/Not” and “Spelling” wrote a novel that imitates the style of ancient Greek dramas with a chorus of twelve maids led by (*) Melantho who were hanged for their supposed betrayals. In another novel, the title character has been institutionalized for the murders of Nancy Montgomery and Thomas Kinnear but hires Simon Jordan to investigate her in hopes she will be proven hysteric. For 10 points, name this author of The Penelopiad and Alias Grace who chronicled Offred’s life in Gilead in The Handmaid’s Tale.
Margaret Atwood &lt;MT, British Literature&gt;
7

157535-)
This poem asks “Have you practiced so long to learn to read?” and promises the addressee “you shall no longer take things at second or third hand” because “you shall possess the origin of all poems.” One group in this work does not “think whom they souse with spray,” and this poem ends by claiming “You will hardly know who I am or what I mean, / But I shall… filter and fibre your blood.” The protagonist gives the answers “a uniform hieroglyphic,” “the handkerchief of the Lord,” or “the beautiful uncut hair of (*) graves” after a child asks “What is the grass?” This poem’s narrator claims “I loaf and invite my soul” and “Very well then, I contradict myself,” as he “sounds” a “barbaric yawp over the roofs of the world.” For 10 points, name this Walt Whitman poem in Leaves of Grass which begins “I celebrate myself, and sing myself.”
“Song of Myself” [prompt on Leaves of Grass] &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
7

157538-)
In one work about these things, The Treachery of Images is shown 10 times in a row, and a story is told about Carl, who drinks and drives. That work was inspired by another one of these things that often cites The Spirit. That first work about these things highlights the Japanese use of “aspect-to-aspect transitions” and shows an implied murder to discuss “closure” in the section “Blood in the Gutter.” That book about these things creates a triangle diagram between “reality,” “language,” and “the picture plane.” Fredric (*) Wertham argued that these works promoted homosexuality and violence in his book Seduction of the Innocent. Scott McCloud wrote a notable work in this medium about Understanding [them]. Artists in this “cool” medium include Art Spiegelman and Will Eisner. For 10 points, name these publications of “visual sequential art” that include Batman and Superman.
comic books [or comics; or graphic novels] &lt;JC, Social Science (Sociology)&gt;
7

157546-)
This author criticizes an object with the sick burns “As for butterflies, I can hardly conceive of one’s attending upon you” and “You lack half wit.” One work by this author of “To a Steam Roller” hopes that “the autocrats among us can be ‘literalists of the imagination,’” while another describes “a solid-pointed star, which… stands for hope” in a town that Durer would have seen a reason for living in. Another work by this mentor of Elizabeth Bishop describes “a near artichoke with head and legs” as “another (*) armored animal.” One work by this author of “The Steeple Jack” and “The Pangolin” originally contained lines about “hands that can grasp, eyes that can dilate,” “imaginary gardens with real toads in them,” and “things that are important beyond all this fiddle” but was cut down to one line. For 10 points, name this author who wrote “I, too, dislike it” in “Poetry.”
Marianne Moore &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
7

157595-)
One man in this play tells the story of his ancestor, a ship captain who unexpectedly threw passengers into the sea when the boat started to leak. In this play’s epilogue, that man periodically “turns off” the sound of his friends arguing about politics to appreciate a winter’s day in the park near a fountain. He is visited by his “thirty-second” great-grandfather, “not counting the bastards,” who sings “Prepare, prepare, the Infinite Descent.” After angrily wiping off makeup, one character is told “Look up” and sees a single gray (*) feather fall from this play’s title creatures, who bring the message “Stop moving!” The relationship of Louis Ironson and Prior Walter is broken off because of AIDS in this play in which Ethel Rosenberg haunts Roy Cohn. For 10 points, name this Tony Kushner play, subtitled “A Gay Fantasia on National Themes.”
Angels in America &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
7

157623-)
A play by this author begins with a character described as the “Muhammad Ali” of checkers and the “checker champ of ’Nam,” playing against Turnbo. In another play by this author, characters sing a song about the possum-treeing dog Blue and the protagonist refers to death as “nothing but a fastball on the outside corner.” Youngblood saves up to buy Rena a house after Booster takes over Jim Becker’s unofficial (*) taxi cab business in Jitney, a play by this author. In another play by this author, men burned alive in a train car become the Ghosts of Yellow Dog, and Berniece and Willie Boy try to exorcise Sutter’s ghost. The mentally disabled Gabriel blows his horn to end another of this man’s plays, in which Cory and Rose bury the patriarch Troy Maxson. For 10 points, name this African-American playwright of the Pittsburgh Cycle, including The Piano Lesson and Fences.
August Wilson &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
7

157626-)
This poet writes that “just like moons and like suns / with the certainty of tides… I” will perform the title action. In another poem, this writer says that an object is “no less to Midas than the mendicant / and no less to you now than the mastodon then.” Neither of those poems were included in her most famous poetry collection, which includes the section “Where Love is a Scream of Anguish.” This author of (*) Just Give Me a Cool Drink of Water ’fore I diiie instructs the reader to “say simply / very simply / good morning” and became selectively mute as a result of an assault. She said that she is “the hope and the dream of the slave” in her poem “Still I Rise.” She wrote a poem that opens with “A rock, a river, a tree” that was read at Bill Clinton’s Inauguration. For 10 points, name this author of “On the Pulse of Morning” and I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings.
Maya Angelou &lt;MT, American Literature&gt;
7

157664-)
A character in this novel claims that the sight of a man nude reminds her of “turkey neck and turkey gizzards.” That character predicts she will be “flying back and forth between one mutually exclusive thing and another for the rest of my days” and was compared to “Salinger’s Franny… in Hell” in one review. In this novel, the protagonist hears “the old brag of my heart” as “I am, I am, I am” before stepping into a room for (*) evaluation at this novel’s end. That character describes the possibilities of her life as figs in a fig tree among which she sees herself starving to death, and she loses her virginity to the professor Irwin after her boyfriend Buddy gets tuberculosis. This novel’s protagonist, a fashion magazine writer, undergoes shock therapy during “the summer they electrocuted the Rosenbergs.” For 10 points, name this novel about Esther Greenwood’s struggle with mental illness, by Sylvia Plath.
The Bell Jar &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
7

157668-)
In a work of literary criticism whose title repeats this poet’s name seven times, Daniel Hoffman claims that this poet’s best work declares “The Universe is a plot of God.” The author of that pseudo-astronomical “prose poem” Eureka also wrote a poem where a crowd watches “vast formless things” with “Condor wings” putting on “a play of hopes and fears / while the orchestra breathes fitfully / the music of the spheres” and another in which the title character is compared to (*) “Psyche, from the regions which / are Holy Land!” This author wrote “the play is the tragedy, ‘Man’” in “The Conqueror Worm” and “to the glory that was Greece / and the grandeur that was Rome” in “To Helen.” Another of his narrators asks the title creature “Is there – is there balm in Gilead?” and is met with the answer “Nevermore.” For 10 points, name this Gothic author of “The Raven.”
Edgar Allan Poe &lt;MT, American Literature&gt;
7

157685-)
In a novel, a character is described as looking at the results of this action like Ajax at his slaughtered sheep. In another novel, Frank Churchill is disapproved of as flighty by Mr. Knightley, because he rides to London solely to do this. In a short story, a girl who is told she has an “awfully kissable mouth” goes from saying things like “Hello, shell shock!” and talking about her car to (*) attracting boys by saying she will later do this action. After being criticized by her aunt for not looking neat, Maggie Tulliver does this and is embarrassed in The Mill on the Floss. In a story centered around this action, the protagonist does it at the Sevier Hotel due to her cousin’s urging and is embarrassed because she looks like a flapper. For 10 points, name this thing that happens unwillingly to Marjorie in the F. Scott Fitzgerald story “Bernice Bobs Her Hair.”
getting one’s hair cut [accept word forms] &lt;JK, British Literature&gt; Bonuses
7

157701-)
A work written during this conflict quotes songs about the “Lonesome Valley” heard while teaching in “Life on the Sea Islands.” That author, Charlotte Forten, as well as an author whose diary vows “to tell the story in my own way,” Mary Chesnut, are mentioned in a work which praises a novel about Miss Ravenel by John William De Forest. In another novel whose title comes from an Ernest Dowson poem, the protagonist auctions off a dance for “one hundred fifty dollars in gold,” buys a sawmill, and has a (*) miscarriage due to falling down the stairs after this war, which was described in Edmund Wilson’s Patriotic Gore. In that novel, Melanie gives birth and Ashley Wilkes fights in this conflict. That novel’s protagonist declares “Tomorrow is another day” after she is left by Rhett Butler. For 10 points, name this war, the setting of Gone with the Wind.
the Civil War &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
7

157709-)
Description acceptable. After dying in one of these events, one character looks like “she had choked a little in giving up… tremendous vitality” due to her ripped mouth. In another novel, Dr. Robert Vaughan plots the death of Elizabeth Taylor in one of these events. After his wife dies in one of these events, a character points out an expensive dog leash before saying “God sees everything!” Another character in that work claims “I hate careless people” before stating that “it takes two to make” one of these events. A novel about fetishes for these events is by J. G. (*) Ballard. After one character’s husband finds out she is sleeping with Tom, she dies in this manner under the eyes of T. J. Eckleburg by Daisy Buchanan. Willy Loman dies in this way in Death of a Salesman. For 10 points, name this event which kills Myrtle in The Great Gatsby.
car crash [or car accident; accept equivalents; prompt on accident or murder or suicide; prompt on Crash] &lt;JC, American Literature&gt;
7

157738-)
One of these objects that makes the lines in a woman’s face go into “a fierce and different radiation” is picked up with the same “grace and care” as an egg from underneath a hen, and that woman cries “Look at that dog!” to distract a man from seeing one of these objects. In another story, a woman explodes “like a piece of machinery that had been given one ounce of pressure too much” after a woman with an identical hat (*) proffers one of these objects. In another story, an elderly woman steals one of these things that fell out of a hunter’s pocket. A racist woman ignores her son Julian’s urgings and offers a “bright new” one of these things to a black child on the bus in Flannery O’Connor’s “Everything that Rises Must Converge.” For 10 points, name this object that Phoenix Jackson finds in the road in Eudora Welty’s “A Worn Path,” which she uses to pay for medicine.
coins [accept specific types of coins like nickel or penny; prompt on money] &lt;JK, American Literature&gt;
7

157753-)
An Egyptian story named for one of these people begins with his master saying “do as you wish; it is wearying to talk to you” and ends with that master saying “Do not continue… does one give water to a goose at dawn that will be slaughtered in the morning?” after hearing that person’s story about being turned into a snake. In the Story of Wenamun, a Tjekker prince attempts to kill a group of these people while robbing Wenamun, who commanded that group of these people to take him to (*) Tyre to fetch wood for a royal barge. One of the few complete ancient Egyptian short stories is about a shipwrecked one of these people. For ten points, name these people who frequently plied trade routes to Phoenicia and Punt in Ancient Egypt.
sailor &lt;JM&gt;
9

157790-)
A mother cuts out her daughter’s frenum to prevent her from being “tongue-tied” in the last section of this work. As a child, the narrator of this work torments a girl at school who refuses to speak. The narrator of this work calls a mentally handicapped boy “the monster” because he keeps following her, and her aunt is sent to a mental hospital when she believes that Mexican “ghosts” want to kill her. A woman in this work gives birth inside of a pigsty, and later throws herself and her child down the town well because the villagers believe the child is illegitimate. That “talk-story” about the (*)“No-Name Woman” is delivered by Brave Orchid. The second section of this work is titled “White Tigers,” and is a retelling of the legend of Fa Mu Lan. For ten points, name this semi-fictional memoir by Maxine Hong-Kingston.
The Woman Warrior: Memoirs of a Girlhood Among Ghosts &lt;ES&gt;
9

157810-)
Gregoire uses his conversations with the dead criminal Angoualima to gain the confidence to kill his girlfriend Germaine in one novel by this author. In another a spirit animal muses with a baobab tree about why he didn’t die with his violent master Kibandi. This writer linked his own experience as an African teaching at UCLA to that of his subject in an open letter to James (*) Baldwin written 20 years after his death, Letter to Jimmy. This author’s absurdism lent him the nickname “African Samuel Beckett”. Many of this author’s novels are based on his experiences growing up in the city of Pointe-Noire. For 10 points name this Congolese born French writer of Black Moses and African Psycho.
Alain Mabanckou &lt;DJ&gt; &lt;Ed. JM&gt;
9

157815-)
One of this author’s novels ends with the protagonist declaring that he is “inside you, but not in a weird way” as he dies. That protagonist delivers DVDs and sells expired canned goods before settling on his business of choice. Another of this author’s protagonists is mentored in a consulting job at Underwood Samson by Jim and asks a woman he met on a trip to (*) Greece to pretend he is her dead ex-boyfriend during sex. As well as writing about a bottled water magnate in How to Get Filthy Rich in Rising Asia, this author wrote a novel about a man who is possibly assassinated by a CIA agent after growing a beard and moving back home following 9/11. For 10 points, name this Pakistani author of The Reluctant Fundamentalist.
Mohsin Hamid &lt;JM&gt;
9

157821-)
A group of people in this work name a dog they find Ditto because it is just like them. The narrator reimagines Buñuel's The Exterminating Angel and tells the story to his companions but apologizes to Buñuel for changing the setting. The narrator repeatedly fantasizes about touching the black stone and promises several people they will go to Mecca before they die. These deaths in this novel provide a relief because they can hear the Ustad's voice and go (*) outside. The narrator's father is mocked as a pimp who spent too much on djellabas and he wonders whether his involvement in a failed coup was an attempt to kill his father or King Hasan II. For 10 points name this novel by Tahar Ben Jalloun in which the narrator experiences the title darkness while trapped for 20 years in a Moroccan Prison.
This Blinding Absence of Light &lt;DJ&gt;
9

157833-)
A chapter of this novel is written from the perspective of a Japanese prostitute who has acquired a super-virulent “Burmese” variant of syphillis. The one-legged French painter Jean Marais operates a furniture business with this novel’s protagonist, who has no friends after being slandered by Robert Suurhof. An estate at Wonokromo is inherited by the military engineer Maurits (*) Mellema in this novel, in which the protagonist, Minke, gets a job with a local newspaper in Surabaya. This novel is the first of a tetralogy memorized by its author while imprisoned on an island labor camp. For ten points, name this first book in the Buru tetralogy, the most famous work of the Indonesian author Pramoedya Ananta Toer.
This Earth of Mankind &lt;JM&gt;
9

157846-)
In Alice Walker’s The Temple of My Familiar, Fanny recalls driving this “great unheard-of” author to the airport, and telling her that she particularly enjoyed a novel by her in which the Englishwoman Margaret Cadmore names her adopted daughter after herself. The title character of that novel by this author later manages to trick the young Margaret into marrying him instead of Moleka. Another novel by this author follows Paulina Sebeso, (*) Makhaya Maseko and the agriculturalist Gilbert Balfour, as they attempt to modernise Golema Mmidi. In a later novel by this author, Elizabeth has hallucinations of Sello and Dan Molomo after being exiled to Motabeng, which this author based on the real-life village of Serowe. For 10 points, name this author who set When Rain Clouds Gather and A Question of Power in her home country of Botswana.
Bessie Head &lt;EJW&gt;
9

157883-)
This poet asked “when will the boat of capital-worship sink?” in a poem describing Lenin before god froma collection inspired by his trip to Spain, The Wing of Gabriel. This writer answered Goethe’s East-West Diwan in his Message from the East in which he sought to show the literary influence of Persian in German literature. This writer updated his poem “Sare Jahan se Accha [sah-reh Ja-harn “say” uh-cha] to the (*) “tarana-e-milli” which supported the unity of a worldwide Islamic ummah. He outlined a social dimension to his ideas in his book The Secrets of Selflessness which built on the idea of khudi which he developed in his persian-language poetry collection Secrets of the Self. This writer delivered the Allahabad Address in which he developed the idea of the two-nation theory and he names the main airport in Lahore. For 10 points, identify this Urdu poet known for his advocacy for an independent Pakistan.
Allama Muhammad Iqbal &lt;DJ&gt;
9

157908-)
The protagonist cups this object “as if reverentially offering flowers or incence before the Buddha” the morning before he wakes up to a scene of shed leaves and frost on the roof of the pagoda where this object has reverted to its original form. A young boy mocks the change in this object by chasing a dog around with a slat saying he “can’t hit” this thing. To alter this object which everyone in Ike-no-O knows about the protagonist drinks snake gourd and rubs it with snake urine. A disciple had earlier sat opposite the protagonist with a “long, narrow wooden slat” to allow the priest to eat his rice gruel because of this thing. A disciple who has studied in Kyoto boils this object and stamps on it removing (*) fat with tweezers so that it reduces in size but Zenchi Naigu is mocked even more because of his vanity. For 10 points, which object which titles a Ryonosuke Akutagwa story is described as “uniform in thickness from base to tip, it hung a full six inches from above his upper lip to below his chin”?
Zenchi Naigu’s nose &lt;DJ&gt;
9

157934-)
One of this author’s works repeats lines that end sections such as “I know the feeling now, know for myself”, “You must have walked the refreshing path”, and “The ten shrines, cloudless”. This author wrote The Book of the Golden Island while in exile on the island of Sado. This author proposed the concept of yugen as the (*) core of his art, as expressed in works such as Atsumori and Tadanori about casualties of the Genpei War. This author wrote treatises including The Transmission of the Flower through Mastery of the Forms and The Book of the Transmission of the Flower in which he described techniques such as the use of kyogen farces and masks. For ten points, name this 15th century master of Noh drama.
Zeami (accept Kanze Motokiyo) &lt;JM&gt;
9

157961-)
In this state, a woman fends off her romantic rival by telling Percy Gryce about the protagonist’s flaws, which include smoking and gambling on borrowed money. Judy Trenor hosts Lily Bart in its town of Bellomont in The House of Mirth. A narrator moves to this state from Minnesota to “learn the bond business” and recalls his father’s advice about people who “haven't had the (*) advantages that you've had.” In this state, that narrator is told about Goddard’s book The Rise of the Colored Empires, and meets Owl-Eyes and Meyer Wolfsheim at a party hosted by a millionaire who pines for Daisy Buchanan. The Great Gatsby’s West Egg is located in—for 10 points—what state?
New York [or NY] &lt;MK&gt;
4

157969-)
Act 1 of a 2011 sequel to this play depicts a couple selling their house in 1959 after their son Kenneth commits suicide. A man in this play yells “I live the answer!” while arguing with a woman for depending on her father’s death. Bruce Norris wrote a sequel to this play, in which a woman is scolded for straightening her hair and yells “Ocomogosiay!” while dancing. Joseph (*) Asagai courts Beneatha in this play. Karl Lindner tries to buy its protagonist out of his liquor store after he gets an insurance check and tries to moves to Chicago’s Clybourne Park. The Youngers try to move to a white neighborhood in—for 10 points—what play by Lorraine Hansberry?
A Raisin in the Sun &lt;MK&gt;
4

157985-)
This poem’s preface “The Verse” attacks the “jingling sound of like endings” to justify its lack of rhyme. Halfway through this poem, its speaker invokes the “meaning,” but “not the Name” of Urania. This poem’s opening declares itself an “adventurous Song, / That with no middle flight intends to soar,” in an invocation to a spirit that “from the (*) first / was present.” At the end of this poem, its protagonists take “their solitary way” “hand in hand with wandering steps and slow.” This poem aims “to justify the ways of God to man.” “Man’s First Disobedience, and the Fruit / of that Forbidden Tree” are depicted in—for 10 points—what epic poem by John Milton?
Paradise Lost &lt;JR&gt; Bonuses
4

157988-)
One of this man’s plays ends with a man saying “People don’t do such things” upon discovering the protagonist’s suicide. Another of his plays, which is set around Christmas, ends with a man wondering about “the most wonderful thing of all.” One of his title characters wildly plays the piano in her offstage private room before (*) shooting herself. One of this man’s protagonists is blackmailed by Judge Brack, after convincing Eilert Lövborg, the academic rival of her husband George Tesman, to kill himself. His most famous play ends after Nora Helmer slams the door on her husband Torvald. For 10 points, name this Norwegian author of Hedda Gabler and A Doll’s House.
Henrik (Johan) Ibsen &lt;MK&gt;
4

157994-)
This poem’s first part describes “a million girls trembling in the sunset” and “the romance of the streets.” Its Footnote calls “the groaning saxophone,” “the vast lamb of the middle class,” and many other things “Holy!” In a section that asks about a “sphinx of cement and aluminum” that “bashed open their skulls and ate up their brains and imagination,” this poem repeats the name (*) “Moloch!” In its third and last part, its speaker tells Carl Solomon “I’m with you in Rockland.” Its opening laments the speaker’s “starving hysterical naked” friends. The speaker “saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness” in—for 10 points—what poem by Allen Ginsberg?
“Howl” &lt;MK&gt;
4

158017-)
This poet described nurses passing by “the way gulls pass inland in their white caps” in a poem that claims “I am nobody; I have nothing to do with explosions.” This poet has “given my...history to the anesthetist and my body to surgeons” in a poem about flowers that “eat my oxygen.” A woman arises “out of the ash” and (*) “eat[s] men like air” in another poem by this author of “Tulips.” Dr. Gordon gives electroshock therapy to Esther Greenwood in this author’s only novel. The line “You do not do, you do not do” begins her poem about a “man in black with a Meinkampf look.” “Lady Lazarus” was written by—for 10 points—what author of The Bell Jar and “Daddy”?
Sylvia Plath &lt;CK&gt;
4

158027-)
In a book by this man, the narrator’s aunt asks him to bring a copy of Cherbuliez’s [“share”-boo-LYAY’s] novel Paule Méré to Rome. In another book by this man, the reading of a story about Griffin’s ghost prompts Douglas to share a manuscript by a former governess. He wrote a novella in which the title character’s kid brother Randolph insists that Schenectady is better than (*) Europe. One of his title characters goes to the Château de Chillon [shaa-TOH duh shee-“YAWN”] with Winterbourne, who sees her at the Colosseum before she dies of Roman Fever. He wrote a novella in which Miles and Flora are haunted by the ghosts of Miss Jessel and Peter Quint. For 10 points, name this author of Daisy Miller and The Turn of the Screw.
Henry James &lt;MK/JR&gt; Bonuses
4

158028-)
Over Thanksgiving dinner, this novel’s protagonist attacks the idea of a God who would include “phlegm and tooth decay” in his Creation. In this novel, a businessman disguises his one-man company by adding an ampersand to its name. In this novel, a Henry Fonda look-alike jumps out of windows to avoid talking to other officers. “Everybody has a share” in a scheme in this novel that buys (*) eggs in Malta for 7 cents and sells them in mess halls for 5. Its protagonist wants to be discharged for insanity, but has to keep flying missions due to the title paradox. Milo Minderbinder, Major Major, and Yossarian star in—for 10 points—what satirical war novel by Joseph Heller?
Catch-22 &lt;MK&gt;
4

158045-)
In one of this author’s plays, two men discuss a group of cricket players called the “First Eleven,” are asked to make fancy dishes like an “Ormitha Macarounda,” and keep trying to flush a toilet while waiting for their boss, who never comes. In another of his plays, the protagonist beats a toy drum, loses his glasses during a game of blind man’s bluff, and tries to rape (*) Lulu. He wrote a play in which the hitmen Ben and Gus receive instructions by the title device, as well as a “comedy of menace” in which the boarding house owner Meg puts on the title celebration for Stanley Webber. For 10 points, what English playwright wrote The Dumb Waiter and The Birthday Party?
Harold Pinter &lt;MK&gt;
4

158052-)
A poem by this author describes selling your “fine clothes” for “a dollar and a half.” In addition to “Hard Times,” he wrote a poem that ends by noting “the stars went out and so did the moon.” The speaker of another of his poems is sent “to eat in the kitchen / When company comes” but decides that tomorrow “They’ll see how beautiful I am.” The title (*) music of one of his poems is performed “down on Lenox Avenue.” One of his poetic speakers states that his “soul has grown deep like” the title places and describes having “bathed in the Euphrates when dawns were young.” For 10 points, name this Harlem Renaissance author of “The Weary Blues” and “The Negro Speaks of Rivers.”
(James Mercer) Langston Hughes &lt;CK&gt;
4

158057-)
In a novel by this author, the protagonists pick the letters “SHOULDER KNOTS” out of their father’s will to justify updating their coats. That novel by this man includes a “Digression on Madness.” In another of his novels, the title character sails on the Adventure to the coast of America. The title character of that novel by him starts off on the (*) Antelope as a surgeon. One of his novels stars Peter, Martin, and Jack, who represent Calvin, Luther, and St. Peter. The title character of his most famous novel encounters a race of talking horses and steals the fleet of Blefuscu to aid the Lilliputians. For 10 points, what Irish satirist wrote A Tale of a Tub, A Modest Proposal, and Gulliver’s Travels?
Jonathan Swift &lt;MK&gt;
4

158059-)
This author created the elderly Mrs. Croft, who repeats that having an American flag on the moon is “Splendid!” The protagonist of a story by this author has an affair with a man who whispered to her in a Christian Science Mapparium, but breaks it off after the boy she’s babysitting defines the word he’d whispered. In a novel by this author of “The (*) Third and Final Continent”, a train accident inspires Ashoke to name his son after Nikolai Gogol. She included “Sexy” in a collection whose title story depicts Bobby being chased by monkeys after Mrs. Das spills puffed rice. The Namesake and Interpreter of Maladies are by—for 10 points—what Indian-American author?
Jhumpa Lahiri [or Nilanjana Sudeshna Lahiri] &lt;MK&gt;
4

158086-)
One of this man’s characters thinks that her son must be alive because November 25th was his “favorable day.” In that play by this man, children play the game “jail” in a front yard where Frank Lubey tries to use horoscopes to find a missing soldier. In a play by this man, Ann Deever gets engaged to Chris Keller, whose reading of his brother Larry’s suicide note forces their father to admit to having sold faulty (*) airplane parts that killed 21 pilots. Another of his plays ends with the title man’s funeral after he crashes his car for the life insurance money. Happy and Biff are the sons of Willy Loman in that play by this author of All My Sons. For 10 points, who wrote Death of a Salesman?
Arthur (Asher) Miller &lt;CK&gt;
4

158110-)
One of these people named Macandal becomes the Lord of Poison and inspires another one to transform into a goose at the end of a novel whose preface coined the phrase “marvelous reality.” Ti Noel is one of these people in Alejo Carpentier’s [ah-LAY-hoh car-pen-TEER’s] The Kingdom of This World. A former woman of this kind flees to a new home at 124 (*) Bluestone Road and, near the end, attacks a white man with an ice pick. In another novel, Tom Loker hunts one of these people named Eliza after she flees to Canada. Sethe decides to kill her children rather than let them return to this status in Toni Morrison’s Beloved. For 10 points, name these people who include Harriet Beecher Stowe’s Uncle Tom.
slaves [accept ex-slaves, escaped slaves or similar answers] &lt;MK&gt; Tiebreaker
4

158129-)
These animals “test the reality of misty fields” in a poem that ends with them falling “downward to darkness.” These animals give the air “bland motions” in an “Invective Against” them. Another poem calls one’s movement “a small part of the pantomime” and asks why “golden” ones are imagined by “the thin men of (*) Haddam.” The woman in “Sunday Morning” repeatedly thinks of these animals. A poem declares “A man and a woman and” one of these animals “are one,” and opens “Among twenty snowy mountains, the only moving thing was the eye” of one of them. Wallace Stevens listed “Thirteen Ways of Looking at”—for 10 points—what subjects of Shelley’s “To a Skylark?”
birds [accept pigeons, swans, or blackbirds] &lt;MK&gt;
4

158141-)
A girl in this novel becomes a governess for the well-to-do King family. This novel’s tenth chapter recounts the meetings of a book club inspired by The Pickwick Papers. At the end, one of its protagonists starts an experimental boys’ school with Professor Bhaer. In this novel’s first chapter, its main characters reminisce about a charades-like game based on John Bunyan’s (*) Pilgrim’s Progress. Mr. Laurence gives one of its title characters a piano. In this novel, the Hummels are given Christmas breakfast by a family led by Marmee, whose daughter Beth dies of scarlet fever. Meg, Jo, Beth, and Amy March are the title girls of—for 10 points—what Louisa May Alcott novel?
Little Women &lt;MK&gt;
4

158164-)
The title figure of this poem was inspired by the character Grip from The Mystery of Edwin Drood. This poem’s author recounted its creation in his essay “The Philosophy of Composition.” This poem describes the “silken, sad, uncertain rustling” of some purple curtains. This poem’s speaker explains away a sound as “some visitor…(*) only this and nothing more.” Its speaker asks “is there balm in Gilead?” and tells the title figure to return to “the Night’s Plutonian shore.” This poem, which features a “bust of Pallas,” is set on a “midnight dreary” as the narrator mourns the death of Lenore. For 10 points, name this Edgar Allan Poe poem, whose title bird repeats the word “Nevermore.”
“The Raven” &lt;MK&gt;
4

158177-)
One character in this story attempts to reassure another by remembering how he helped his grandfather whip a Quaker woman and his father set fire to a Indian village. That character in this story later angrily tosses a black, eerily serpentine staff to Goody Cloyse. This story’s protagonist grabs that staff and runs in a mad frenzy after discovering his wife’s pink ribbon on a (*) branch. The protagonist of this short story is stunned to find Deacon Gookin participating in an induction ceremony for himself and his wife Faith. The title man discovers that his entire town is involved in a Satanic cult in—for 10 points—what story by Nathaniel Hawthorne story?
“Young Goodman Brown” &lt;MK&gt;
4

158199-)
This singer collaborated with Arthur Herzog, Jr. on songs like “Don’t Explain.” This singer wrote a song beginning “Them that’s got shall get / Them that’s not shall lose / So the Bible says and it still is news.” This frequent collaborator with Lester Young made the first commercially successful recording of “Summertime.” She adopted parts of her signature raspy sound from (*) Bessie Smith. This singer made famous a song that describes “Blood on the leaves and blood at the root” from the title “Black bodies swinging in the Southern breeze.” For 10 points, name this writer of “God Bless the Child” and popularizer of the protest song “Strange Fruit,” a jazz singer nicknamed “Lady.”
Billie Holiday [or Eleanora Fagan; prompt on Lady Day until it’s mentioned] &lt;JR&gt;
4

158204-)
In a novel titled for one of these places, the French Revolution is blamed on the Jews by the grandfather of Simone Simonini, who forges the Protocols of the Elders of Zion. A poem set in one of these places notes that “Melancholy mark'd…for her own” a “youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown.” Tom Sawyer watches Dr. Robinson get killed by (*) Injun Joe in this place. This place is imagined to be home to a “mute inglorious Milton” and “some Cromwell guiltless of his country’s blood” in a poem that’s the source of the titles Paths of Glory and Far from the Madding Crowd. Thomas Gray wrote an elegy in—for 10 points—what place where the “forefathers of the hamlet sleep?”
graveyard [accept cemetery, churchyard or other clear equivalents; accept The Prague Cemetery or “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”] &lt;MK&gt;
4

158208-)
An author of this nationality wrote a poem whose speaker calls himself as an “Earth-born companion” and apologizes to the title figure for breaking “Nature’s social union.” That poet of this nationality called a creature “blest” since “the present only touches you,” while the speaker casts his eye backward on “prospects dreary.” A poet of this nationality addressed an (*) animal after “Turning Her Up in Her Nest With the Plough.” John Steinbeck borrowed a line by a poet of this nationality lamenting how “askew” “the best laid schemes of mice and men” often go. For 10 points, name this nationality of the author of “To a Mouse” and “Auld Lang Syne,” Robert Burns.
Scottish [or Scots; prompt on “British”] &lt;MK&gt;
4

158212-)
A character with this last name tells a story about creatures that die after eating so much fruit that they can’t leave their feeding holes. That man with this last name then shoots himself after entertaining the girl Sybil at the beach. A church made of this material is moved by the title gamblers of Peter Carey’s Oscar and Lucinda. This is the last name of (*) Franny, Zooey, and the protagonist of “A Perfect Day for Bananafish.” A unicorn made of this material has its horn accidentally broken off by a “gentleman caller” visiting Laura Wingfield. A family of J.D. Salinger characters are named for—for 10 points—what material of the title Menagerie of a Tennessee Williams play?
Glass [accept Seymour Glass, or The Glass Menagerie] &lt;CK&gt;
4

158231-)
This actor popularized the use of “walking alone into the distance” endings. This man’s character is told “It’s no Buckingham Palace” after he dislodges a broom, causing his house’s roof to fall in. His character accidentally gets high from eating contraband cocaine in a film whose only (*) dialogue comes from his boss on a screen. His character makes two bread rolls dance in a film in which he’s forced to eat his own shoe. In a 1936 movie, his character makes a repetitive wrenching motion after being fed through the gears of a factory machine. For 10 points, name this star of The Gold Rush and Modern Times, who wore a bowler hat and moustache as The Tramp.
Charlie Chaplin [or Charles Spencer Chaplin] &lt;JR&gt;
4

158236-)
In a play by this author, KKK member Oscar pines for Laurette Sincee in Bowden, Alabama. In that play’s sequel, the protagonist is called an “eater of the earth” and is freed up by the heart attack of her husband Horace. Another play by this author of Another Part of the Forest opens with a girl faking an illness at school and includes a reading of Shakespeare’s “the quality of mercy” speech by (*) Peggy Rogers. In one of her plays, Regina blackmails her brothers for majority ownership of a cotton mill. Mary Tilford accuses the teachers Karen Wright and Martha Dobie of being lesbian lovers in her The Children’s Hour. For 10 points, name this author of The Little Foxes.
Lillian (Florence) Hellman &lt;MK&gt; Tiebreaker
4

158237-)
In one of this author’s poems, an “old yellow pair” remember the “twinklings and twinges” and mostly consume the title food. In a 1983 reading of this author’s most famous poem at the Guggenheim, this poet emphasized and clipped the repeated last word of each line. This poet’s hometown neighborhood in Chicago was fictionalized in the debut collection A Street in (*) Bronzeville. This author of “The Bean Eaters” wrote a poem headed “THE POOL PLAYERS / SEVEN AT THE GOLDEN SHOVEL” that describes a group of people who “lurk late,” “strike straight,” “Jazz June,” and “Die soon.” For 10 points, what black woman wrote “We Real Cool”?
Gwendolyn (Elizabeth) Brooks &lt;CK&gt; Bonuses
4

158280-)
3. In an Academy Award–nominated short, this character is a medieval knight who tears off a dragon’s tail and defeats the dragon with the tail to win the hand of a princess, and this character later uses that dragon as a pet to light his cigar. A short-lived 1993 TV show starred this character, working with his son, as a “Master Detective.” This character’s voice was mostly recycled from the character Wallace Wimple from the radio show Fibber McGee and Molly, as both characters were voiced by Bill Thompson. Despite his small size, this character often displayed considerable strength after saying, (*) “You know what? That makes me mad.” This character was given the last name Poodle in spite of the fact that he is a basset hound, as shown by his original billing as the “Happy Hound.” For 10 points, name this Tex Avery creation who was known for his blasé demeanor and monotone delivery and was named for his hanging jowls.
Droopy Dog [or Droopy Poodle; or Droopy McPoodle; or Happy Hound before read] &lt;Gehring&gt;
9

158284-)
7. A sleepwalking Simeon retrieves this object from a rock chamber and gives it to Dandin. In one appearance, this object causes the death of the Deepcoiler, from whose body it is retrieved by Mara; in another, it is stolen by Dingeye and Thura after a lightning strike dislodges it, causing it to nearly kill Samkim. Both Rufe Brush and the absurdly named Wild King MacPhearsome return this object to the hiding place specified by its most famous owner, who received it from his father Luke. It was later recovered from the tunnels of the Quarry, whose inhabitant (*) Asmodeus had stolen it from King Bull Sparra. After it was broken by Tsarmina, it was reforged by Boar the Fighter at Salamandastron. This object was used to sever the rope of the Joseph Bell, thus killing Cluny the Scourge, by Matthias. For 10 points, identify this weapon named for and owned by the first warrior mouse of Redwall Abbey.
the sword of Martin the Warrior &lt;Carson&gt;
9

158286-)
9. This man asks, “Would Homer cut away from Odysseus’s journey just as he was being enticed by the sirens’ song?” as he films an argument about one character kissing another’s wife. He gives a coveted four-color pen to Mia McKibbin, who unplugs a George Foreman grill during a game show episode starring Daniel Radcliffe. The question “What’s Updike?” is raised after the attempted use of a Rabbit, Run reference to praise this man, whose former agent Ronnie Bonito died of autoerotic asphyxiation. He ran Joe Nobody’s Shop for Tandem Bicycles until he pitched the idea for the trivia show (*) Hollywoo Stars and Celebrities: What Do They Know? Do They Know Things?? Let’s Find Out! to Princess Carolyn. For 10 points, name this character on BoJack Horseman who, in real life, hated Hollywood for making the film My Foolish Heart out of his story “Uncle Wiggily in Connecticut” from his Nine Stories.
J. D. Salinger [or Jerome David Salinger; accept any underlined portion] &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158287-)
10. A character in this novel reveres the song “You Are My Sunshine,” which he sings to comfort his friend Richard when Richard gets upset about the plight of his mother. In a Nighthawks-inspired scene from the film adaptation of this book, the protagonist talks for hours with the disabled clerk of a New Hampshire Krispy Kreme store. Libby tracks down an AV expert who helps reveal that a supposedly erotic phone call between one this novel’s central characters and a hairdresser named Cashmere McLeod was spliced together. A black strategist named (*) Henry Burton is the protagonist of this novel, which centers on governor Jack Stanton and was the subject of extensive linguistic analysis when it was published in the early 1990s. Newsweek columnist Joe Klein was eventually revealed as the anonymous author of, for 10 points, what roman à clef about Bill Clinton’s 1992 campaign that was made into a 1998 film starring John Travolta?
Primary Colors &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158316-)
19. A member of this family has a dream about her high school graduation in which her parents are still together and a friend visiting from Vassar is confused by a memorial fountain. Another member of this family thinks that a man is a criminal named Carl Morgan before finding out the man is Nathan Woods, the ex-husband of Alicia Fennel. A member of this family is able to convince a rival to go back into the Manning household to find a secret room in a closet where Grace is often abused by her parents. This family experienced hard times after Lianne left following the arrest of Abel Koontz and the removal of a member of this family as sheriff in (*) Neptune. Don Lamb frequently antagonizes members of this family, the youngest of whom was an “09er” (oh-“niner”) before the murder of her best friend, Lilly Kane. For 10 points, identify this family of private investigator Keith and his sharp-witted daughter, Veronica.
Mars family [or Veronica Mars; or Keith Mars; or Lianne Mars] &lt;Gehring&gt;
9

158327-)
10. In the basement of this location, a character is threatened into making a phone call by being told that an acetylene torch will otherwise be used “to burn your face so it matches the color of your hair.” Snow globes filled with water from this location’s pool were sent out to journalists and were later sold on eBay for 300 dollars. A character who lives at this location loses her sanity as she begins to recall a childhood birthday when she killed a gardener named Henry who was raping her mother. An explosion that destroyed much of this location was not shown until a TV show’s fourth season premiere because of the (*) Oklahoma City bombing. Sydney Andrews is kidnapped and forced to lure Dr. Michael Mancini to this location, where Kimberly Shaw set up a number of bombs. For 10 points, identify this apartment complex that was the site of a lot of drama on a TV show spun-off from Beverly Hills, 90210.
4616 Melrose Place &lt;Gehring&gt;
9

158338-)
1. After revealing he betrayed the trust of his father, a character is pushed off a pier by this character, who had been reading Tolstoy’s Resurrection. When a character refuses to carry out an attack on Comet Electric, this character gets angry and says that character will be a zero by walking out a door and leaving forever. This character is able to convince another character to implicate Terry Colby in an attack, and Terry Colby is later revealed to have been responsible for the Washington Township toxic waste scandal. A character is led to the former (*) Fun Society arcade by this character, who uses the missing letters from a sign there to name a group fsociety. Edward Alderson is revealed to be the inspiration for this character, who is actually a creation of Edward’s son, Elliot, an employee for Allsafe Cybersecurity. For 10 points, name this title character played by Christian Slater on a USA TV show starring Rami Malek.
Mr. Robot [accept Elliot Alderson before “Elliot” is read] &lt;Gehring&gt;
9

158353-)
16. Among the sidequests in this game are one in which the unicorn Lasher can help prove the virginity of a young warrior named Cosmo and one in which the player encounters Murray and Myrtle, a pair of tax-dodging nudists, after the ranger Tsemared directs them to the Bee Cave. A farmer named Mack in this game relates his encounter with a Kilrathi fighter from Wing Commander and offers the protagonist his Hoe of Destruction. The Exult emulator was developed for this game, which opens with the player investigating the murders of the blacksmith Christopher and the gargoyle Inamo in the city of (*) Trinsic. A philosophy based on the “Triad of Inner Strength” is propounded by Batlin and the Fellowship in this game. In its second part, the populations of Fawn, Monitor, and Moonshade are decimated by the Banes of Chaos, who possess the player’s companions Dupre, Iolo, and Shamino. The Black Gate and Serpent Isle are the two parts of, for 10 points, what game that precedes Pagan in a series of Richard Garriott RPGs?
Ultima VII [accept Ultima VII: The Black Gate or Ultima VII: Serpent Isle] &lt;Carson&gt;
9

158372-)
15. As a college student, this man forced a director to resign after using a celebrity impersonator to dupe dozens of journalists into believing that the school would award Charles Lindbergh an honorary degree. The film Trumbo portrays the Oscar ceremony in which Trumbo, under the pseudonym Robert Rich, wins for “Best Story” over this nominee’s The Proud and the Beautiful; this man later had a falling out with John Huston over writing a film called Freud: The Secret Passion. This man served as the link between Jim Fitzpatrick and the Italian who had published Lolita, Giangiacomo Feltrinelli, resulting in Fitzpatrick making a stylized version of the famous Che Guevara picture. Mrs. Premise and Mrs. Conclusion visit this man’s pamphlet-strewn apartment in a Monty Python sketch containing a joke about his trilogy The (*) Roads to Freedom. For 10 points, name this French intellectual who refused the 1964 Nobel Prize and wrote that “hell is other people.”
Jean-Paul Sartre &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158373-)
16. A character in this location ends up saying, “My belly button grows watermelons,” when trying to practice his Japanese with the opera singer Kumiko Mori. When a football is kicked into an elevator in this location, two characters learn that their new friend Sanjay is actually Prince Sanjay, heir to the throne of Ishkabar. This location hosts a competition for engineers that has a prize of a golden plunger, which a rival location’s Irv Wheldon cheats at to try to beat this location’s Arwin Hawkhauser. Ilsa Schicklgrubermeiger works for a rival location to this one that is located across the street in Boston. Carey Martin works as a (*) lounge singer at this location. Two characters who live on this location’s 23rd floor often antagonize Mr. Moseby. For 10 points, name this hotel with a penthouse that belongs to London, the daughter of its owner, and a suite lived in by Zack and Cody.
Tipton Hotel &lt;Gehring&gt;
9

158386-)
9. Over the phone, this man complains about “the pain, the horror” of musical theater and begs another man to “take over at interval” as the sounds of the song “Do You Hear the People Sing” from Les Miserables play in the background. This man becomes concerned when he sees a post-it note reading “13th” stuck to his fridge, prompting an immediate phone call. After this man accuses a family member of having a self-image as a “dragon slayer,” both of them are caught smoking, and this man suggests declining a “job offer” in Eastern (*) Europe because “your loss would break my heart”; shortly thereafter, this man and his parents are drugged so that his brother can steal his laptop and bring it to a media mogul played by Lars Mikkelsen. This man repeatedly says the word “Redbeard” to his brother to see if it triggers memories of their sister, Eurus. For 10 points, name this government official, the older brother of the title character on the BBC series Sherlock.
Mycroft Holmes [prompt on “Holmes”] &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158387-)
10. The fictional Wild Seven cigarette brand was introduced in this novel, which both quotes as an epigraph and ends with its protagonist quoting Bruce Springsteen’s “Born to Run.” One character in this novel fantasizes about being a “space warrior” devotee of Ahura Mazda named Prexia Dikianne, while another is a shooting guard nicknamed “The Third Man.” A group of girls in this novel kill each other after one accidentally eats poisoned food intended for the protagonist, who, like most of the characters, is fitted with a (*) “Guadalcanal” device that is affected by “Forbidden Zones.” Its 2000 film adaptation, the final film directed by Kinji Fukasaku, changed the backstories of its antagonists Mitsuko Souma and Kazuo Kiriyama. The Hunger Games is often accused of ripping off, for 10 points, what 1999 novel by Koushun Takami, in which the government of the Republic of Greater East Asia puts Shuya Nanahara and his classmates on an island and orders them to kill each other?
Battle Royale [or Batoru Rowaiaru] &lt;Carson&gt;
9

158414-)
17. A group of characters from Fillmore are frightened away by a character knocking down two bathroom doors before this object is used. While the Frankie Valli song “Big Girls Don’t Cry” plays very loudly, a character holds a phone up to this object so he can have a conversation with another character, and then he holds the phone up to this object a second time. In a two-part episode titled for a character being “fearless,” that character proves he is having trouble by showing his finger snapping and ability to use this object have deteriorated. This object is located to the left of doors labeled (*) “Guys” and “Dolls” in Arnold’s Drive-In. A character would often blow on his fist before interacting with this object, which failed to react to a similar action from Potsie. For 10 points, identify this object that would play such songs as Elvis Presley’s “Hound Dog” or turn off when it was hit by Fonzie on Happy Days.
jukebox &lt;Gehring&gt;
9

158418-)
1. The lead in this musical sang about a “garbage man” who “stuffs my girl in a garbage can” in an audition conducted in thigh-high fur boots. This musical’s title character is introduced with the lines “we looked around, and then we found the man for you and me!” During the second act of this musical, the title character sends for “the only cat left that still grooves me” right before a man jumps on stage to rant about the historically inaccurate use of the word “baby.” The flamboyant director Roger (*) de Bris’s (duh bree’s) conception of this musical leads the author of its source material, Franz Liebekind, to charge two men with breaking the “Siegfried Oath.” Those two men are found “incredibly guilty” of defrauding little old ladies in the wake of this musical’s shocking success. For 10 points, name this “gay romp with Adolf and Eva at Berchtesgaden” (BURK-tays-GAH-dun) that Max Bialystock (bee-AL-ih-stock) and Leo Bloom put on in The Producers.
Springtime for Hitler: A Gay Romp with Adolf and Eva at Berchtesgaden &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158425-)
8. In his youth, this character was prevented from killing a man by the maid Chiyoh, who then kept that man prisoner in a dungeon for years. A man is shot through a one-way mirror by Miriam Lass after she lost an arm and spent two years kept in a well by this character. This character conducts a series of tests in which he asks another character to draw clocks, which that character thinks he draws correctly despite actually putting all the numbers on one side. This character and Bedelia Du Maurier, who was played by (*) Gillian Anderson, escape to Florence, where this man was previously known as the city’s “monster” before he moved to Baltimore and was called the Chesapeake Ripper. For 10 points, name this character who was portrayed for three seasons on a namesake Bryan Fuller show by Mads Mikkelsen and who manipulated Will Graham while being a cannibalistic serial killer.
Hannibal Lecter [accept either] &lt;Gehring&gt;
9

158436-)
19. This film’s protagonist becomes emotional at the sight of John Diaz’s driver’s license and arranges the wallets of his fallen companions into the shape of a cross. Its protagonist repeats lines from a poem written by his Irish father that reads, “Once more into the fray, into the last good fight I’ll ever know. Live or die on this day. Live or die on this day.” This film, which opens with the protagonist deciding not to shoot himself while sucking on a rifle, quickly transitions to a scene in which clips of the protagonist in bed with his wife are interspersed with shots of a brutal (*) plane crash. After Hendrick drowns in a frigid river, this film’s protagonist, an Alaskan oil worker named John Ottway, arms himself by taping shards of broken mini-bottles to his hands after realizing that he has wandered straight into his enemies’ den. For 10 points, name this 2011 film in which Liam Neeson fights a whole lotta wolves.
The Grey &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158441-)
4. This man claims that he saw, at a Christmas Eve mass, a blue-skinned six-foot-eight “half bull, half man” that had violets growing out of its eyelids. After describing how his commission for a large flag resulted in a banner emblazoned with a “Tibetan swastika” that horrified everyone who saw it, this man tells the story of three friends who pretended to bury him alive on Halloween in Montauk. He details his obsession with The Little Prince and spiritual quests to the Sahara, Tibet, India, and Findhorn after recounting how Jerzy Grotowski invited him to Poland to preside over a “beehive.” This man frequently mentions his wife, (*) Chiquita, and claims that modern life forces people to live in an “insane dream world” in a film that ends with his interlocutor taking a cab back to his apartment to discuss the conversation with Deborah Eisenberg. For 10 points, what theater director does Wallace Shawn dine with in a film titled “My Dinner with” this man?
Andre Gregory [accept either underlined portion; accept My Dinner with Andre] &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158460-)
3. The final third of a book about a former manager of this team is titled for that man “Agonistes” and recounts how this team’s manager was a committed socialist whose favorite book was John Stuart Blackie’s Life of Robert Burns. In that book about this team, the chapter “The Religion of My Time” describes a conversation on Granada TV about unemployment and death between its former manager and former British prime minister Harold Wilson. The first third of that book about this team describes how it was propelled to glory by coaches who met in the “Boot Room,” including Reuben Bennett and Bob (*) Paisley, during the years in which this team was managed by Bill Shankly. After The Damned Utd, David Peace wrote a novel about this team that alludes to, but never mentions, its fans dying in the Hillsborough disaster. The novel Red or Dead is about the glory years of, for 10 points, what English soccer club that plays at Anfield and whose anthem is “You’ll Never Walk Alone”?
Liverpool F.C. [or Liverpool Football Club] &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158463-)
6. A character with this surname wrote the novel Don’t Let the Bastards See You Sweat. Another character with this surname is strangled to death by Ira Hogeboom, who he had earlier employed to burn down recalcitrant families’ homes to benefit the Suburban Redevelopment Fund. That man with this surname convinces Courtney Sheldon to give him a supply of stolen surplus morphine. A quack psychologist from L.A. Noire shares this surname with a man who owned the department store that serves as the setting for the Burial at Sea DLC. That man with this surname employed Gilbert Alexander, (*) Yi Suchong, and Brigid Tenenbaum at his namesake “Futuristics” company. That character with this surname faked his death in a conflict with Andrew Ryan, after which he adopted the persona of the revolutionary Irishman Atlas. For 10 points, give the surname of Frank, a major antagonist of Bioshock.
Fontaine [accept Harlan Fontaine or Frank Fontaine] &lt;Carson&gt;
9

158484-)
7. After one of this character’s friends apologizes for telling everyone about the time that this character “got diarrhea at Barnes and Noble,” this character gives an insincere apology, which causes her to hit the floor during a trust fall. This character goes on an angry, allegorical diatribe in which she claims that “one person” being “the boss of everybody” is “not what Rome is all about” and wonders why Julius Caesar gets “to stomp around like a giant” when (*) “Brutus is just as cute as Caesar.” After claiming that she doesn’t “want to get punished for being well liked,” this character claims that her father, the inventor of toaster strudel, would not want to hear about the existence of the Burn Book. This character makes the claim “it’s, like, slang from England” about a word she keeps trying to make “happen.” For 10 points, name this wealthy, gossipy member of the Plastics who repeatedly uses the word “fetch” in Mean Girls.
Gretchen Wieners [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158487-)
10. This book’s confusing claim that a creature with a “flat, armored tail” that sits atop a “large, round Pile” in a pond is a “fat otter” suggested that its author did not know what beavers were, according to a reviewer who called this book “the worst thing I have ever read.” The narrator of this book makes friends with a former world-champion boxer and a black federal judge after earning their respect from enduring several root canals without anesthetics. Its narrator, who capitalizes random nouns and does not set off dialogue with quotes, makes a father figure out of a Las Vegas mafia hitman who became the focus of this book’s sequel, (*) My Friend Leonard. Publisher Nan Talese endured criticism after the Star Tribune and the Smoking Gun questioned claims made in this book, whose cover shows a hand that appears to be covered in rainbow nonpareils. Oprah’s Book Club faced a major scandal over, for 10 points, what fraudulent memoir by James Frey?
A Million Little Pieces &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158496-)
19. This author invoked Harold Bloom to describe people afraid to like pop music and Dave Eggers to describe the need to “solve” a song in an essay claiming that he was driven “pleasurably potty” over Nelly Furtado’s “I’m like a Bird.” Curtis White’s essay “Kid Adorno” called this author a philistine for writing that Radiohead’s Kid A abandoned the “old-fashioned dynamics of rock,” a claim that appeared in this man’s critical review of that album for the New Yorker titled “Beyond the Pale.” This author wrote the lyrics for Ben Folds’s album Lonely Avenue and wrote up his favorite music in his book 31 Songs. This author created the characters Dick, (*) Barry, and Rob, who create an exhausting number of top-five lists while working in a record shop, in a 1995 novel that includes the line “what came first, the music or the misery?” A movie starring John Cusack was made out of, for 10 points, what British author’s book High Fidelity?
Nick Hornby [or Nicholas Peter John Hornby] &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158509-)
A character in this series is offered a choice of punishments between castration and having part of his right foot chopped off; that character names his daughter after a word meaning “stay put” in the Mandinka language. A man in this series gains the nickname “Chicken George” because of his prowess in training chickens for cockfighting. Near the start of this series, a brutal whipping is administered to Kunta Kinte when he refuses to accept the name Toby. For the point, name this landmark TV miniseries chronicling the origins of Alex Haley.
Roots
5

158546-)
One character in this play thanks his friend for sending a custard to his sick mother. The “Varsouviana” is a recurring song in this play, because one woman once heard it at the Moon Lake Casino with Allan Grey. The costume jewelry of one character in this play causes her brother-in-law to cite the Napoleonic code. That brother-in-law later throws a (*) radio out a window in this play featuring a “Blue Piano.” A character in this play who loses Belle Reve later says she has “always depended on the kindness of strangers” before being institutionalized. For 10 points, name this play set in New Orleans about Stanley and Stella Kowalski and Blanche DuBois, a work of Tennessee Williams.
A Streetcar Named Desire [prompt on Streetcar] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158553-)
. Cash gives this number of reasons for building his mother’s coffin on a bevel in As I Lay Dying, and the most famous work by Jay Asher has this number in the title. The clocks strike this number at the beginning of 1984. The speaker of one poem with this number in its title states, “I do not know which to prefer, / The (*) beauty of inflections / Or the beauty of innuendoes.” That poem with this number of sections opens with “Among twenty snowy mountains, / The only moving thing / Was the eye” of the title animal. For 10 points, name the number Wallace Stevens thinks there are of “Ways of Looking at a Blackbird,” also a common motif in horror novels.
thirteen &lt;RY&gt; Bonuses
4

158573-)
This author wrote about a man who boxes against Danny Ward and another character who fails to defeat the “man in the red sweater.” This author of “The Mexican” described the Whitechapel District and its East End surroundings in The People of the Abyss. Sailors attempt to mutiny against Wolf Larsen in this author’s The (*) Sea-Wolf, and a man freezes to death in his “To Build a Fire.” One of this author’s protagonists bests Spitz in a fight, forms a close bond with Thornton, and witnesses the Klondike Gold Rush. That character created by this author of White Fang is Buck, a dog. For 10 points, identify this naturalist author of White Fang and The Call of the Wild.
(John Griffith) “Jack” London [accept John Griffith Chaney] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158577-)
One part of this work describes the female body as “the bath of birth” and lists “the skin, the sunburnt shade, freckles, hair.” The speaker of this work details a “vast similitude” that interlocks “all lives and deaths, all of the past, present, future” while “On the Beach At Night Alone.” One section of this work describes “a shy and hidden bird… warbling a song” and describes a “lustrous and (*) drooping star,” while another opens, “Flood-tide below me!” This collection also contains a poem that states, “I am large, I contain multitudes” and has 52 sections. For 10 points, name this poetry collection that includes “Song of Myself”, written by Walt Whitman.
Leaves of Grass [accept “I Sing the Body Electric” until “vast similitude”] &lt;RY&gt;
4

158579-)
“A lady with a funny eye” and “a fat dentist” are the first two people to officially complain about these objects, which are housed on Drinkwater Road. Rules for the use of these objects are given by Red Welby and include a ban on the word “anus.” The subject of one of these objects, (*) police chief Bill Willoughby, pays to rent them for an additional month before shooting himself. These objects, commissioned by Mildred Hayes, read, “HOW COME, CHIEF WILLOUGHBY?”, “AND STILL NO ARRESTS?”, and “RAPED WHILE DYING.” For 10 points, name these three objects, which title a 2017 Oscar-winning film starring Frances McDormand.
the three billboards from Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri [accept descriptions; prompt on just “the billboards” or equivalent until “three” and accept after] &lt;SB&gt;
4

158616-)
. One of this author’s works transposes some historical events, such as the divorce of Pompeia. This author of The Ides of March wrote one work that sees the monk Brother Juniper trying to learn why God’s plan for five people had them die when the title structure (*) collapses. One of this author’s plays ends with one character saying goodbye to her mama’s sunflowers and to “sleeping” and “waking up,” and another play follows a family that survives an ice age, the Antrobus family. This writer of The Skin of Our Teeth wrote one play featuring Emily Webb and set in Grover’s Corners. For 10 points, name this playwright of Our Town.
Thornton Wilder &lt;RY&gt; Bonuses
4

158646-)
In this novel, a pilot takes a bond-selling woman through several stunts in his plane, leaving her sick in bed. This novel features Olive and a woman who practices marriage beneath a willow tree with Cal’s brother and is named Abra Bacon. One character in this novel slowly poisons a woman named Faye. A cook in this novel named Lee discusses the importance of a particular (*) Hebrew word in the Bible which means “thou mayest,” “timshel.” In this novel set in the Salinas Valley, a prostitute named Cathy Ames shoots Adam in the shoulder. For 10 points, name this Biblically titled novel about the Hamiltons and the Trasks, a work by John Steinbeck.
East of Eden &lt;CL&gt;
4

158668-)
In one work by this author, a pair of young children deliver love letters sent between Uncle Maury and Mrs. Patterson. A character created by this author pretends to be a doctor and gives a woman turpentine after taking advantage of her need for an abortion. This creator of the pharmacist MacGowan and (*) Dewey Dell wrote a short story in which a gray hair is found beside Homer Barron’s corpse and set many works in a fictional Mississippi county named Yoknapatawpha. In addition to A Rose for Emily, this author wrote a work about the Bundrens and several about the Compsons. For 10 points, name this American author of As I Lay Dying and The Sound and the Fury.
William (Cuthbert) Faulkner &lt;CL&gt;
4

158699-)
This author wrote about a man who boxes against Danny Ward and another character who fails to defeat the “man in the red sweater.” This author of “The Mexican” described the Whitechapel District and its East End surroundings in The People of the Abyss. Sailors attempt to mutiny against Wolf Larsen in this author’s The (*) Sea-Wolf, and a man freezes to death in his “To Build a Fire.” One of this author’s protagonists bests Spitz in a fight, forms a close bond with Thornton, and witnesses the Klondike Gold Rush. That character created by this author of White Fang is Buck, a dog. For 10 points, identify this naturalist author of White Fang and The Call of the Wild.
(John Griffith) “Jack” London [accept John Griffith Chaney] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158703-)
One part of this work describes the female body as “the bath of birth” and lists “the skin, the sunburnt shade, freckles, hair.” The speaker of this work details a “vast similitude” that interlocks “all lives and deaths, all of the past, present, future” while “On the Beach At Night Alone.” One section of this work describes “a shy and hidden bird… warbling a song” and describes a “lustrous and (*) drooping star,” while another opens, “Flood-tide below me!” This collection also contains a poem that states, “I am large, I contain multitudes” and has 52 sections. For 10 points, name this poetry collection that includes “Song of Myself”, written by Walt Whitman.
Leaves of Grass [accept “I Sing the Body Electric” until “vast similitude”] &lt;RY&gt;
4

158705-)
“A lady with a funny eye” and “a fat dentist” are the first two people to officially complain about these objects, which are housed on Drinkwater Road. Rules for the use of these objects are given by Red Welby and include a ban on the word “anus.” The subject of one of these objects, (*) police chief Bill Willoughby, pays to rent them for an additional month before shooting himself. These objects, commissioned by Mildred Hayes, read, “HOW COME, CHIEF WILLOUGHBY?”, “AND STILL NO ARRESTS?”, and “RAPED WHILE DYING.” For 10 points, name these three objects, which title a 2017 Oscar-winning film starring Frances McDormand.
the three billboards from Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri [accept descriptions; prompt on just “the billboards” or equivalent until “three” and accept after] &lt;SB&gt;
4

158727-)
In one work by this author, Magdalena saves two houseguests from her husband, Buck Scales. A protagonist created by this author asks for money to fund her study in Germany from Doctor Archie. This author who described Godfrey St. Peter and the late Tom Outland in The Professor’s House wrote about (*) Thea Kronborg in another work. A cat climbs a telegraph pole at the beginning of this author’s novel about Alexandra, which forms a cycle with one about Jim Burden and the title Bohemian woman and The Song of the Lark. For 10 points, name this American author who set many works in Nebraska and included My Ántonia and O Pioneers! in her Prairie Trilogy.
Willa (Sibert) Cather &lt;CL&gt;
4

158742-)
. One of this author’s works transposes some historical events, such as the divorce of Pompeia. This author of The Ides of March wrote one work that sees the monk Brother Juniper trying to learn why God’s plan for five people had them die when the title structure (*) collapses. One of this author’s plays ends with one character saying goodbye to her mama’s sunflowers and to “sleeping” and “waking up,” and another play follows a family that survives an ice age, the Antrobus family. This writer of The Skin of Our Teeth wrote one play featuring Emily Webb and set in Grover’s Corners. For 10 points, name this playwright of Our Town.
Thornton Wilder &lt;RY&gt; Bonuses
4

158752-)
In one work, Boomer comments on the awkwardness of one of these animals. A man makes a distinction between “Lockean” and “Kantean” examples of these animals, which the cook Fleece prepares for Stubb in one work. In one novel, “gams” are meetings between groups hunting these animals like the Samuel Enderby. One character uses a bone from this animal as a (*) prosthetic leg, and hunters of them include a Parsee named Fedallah. A white one of these animals has taken off the leg of the captain of the Pequod, Ahab, leading to a voyage narrated by Ishmael. For 10 points, identify these large aquatic mammals, one of whom titles the Herman Melville novel Moby-Dick.
whales (in Moby-Dick) [prompt on Cetaceans] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158772-)
In this novel, a pilot takes a bond-selling woman through several stunts in his plane, leaving her sick in bed. This novel features Olive and a woman who practices marriage beneath a willow tree with Cal’s brother and is named Abra Bacon. One character in this novel slowly poisons a woman named Faye. A cook in this novel named Lee discusses the importance of a particular (*) Hebrew word in the Bible which means “thou mayest,” “timshel.” In this novel set in the Salinas Valley, a prostitute named Cathy Ames shoots Adam in the shoulder. For 10 points, name this Biblically titled novel about the Hamiltons and the Trasks, a work by John Steinbeck.
East of Eden &lt;CL&gt;
4

158794-)
In one work by this author, a pair of young children deliver love letters sent between Uncle Maury and Mrs. Patterson. A character created by this author pretends to be a doctor and gives a woman turpentine after taking advantage of her need for an abortion. This creator of the pharmacist MacGowan and (*) Dewey Dell wrote a short story in which a gray hair is found beside Homer Barron’s corpse and set many works in a fictional Mississippi county named Yoknapatawpha. In addition to A Rose for Emily, this author wrote a work about the Bundrens and several about the Compsons. For 10 points, name this American author of As I Lay Dying and The Sound and the Fury.
William (Cuthbert) Faulkner &lt;CL&gt;
4

158806-)
During one episode in this novel, the protagonist remembers Amy’s gray eyes in contrast with Mrs. Garner’s. One character in this novel is said to have a “tree on her back,” and earlier, some relatives of a schoolteacher stole her milk. Another character in this novel, originally named Joshua, gives his wife to a (*) white man and thus renames himself Stamp Paid. A central location in this novel was once inhabited by Baby Suggs after her departure from Sweet Home to Cincinnati and has the address 124 Bluestone Road. For 10 points, name this novel in which Sethe kills her baby to save it from slavery, a work by Toni Morrison.
Beloved &lt;CL&gt;
4

158826-)
. In one of this author’s works, a character drunkenly says, “We both cry all the time, and then… we take our tears and we put ‘em in the icebox… until they’re all frozen.” The first act of one of his plays ends when one of the title characters has a stroke; that character is named A. It’s not (*) Tennessee Williams, but one of this author’s characters declares “Flores para los muertos” while holding out snapdragons, and another of this playwright of Three Tall Women impales himself on a Central Park bench; that character is Jerry in The Zoo Story. This playwright’s most well-known play features the couples Nick and Honey, and George and Martha. For 10 points, name this playwright of Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf.
Edward (Franklin) Albee III &lt;RY&gt; Bonuses
4

158845-)
This figure’s father was jealous after his nephew invented the saw, and so threw him off a cliff. Athena saved that nephew by turning him into an animal that she also imprinted on this figure’s father as a scar. In one poem named for this figure, “the whole pageantry / of the year was / awake tingling / near / the edge of the sea.” In another poem, this figure’s death is “not an important failure” to a (*) ploughman. That poem by W. H. Auden is titled “Musée des Beaux Arts” after the museum which holds Bruegel’s “Landscape with the Fall of” this figure. For 10 points, name this son of Daedalus, who dies when his wax wings melt after flying too close to the sun.
Icarus [accept Iapyx or Iapis until “whole pageantry”] &lt;RY&gt;
4

158846-)
While talking to Stanley, one character with this last name suddenly decides to create a garden, lamenting, “I don’t have a thing in the ground.” That character with this last name idolizes a man who did work from his hotel room, Dave Singleman. One character with this last name plans to sell sporting equipment with a plan called the “Florida idea.” Another character with this last name steals a (*) fountain pen and is often accompanied by flute music. That wife of Linda with his last name crashes a car and dies to give his family his life insurance money. For 10 points, identify this last name of Happy, Biff, and Willy, characters created by Arthur Miller for Death of a Salesman.
Loman [or the Lomans or the Loman family; prompt on the family from Death of a Salesman and equivalents until mention] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158848-)
In this novel, one man confesses he limps because his legs are out of practice and is named Brother Tarp. The protagonist of this novel meets a man who impregnated both his wife and daughter while traveling with Mr. Norton before going to the Golden Day. In this novel, one character must grab for coins on an electrified carpet after giving a (*) speech which lands him at a college run by Dr. Bledsoe. This character who has 1,369 lights in his room competes in a battle royal and works for Liberty Paints before joining the Brotherhood, which is opposed by Ras the Exhorter. For 10 points, name this novel about an unnamed black man, the magnum opus of Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [do not accept or prompt on “The Invisible Man”] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158878-)
In one work by this writer, a character is “chased by a horrible thing / which raced sideways while blowing bubbles,” and he also wrote a play named for Santa Claus. One of his poems describes women who are “unbeautiful and comfortable minds” and live in Cambridge. This writer of “i (*) carry your heart with me” and “maggie and milly and molly and may” asks, “how do you like your blue-eyed boy / Mister Death[?]” in another poem. The phrase “(with up so floating many bells down)” follows the title of another of his poems, “anyone lived in a pretty how town.” For 10 points, name this poet known for his unique use of grammar, punctuation, and capitalization.
e e cummings [accept Edward Estlin Cummings] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158904-)
Grace Ansley and Alida Slade are childhood friends originally from this U.S. state in the story “Roman Fever.” One character from this state marries Gilbert Osmond after rejecting Warburton and Goodwood. Winterbourne finds one character from this state in the Colosseum. In this state, Lily Bart falls from high society in The House of Mirth and Newland Archer falls for Ellen (*) Olenska in The Age of Innocence. A billboard in this state features the bespectacled eyes of T. J. Eckleberg. A green light is visible from a dock in this state’s fictional town of West Egg. For 10 points, name this state, the setting of The Great Gatsby and Washington Square and the home of the Empire State Building.
New York &lt;CL&gt;
4

158919-)
One poem by this author describes childhood as a “son unto Phlegm, grand-child to water.” According to one poem, this writer has a body made of “maize &amp; air” and is asked, “[M]oved you not restless, waiting for him?” This subject of a John Berryman poem and writer of “The Four Ages of Man” mourns, “My (*) hope and treasure lies above” in one work and addressed another to an “ill-formed offspring,” this author’s own book. This poet behind “Verses upon the Burning of our House” wrote a poem which opens, “If ever two were one, then surely we.” For 10 points, name this writer of The Tenth Muse Lately Sprung Up in America behind “To My Dear and Loving Husband,” a poet of the colonial era.
Anne Bradstreet [accept Anne Dudley] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158941-)
In an “autobiography” by an author of this ethnicity who mysteriously disappeared in 1974, the protagonist refers to this group as “buffalos” and gives himself a new middle name. The words “I will endure!” in all caps ends a poem written by an activist of this ethnicity nicknamed “Corky.” An author of this ethnicity inspired Raoul Duke’s Samoan attorney Dr. Gonzo in Hunter S. Thompson’s Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. In a novel by an author of this ethnicity, the protagonist desires to (*) “baptize” herself under a name like “Zeze the X” and tries on high heels with her friends Rachel and Lucy. That protagonist of this ethnicity is sexually assaulted at a carnival and composes “vignettes” (“vin-YETS”) during her time living in the title Chicago dwelling. For 10 points, the author of The House on Mango Street, Sandra Cisneros, is of what ethnicity?
Mexican-American [or Chicano; or Chicana; prompt on Latino, Latina or Hispanic] (the leadin clues Autobiography of a Brown Buffalo by Oscar Zeta Acosta) &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
7

158952-)
In a play by this author, a black man is told “you win many battles” after accompanying his lover on a visit to her in-laws wearing a summer suit but holding a chauffeur’s cap. This author who wrote about Henry and Albertine’s relationship in one play declared “I cannot and will not cut my conscience to fit this year’s fashions” in a celebrated letter refusing to name names to HUAC (“HYOO-ack”). Julian brings his new bride Lily home to his doting spinster sisters in this author’s play (*) Toys in the Attic. This author wrote a play in which Leo steals the wheelchair-bound Horace’s Union Pacific bonds, and one in which a girl alleges a lesbian affair between the boarding school operators Martha and Karen. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the lies of Mary Tilford in The Children’s Hour and Regina Hubbard Giddens in The Little Foxes.
Lillian Hellman &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
7

158955-)
In a story by this author, the narrator fantasizes about the “fairy mountain” that he can see from his house, but finds that a girl who lives on it, Marianna, daydreams about his house instead. A story by this author consists of a collection of “Sketches,” one of which describes an encounter with a Galápagos tortoise, while another describes the USS Essex encountering a phantom ship. A ladle falls into some smelting metal, blemishing a (*) bell that is rung by an automaton until it kills its master, the architect Bannadonna, in this author’s story “The Bell-Tower.” Nippers and Turkey work with the title character, who repeatedly states that he “prefers not to,” in a story by him. For 10 points, name this author of the collection The Piazza Tales, which contains “Bartleby, the Scrivener.”
Herman Melville &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
7

158974-)
A man working in this industry nicknames his coworkers “The Druid” and “The Clinger” and stares at mannequins cast from his model ex-wife in a novel that ends with trading his Ray-Bans for a bag of bread. A character working in this industry uses “Bolivian Marching Powder” at night clubs in Jay McInerney’s (“MACK-uh-NER-nee”) second-person novel Bright Lights, Big City. After falling asleep staring at his ivory Christ statuette, a character working in this industry dreams of (*) sacrificing a lamb in a novel that ends with him rushing down the stairs to embrace a crippled man carrying a wrapped gun. In that novel, the title character’s work in this industry involves advising figures like “Brokenhearted” and “Sick-of-it-all.” For 10 points, the title character of Nathanael West’s Miss Lonelyhearts works in what industry as an advice columnist?
publishing industry [accept any answers about the industry that produces newspapers, magazines, periodicals, or publications; accept journalism or journalist; accept printing; prompt on media; prompt on writing or writer; anti-prompt on advice column or advice columnist or fact-checking industry] &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
7

159008-)
In a poem set during this type of event, a stranger plays a piano upon arriving at a saloon and enters a fatal duel with Lou’s boyfriend. The protagonist of a novel set during this type of event is called “one in ten t’ousand” by Perrault and is violently beaten by the “man in the red sweater.” In a novel, Beauty Smith gets Grey Beaver drunk so that he can buy the (*) title character at a low price during this type of event, during which the narrator of a Robert Service poem cremates his “frozen chum” Sam McGee. John Thornton liberates the protagonist of a novel from his job as transportation for panners during this type of event. For 10 points, Jack London’s White Fang and Call of the Wild are set during what sort of event, in which Buck serves as a sled dog for prospectors in the Yukon?
gold rushes [accept Klondike gold rush or Yukon gold rush] (The first poem mentioned is “The Shooting of Dan McGrew.”) &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
7

159028-)
A member of this family has a nightmare in which a crowd of people force her to dive into a swimming pool to retrieve a can of coffee. That character’s brother angrily argues with this family’s mother Bessie after she interrupts him reading a script in the bathtub. A member of this family faints in a restaurant after describing a book about a Russian peasant’s quest to learn how to pray without ceasing to her disinterested boyfriend (*) Lane Coutell. The first member of this family to appear on the quiz show “It’s a Wise Child” commits suicide after telling the young Sybil Carpenter a story about creatures that gorge themselves to death in “A Perfect Day for Bananafish.” For 10 points, Franny, Zooey, and Seymour are members of what family created by J. D. Salinger?
the Glass family &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;
7

159045-)
This essay ridicules those who quote saints and sages noting that “those roses under my window make no reference to former roses or to better ones.” After bemoaning “we are now a mob,” this essay’s author remarks, “I like the silent church before the service begins, better than any preaching.” When a friend suggests that its author’s “impulses may be from below, not from above,” he replies “if I am the Devil’s child, I will live then from the Devil.” This essay compares (*) society to a joint-stock company and argues that “whoso would be a man, must be a nonconformist,” echoing its author’s “Divinity School Address.” Stating that “a foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds,” for 10 points, name this Ralph Waldo Emerson essay that advises “trust thyself.”
“Self-Reliance” &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;
7

159071-)
Asterisks appear before the names of soon-to-die characters throughout a novel by this author in which a tour group on Santa Rosalia become the progenitors of a race of furry seal-like mammals. Another novel by this author climaxes with an artist’s explanation of the “unwavering band of light” in his abstract painting of Saint Anthony. After reading a book in which he is told, “You are the only creature in the entire Universe who has free will,” the (*) car salesman Dwayne Hoover goes on a violent rampage in that novel by this author. The author of that in-universe book, Kilgore Trout, is also referenced in a novel by this author in which Billy Pilgrim hides out in the title location and becomes “unstuck in time.” For 10 points, name this author of Galápagos, Breakfast of Champions, and Slaughterhouse-Five.
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. &lt;JN, American Literature&gt;
7

159074-)
In a novel titled for one of these systems, it is revealed that the protagonist’s mother was bitten by a snake in a swamp while trying to return to her. In that novel, the news that black men and women employed at a Living History museum are, respectively, being injected with syphilis and sterilized prompts Cora to make use of one of these structures. Mr. Smooth-it away’s nostrils begin emitting smoke at the end of a Pilgrim’s Progress-inspired story by (*) Nathaniel Hawthorne set on a “celestial” one of these structures. Carl Sandburg called Chicago the “Player with” these structures, which are built by a company that fights with farmers in the San Joaquin Valley in Frank Norris’s The Octopus. For 10 points, what sort of structure literally takes slaves to freedom in a Colson Whitehead novel titled for the “Underground” one?
railroads [or train tracks; or equivalents; accept The Underground Railroad or “The Celestial Railroad”] &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
7

159106-)
Karen Andre claims to have faked Bjorn Faulkner’s fall from a penthouse balcony in an Ayn Rand play set in one of these places that has multiple endings depending on the actions of audience members. In one of these places, a character stresses the need to “look behind the paint” as he recounts how a toy horse broke when he rode it as a child. In this type of place, a character states that “If the Lord wishes a sponge to think, it thinks” and (*) collapses after straining his voice to yell as his microphone is turned off. In that play, a banner with the words “Read your Bible!” hangs in one of these places where a character based on William Jennings Bryan interrogates Bert Cates in Lawrence and Lee’s play Inherit the Wind. For 10 points, the opening scene of Reginald Rose’s play 12 Angry Men occurs in what sort of room, before the characters withdraw for deliberation?
courtrooms [or courthouses] (The Ayn Rand play is The Night of January 16th.) &lt;AP, American Literature&gt;
7

159143-)
The invocation “Clasp, Angel of the backward look” appears in a poem titled for this stuff that depicts Harriet Livermore as a “half-welcome guest” who would later travel to Jerusalem as a “crazy Queen of Lebanon.” A “gentle face – the face of one long dead” appears in a poem titled for this substance, in which a formation of it is compared to a mark that the speaker has worn “these eighteen years, through all the changing scenes” since the death by dress fire of his (*) wife. Longfellow wrote about a “Cross of” this substance, which the speaker wakes to “a universe of” in a long “idyll” by John Greenleaf Whittier. This substance appears as an adjective in the title of a poem that ends “and many miles to go before I sleep.” For 10 points, a Robert Frost speaker stops in a wood full of what substance?
snow &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
7

159162-)
This conflict inspired a poem that opens with the question “Hath not the morning dawned with added light?” That poem is “Ethnogenesis.” A poem about this war commands the title musical instruments to “leave not the bridegroom quiet, nor the peaceful farmer any peace” as they play “through the windows” and “through doors.” This conflict’s poetry is dismissed as “versified journalism” in literary critic (*) Edmund Wilson’s book Patriotic Gore. During his time as volunteer a nurse in this war, an author wrote the poems “Hush’d Be the Camps To-Day” and “Beat! Beat! Drums!” For 10 points, name this conflict that inspired Walt Whitman’s collection Drum-Taps and Herman Melville’s poem “Shiloh.”
American Civil War &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;
7

159173-)
This character is the sequentially [emphasize] first namesake of a short story in which the protagonist reminisces about his white girlfriend while buying a Creamsicle at a 7-11. This character is the first named in the title of a book that includes a story in which two teenagers bond while travelling to pick up a parent’s ashes, titled “This is What it Means to Say Phoenix, Arizona”; that book was adapted for the film Smoke Signals. This character, whose (*) “fistfight in heaven” with his companion names a Sherman Alexie collection, had a theme drawn from the finale of the William Tell Overture. This character, who used the phrase “Hi-yo, away” to call his horse Silver, addressed his companion as “Ke-mo sah-bee.” For 10 points, name this fictional mask-wearing Western hero of radio shows who fought outlaws alongside Tonto.
the Lone Ranger [prompt on The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven] &lt;AP, Other&gt; Bonuses
7

159174-)
The speaker of a poem by this author imagines being given things like “The Mountains” and “The Motions of the Dipping Birds” to “look at when I liked.” A 2018 film by Madeleine Olnek is titled for a poem by this author that ends with the controversially erotic line “might I but moor tonight in thee!” and exclaims “Done with the Compass – / Done with the Chart!” This author also wrote a poem that states “They might as wise have lodged a (*) Bird / For Treason – in the Pound” in recalling how “They shut me up in Prose.” This poet of “Wild Nights! Wild Nights!” described signing away “What portion of me be / Assignable” before a moment when “the King / Be witnessed – In the Room.” For 10 points, the line “The Stillness in the Room” appears in the poem “I heard a Fly buzz – when I died” by what reclusive New England poet?
Emily Dickinson &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
7

159203-)
A story by this author ends with the narrator recalling how his wife put her hand on his thigh while they drove home from the house of a couple with an incredibly ugly baby and a pet peacock. In another story by this author, a man rambles to the narrator about how he met his chimney sweep wife when he kissed her for “good luck.” While watching a TV film about the Middle Ages and (*) smoking weed, a man in one of his stories sits up and attempts to explain what the title object looks like to his blind guest. In another story by this author, Nick and Laura talk to Terri about her abusive ex Ed over gin. For 10 points, “Where I’m Calling From,” “Cathedral,” and “What We Talk About When We Talk About Love” are stories by what minimalist writer?
Raymond Carver &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
7

159223-)
An essay on this topic discusses a connoisseur of this topic named Toad-in-the-Hole who admires the beauty of a series of events on Ratcliffe Highway involving John Williams. Another essay titled for this practice calls English authors “incomparably the best dull writers” and criticizes an A. A. Milne novel titled for a red house. An essay on this topic considers “a Sunday afternoon, preferably before the war” on which “naturally, “you want to read about” this topic in News of the World. Thomas (*) de Quincey wrote about this activity “as a Fine Art,” and another essay considers a case involving a person with a cleft chin to explain why “you never get a good [one of these events] nowadays.” Raymond Chandler discussed “the simple art” of this crime. For 10 points, a George Orwell essay about the decline of what type of crime in England places Jack the Ripper “in a class by [himself]?”
murder [accept homicide or manslaughter; prompt on crime; anti-prompt on serial killings] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
7

159232-)
A monologue in this play repeatedly claims that “We all know that something is eternal.” A character in this play who later dies of pneumonia remarks that “People are meant to go through life two by two. ’Tain’t natural to be lonesome.” A character in this play explains his choice to forgo college and marry over ice-cream sodas in Morgan’s drugstore. The hymn (*) “Blessed Be the Tie that Binds” is repeated throughout this play, whose first act, subtitled “Daily Life,” includes a lecture by Professor Willard about the history of the setting. In the final act of this play a character asks “Does anyone ever realize Life while they live it…?” after reliving her 12th birthday party. For 10 points, name this Thornton Wilder play in which the Stage Manager tells the audience about the people of Grover’s Corners.
Our Town &lt;JH, American Literature&gt;
7

159248-)
In Travels with Charley, John Steinbeck spends Thanksgiving with a wealthy family in this US state, which he calls “a nation in every sense of the word.” This state’s unincorporated community of Thalia is the setting for novels like Horseman, Pass By. Characters like Woodrow Call and Gus McCrae work in a fictional town in this state. A judge in this state orders the return of Jimmy Blevins’s horse to John Grady Cole. A trip from this state to Montana is the subject of Lonesome Dove by Larry McMurtry, who set many of his novels in this state. In a 2005 novel, Carla Jean and Llewelyn Moss are killed in this state with a cattle gun by the insane hitman Anton Chigurh. For 10 points, Cormac McCarthy’s All the Pretty Horses and No Country for Old Men are set in Mexico and what neighboring US state?
Texas &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159261-)
A mural painter in one of these locations decides to kill himself by making an appointment with the Federal Bureau of Termination in Kurt Vonnegut’s story “2 B R 0 2 B” (“to be R not to be”). Shortly after Howard and Ann Weiss get home from one of these locations, a baker insistently calls them to ask them to pick up a cake for their son in Raymond Carver’s story “A Small, Good Thing.” A character dreams that one of these places is a “mechanical slaughterhouse” where Old Blastic is killed. Dale Harding is among the “acutes” who live in one of these places in a novel whose protagonist convinces the prostitute Candy to sleep with the stuttering Billy Bibbit. Chief Bromden escapes from one of these locations in a novel in which Randle McMurphy butts heads with Mildred Ratched. For 10 points, name this type of institution where Ken Kesey’s One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest is set.
hospitals [accept mental hospitals or psychiatric hospitals or the Chicago Lying-In Hospital; accept mental asylums or insane asylums or mental institutions] &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159287-)
When asked to adapt The Diary of Anne Frank for the stage, this playwright declined, assuming it would be too depressing, and suggested that Frances Goodrich and Albert Hackett adapt it instead. A play by this author opens with a black servant arranging glasses and a bottle of port for an “honored guest.” After the publication of this author’s memoir, the psychiatrist Muriel Gardiner claimed that she was the basis for the character of Julia, during a controversy in which this author sued Mary McCarthy for libel. This author wrote a play in which a disobedient student named Mary Tilford claims that her teachers Karen Wright and Martha Dobie are having an affair. In another of her plays, a woman blackmails her brothers after Leo steals railroad bonds from the deceased Horace. For 10 points, name this author of The Children’s Hour and The Little Foxes.
Lillian Hellman [or Lillian Florence Hellman] &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159312-)
A story by this author inspired the title of a novel in which Stuart Ressler studies the structure of the DNA molecule. The protagonist of a story by this author gets mad at his African-American servant for confusing his left eye with his right eye. The protagonist of that story by this author initially struggles to understand what is meant by the phrase “Bishop’s Hostel” until he realizes that it refers to a rock called Bessop’s Castle. This author helped popularize cryptography with a story about William Legrand’s search for treasure. The narrator of a story by this author reads The Mad Trist to a man who dies of fright when his twin sister Madeline, who he thought was dead, appears in the doorway. For 10 points, name this author of “The Gold-Bug” and “The Fall of the House of Usher.”
Edgar Allan Poe (The novel in the first sentence is The Gold Bug Variations by Richard Powers.) &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159332-)
The day before his death, this author started writing an essay reminiscing about the time he met a woman in a snowstorm who turned out to be his literary idol, Willa Cather. One of this author’s books grew out of a trip he took to the Soviet Union with an opera company that was putting on a touring production of Porgy and Bess. This author of The Muses Are Heard honored the publisher Katharine Graham with a masquerade party held at the Plaza Hotel called the Black and White Ball. This partner of Jack Dunphy compiled 8,000 pages of research for a book that began as a series of New Yorker articles, for which he traveled to Holcomb, Kansas, with his childhood friend Harper Lee. That “nonfiction novel” by this author is about the brutal murder of the Clutter family. For 10 points, name this author of In Cold Blood and Breakfast at Tiffany’s.
Truman Capote [or Truman Garcia Capote; or Truman Streckfus Persons] &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159359-)
A poet from this state told of “something unsaid, a phone off the hook” in the last stanza of a poem which declares that “suicides have a special language.” A poet from this state wrote that “Beauty is its own excuse for being” in a poem which muses that “the self-same Power that brought me here brought you.” That poem is subtitled “On Being Asked, Whence Is the Flower?” and is called “The Rhodora.” A poem set in this state begins by describing “a Sahara of snow” where an aquarium stands. A monument in this state “sticks like a fishbone in the city’s throat” in Robert Lowell’s “For the Union Dead.” In another poem set in this state, “Hardly a man is now alive who remembers the famous day and year” of the title event, which included the direction “one if by land, two if by sea.” For 10 points, name this home state of Ralph Waldo Emerson, the setting of “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
Massachusetts (The poem in the first sentence is Anne Sexton’s “Wanting to Die.”) &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159376-)
This author wrote about a giant Venus flytrap that refuses to eat anyone and a man piloting a fake iceberg to Florida in a collection of bar stories told by Harry Purvis called Tales from the White Hart. In one of his novels, Jan Rodricks becomes the last living human after Earth’s children merge into a hive mind thanks to the influence of Karellen and the other Overlords. The line “overhead, without any fuss, the stars were going out” ends a story by this author in which monks use a computer to list the title appellations. This author of Childhood’s End and “The Nine Billion Names of God” wrote a novel in which the Discovery One is sent on a mission to Iapetus, during which Dave Bowman is forced to shut down the computer HAL 9000. For 10 points, name this author of 2001: A Space Odyssey.
Arthur C. Clarke [or Arthur Charles Clarke] &lt;Trash&gt;
7

159381-)
This poem’s main character remarks of “how all things fade and perish” before painting a number of symbols, including white and dark circles representing Life and Death. At the end of this poem, people say “Farewell forever!” to the main character before various natural phenomena also wish him farewell. After failing to kill a man wearing an apparently magical shirt, the protagonist of this poem is told to shoot him on the top of his head by a woodpecker. Like Alhalla by Henry Rowe Schoolcraft, whose research informed this poem, this poem imitates the Kalevala in its use of trochaic (“tro-KAY-ick”) tetrameter. This poem takes place “by the shores of Gitche Gumee (“GITCH-ee GUM-ee”),” which is an Ojibwe (“oh-JIB-way”) name for Lake Superior. For 10 points, name this epic poem about a lover of Minnehaha, written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
The Song of Hiawatha &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159389-)
This poem inspired Terrance Hayes to create a poetic form that takes a poetic quote and uses each word from the quote as a successive end word. This poem’s author compared a repeated word in this poem to “Kilroy-is-here” announcements in the autobiographical book Report from Part One. A book named after this poem argues that the hip-hop notion of “keeping it real” reflects an emotional immaturity that perversely embraces this poem’s final line. That book, subtitled “Black Men and Masculinity,” is by Bell Hooks. This poem from the collection The Bean Eaters has a subtitle indicating that it’s about “the pool players,” “seven at the Golden Shovel.” The main characters of this poem “lurk late,” “strike straight,” and “jazz June.” For 10 points, name this eight-line poem by Gwendolyn Brooks consisting of eight three-word sentences starting with the word “we.”
“We Real Cool” (The form created by Terrance Hayes is called the Golden Shovel. I’ve capitalized bell hooks’s name for ease of reading, but her name is written without capitals.) &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159403-)
After arriving in this state, a character starts to doubt his own past life on Cordelia Street. A story set in this state includes a note stating that the events are “beyond the possibility of a doubt” because of the existence of a certificate signed with a cross by a judge. A character steals money from Denny &amp; Carson’s and runs away to this state in a story subtitled “A Study in Temperament,” Willa Cather’s “Paul’s Case.” At the end of a story set in this state, the title character notices an image of George Washington instead of George III on a sign when he returns from the sight of men playing nine-pins. Some stories set in this state are attributed to the fictional historian Diedrich Knickerbocker. For 10 points, name this state, the setting of Washington Irving’s “Rip Van Winkle” and “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.”
New York [or NY] &lt;American Literature&gt; Bonuses
7

159417-)
A mocking prayer printed on white cardboard and addressed to this character asks his soul, body, blood, and tears to respectively “glorify,” “nourish,” “intoxicate” and “wash me.” This character is instructed to teach his audience to pray “Give us this day our daily stone” in a chapter titled for him “and the Dead Pan.” After singing an obscene version of “Mary Had a Little Lamb” with Steve and Jud, he kills a lamb with a stone in a dream sequence following the description of an ivory Christ that he pulled off its crucifix and nailed to the wall. In the last chapter, he “Has a Religious Experience” ended by a gun hidden in a newspaper, carried by a cripple he tries to heal. This man, who is killed by Peter Doyle for sleeping with his wife, also sleeps with the wife of his irreligious editor Shrike. For 10 points, name this columnist for the Post-Dispatch with a feminine moniker who titles a Nathanael West novel.
Miss Lonelyhearts &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159438-)
A book by this author ends with the hope that “a world that sensitive and timid natures could regard without a shudder” would emerge. This author’s autobiography conspicuously fails to mention his wife Marian, nicknamed “Clover,” whose suicide devastated this man. This author contrasts his narrow possibilities with the open future of his friend Clarence King in a book in which he refers to himself in the third person. This author’s visit to the 1900 World’s Fair inspired him to contrast traditional religious values, represented by the Virgin Mary, with technological progress, represented by the dynamo. This author reflected at length on two medieval cathedrals in his book Mont Saint Michel and Chartres (“shart”). For 10 points, a 1918 autobiography details the “education” of what author, who was descended from two presidents?
Henry Adams [or Henry Brooks Adams] &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159445-)
A character created by this playwright claims that her mother starred in the Broadway production of The Man Who Came to Dinner and was in the original company of Strange Interlude. This author created a character who takes an entire bottle of green pills, prompting another man to optimistically note “Maybe they were vitamins. He could be the healthiest one in the room!” In a play by this author, the “fifteen-and-a-half” year-old Jay and his brother Arty stay with their eccentric Aunt Bella. In another of his plays, a leaking skylight and the intrusions of the neighbor Victor Velasco disturb the married life of the newlyweds Paul and Corie Bratter. This author wrote a play about the relationship between the slob Oscar Madison and the neatnik Felix Ungar. For 10 points, name this playwright of Lost in Yonkers, Barefoot in the Park, and The Odd Couple.
Neil Simon [or Marvin Neil Simon] &lt;American Literature&gt; Bonuses
7

159451-)
Augustin Daly’s play Under the Gaslight is best remembered for a scene in which a character is nearly killed by one of these vehicles. The first chapter of Wise Blood was expanded from a Flannery O’Connor story titled for one of these vehicles. In a play named after these vehicles, Risa, who has mutilated her own legs with a razor, works at a restaurant run by Memphis Lee, whose clientele includes characters like Hambone and Holloway. That play from August Wilson’s Pittsburgh Cycle is named for two of these vehicles. One of these vehicles titles a Patricia Highsmith novel about the architect Guy Haines and the playboy Charles Anthony Bruno. In Atlas Shrugged, Dagny Taggart works for a company that deals with these vehicles. For 10 points, name these vehicles, one of which is the subject of Chris Van Allsburg’s The Polar Express.
trains [accept equivalents, such as locomotives] (Under the Gaslight is the origin of the trope where a villain ties someone to the railroad tracks.) &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159485-)
A character created by this author decides to give a nun “the freedom to follow her own destiny” and declares that “everyone is a nun” after having a mystical experience. That character created by this author pretends to be the great-nephew of a French painter in order to work for a Japanese-Canadian couple’s correspondence art school. In another story by this author, a character who calls his wife “Miss Spiritual Tramp of 1948” is yelled at for looking at a woman’s feet in an elevator. In a story by this author of “De Daumier-Smith’s Blue Period,” a man shoots himself at a Florida hotel after taking Sybil Carpenter to look for the title aquatic creatures. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the death of Seymour Glass in “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” and who also wrote The Catcher in the Rye.
J. D. Salinger [or Jerome David Salinger] &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159495-)
This author wrote a short story that is only six paragraphs long, and which begins with the sentence: “I am losing my interest in human beings; in the significance of their lives and their actions.” One of this author’s protagonists gets into an argument with her father, a former colonel in the Confederate army, over her unwillingness to attend her sister’s wedding. In a story by this author of “The Night Came Slowly,” the protagonist mutters the words “free, free, free!” after hearing that her husband has died in a railroad accident, but then dies of a heart attack when that husband returns alive. This author of “The Story of an Hour” wrote a novella whose protagonist considers having an affair with Robert Lebrun while vacationing on Grand Isle in Louisiana. For 10 points, Edna Pontellier’s identity as a woman rather than just as a wife or mother is kindled in what author’s novella The Awakening?
Kate Chopin [or Katherine O’Flaherty] &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159516-)
The central family in this novel goes to Vincent’s once a month to eat baked ziti. A character in this novel wears a veil made from the bottom of an old stocking, which she says helps prevent her stuttering. The protagonist of this novel makes his fortune by taking over his father’s luxury glove factory. That protagonist has an affair with his daughter’s speech therapist, Sheila Salzman. Rita Cohen sexually taunts the protagonist of this novel, and helps him locate his missing daughter. In this novel, a former Miss New Jersey named Dawn Dwyer gets a facelift to impress the architect Bill Orcutt, with whom she has an affair. Prior to the action of this novel, Merry plants a bomb in a post office in protest of the Vietnam War. Nathan Zuckerman narrates, for 10 points, what novel about Seymour “The Swede” Levov’s supposedly idyllic life, written by Philip Roth?
American Pastoral &lt;American Literature&gt;
7

159531-)
In an essay titled for this book’s author’s “Ambiguity,” Edmund Wilson argued that its central character is a “case of sex repression.” The ambiguous exclamation “you devil!” in this book’s last chapter may refer to either the direct antecedent or to the other person in the room. A boy in this story reveals that because he said things to “those he liked” who must have passed it on to “those they liked,” he was expelled from school. That boy claims to have put out a (*) candle that interrupts the writing of a letter. In the frame story to this work, Douglas reads from a manuscript on Christmas Eve. In this novella, Mrs. Grose finds Flora by a lake. Miles dies after an apparition of the ghost of Peter Quint in, for 10 points, what work by Henry James?
The Turn of the Screw &lt;JG, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159540-)
This author calls multiplication tables, grand opera, and a carpenter’s trade beautiful in their pure form in a preface to a larger work. This poet described a steamship skipper saving a crew and passengers from a wreck in a stanza that declares that the narrator understands “the large hearts of heroes, The courage of present times and all times.” An 80-year-old farmer who is “the father of five sons” is the most (*) “vigorous of the group” in a poem by this author. In another poem, this author declares “I loaf and invite my soul” in the opening stanza, which begins “every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “I Sing the Body Electric” who included “Song of Myself” in his collection Leaves of Grass.
Walt Whitman &lt;RR, Poetry&gt;
6

159562-)
This author claimed that a certain genre of novel leaves little room for criticism because it has a “depressing way of minding its own business… and answering its own questions.” That essay posits that a certain character must be a “complete,” “common,” and “unusual” man. This author wrote a novel in which the disappearance of Vivian’s husband Rusty is assumed to be associated with that of Mona Mars, and the protagonist kills Canino. This author of “The Simple Art of (*) Murder” wrote a novel in which Arthur Geiger, who had been blackmailing the rambunctious Carmen, is killed. For 10 points, name this author who introduced the detective Philip Marlowe in The Big Sleep.
Raymond Chandler &lt;JG, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159592-)
In an early play by this author, a man on a bench muses over the predator–prey relationship between a blue heron and a duck, describing it as a battle as old as time itself. In another play by this author, an activist named Karen seduces a producer in the hopes of greenlighting an adaptation of a book that describes the harmful effects of radiation. This author penned the line “All train compartments smell vaguely of shit” to open a rambling monologue set in a (*) Chinese restaurant. At that same restaurant, two men coyly discuss the idea of robbing their office to obtain the play’s namesake leads, an action that is eventually undertaken by the salesman Shelley “The Machine” Levine. For 10 points, name this playwright famed for distinctive fast-paced, vulgar dialogue, such as in Speed-the-Plow and Glengarry Glen Ross.
David Mamet &lt;BN, Drama&gt;
6

159609-)
One poem describes the “hungry mouth” of one of these objects as “prest Against” a “sweet flowing breast.” A poem titled for some of these objects describes how “A delight / comes sudden” on the speaker’s heart after earlier having “lost beauties and feelings.” Another poem describes how these objects “click upon themselves” before comparing them to “girls on hands and knees.” Unlike poems, only (*) God can make one of these objects, according to a Joyce Kilmer poem titled for them. An area filled with these objects is “My Prison” in a Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem. Another poem concludes that one could “do worse than be a swinger” of these objects. For 10 points, name these objects Robert Frost wrote about in “Birches.”
trees [accept “Birches” or “Lime-Trees”] &lt;JG, Poetry&gt; Bonuses
6

159623-)
This is the first noun in the title of a story whose narrator claims that “In our family, there was no clear line between religion” and an activity centered on these things. In addition to that story by Norman MacLean, one of these things titles a story in which the central character only speaks three times, once to utter “Geezus Chrise” after burning his tongue on hot beans and spaghetti. That almost dialogue-free two-part story titled for one of these thing ends with Nick (*) Adams washing a trout. That story by Ernest Hemingway is titled for a “Big Two Hearted” one of these features. Salim makes his way in a country led by “the Big Man” in a novel titled for one of these geographic features. For 10 points, V. S. Naipaul wrote a novel titled for A Bend in what sort of geographic feature?
river [accept A River Runs Through It, “Big Two Hearted River” or A Bend in the River] &lt;JG, Misc Literature&gt;
6

159628-)
Two characters in this play simultaneously hallucinate that the figures in an interactive diorama are actually their estranged lovers. Another character in this play refers to herself as “I-I-I-I,” referencing her four emanations of Fluor, Phosphor, Lumen, and Candle. The drag queen Belize attends to two hospitalized characters in this work, one of whom pretends he has liver cancer and is haunted by the ghost of (*) Ethel Rosenberg. That character offers a post in the Justice Department to the Mormon lawyer Joe Pitt, and is a thinly fictionalized version of Roy Cohn. In this play, Louis Ironson abandons his sick boyfriend Prior Walter while Prior is suffering from AIDS. For 10 points, name this play, subtitled “a gay fantasia on national themes,” written by Tony Kushner.
Angels in America: A Gay Fantasia on National Themes [accept Angels in America: Perestroika before “Justice Department”] &lt;RR, Drama&gt;
6

159662-)
In one novel by this author, a soldier shoots a little girl who tells him “yum-yum” because he is tempted by her offer. In the opening chapter of that novel by this author, a brother and sister watch a fight between two horses that rose up on their hind legs “like men.” One of this author’s protagonists rescues his sister Ycidra and brings her back to their hometown of Lotus, Georgia. This creator of (*) Frank Money wrote a novel in which Robert Smith crafts blue silk wings to fly off the roof of Mercy Hospital before the birth of the protagonist, who travels to Shalimar to learn more about the history of his family. This author of Home created a protagonist nicknamed “Milkman” for an earlier novel. For 10 points, name this Nobel Prize-winning American author of Song of Solomon and Beloved.
Toni Morrison [or Chloe Ardelia Wofford] &lt;RR, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159681-)
The protagonist of this story notes that children have gnawed on the bed, and comments that the room looks “as if a boys’ school had used it.” This story was inspired by the author’s struggles with neurasthenia, for which the author sought treatment from a doctor who developed the “West cure.” This story’s protagonist believes what her brother and husband say because they are (*) doctors. A pattern described as a “debased Romanesque” appears on the title object of this story. At the end of this story, the narrator tells her husband that she’s “got out at last,” appearing to have assumed the personality of the woman hidden in the design of the title object. For 10 points, name this story named for a psychosis-inducing room decoration, written by Charlotte Perkins Gilman.
“The Yellow Wallpaper” &lt;RR, Short Fiction&gt;
6

159728-)
A character in this novel recovers from a “Great Stupor” by frequently playing Aida on a newly acquired gramophone. A character in this novel is unsettled when he thinks a woman whistles at him from her stomach, but is reassured when he learns that she is a member of the “Half-Lung Club.” A character in this novel who always smokes Maria Mancini cigars is accused of “living horizontally” by a man working on a Sociology of Suffering. The overbearing (*) Mynheer Peeperkorn bests the protagonist of this novel in the contest for Clavdia Chauchat. Much of this novel is taken up by debates between Naphta and Settembrini. This novel begins with a planned short visit to Joachim Ziemssen by Hans Castorp. For 10 points, name this Thomas Mann novel set largely in a Swiss sanatorium.
The Magic Mountain &lt;JG, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159734-)
The antagonist of one story by this author wears a “maroon-colored flannel shirt” made by “some Jewish women on the east side of New York.” That character created by this author causes the Weary Gentlemen Saloon to board up and a drummer to take refuge under the bar because of stray bullets. The protagonist of a story by this author nervously checks his watch multiple times on a train from San Antonio to the (*) title town. Scratchy Wilson stands down in a confrontation with Sheriff James Potter because he finds out that Potter is newly married in one story by this author, who also created Henry Fleming in his best-known novel. For 10 points, name this author of “The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky” and The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane &lt;RR, Short Fiction&gt;
6

159748-)
This author wrote about his English grandmother Emily Dickinson Wellcome in the poem “Dedication for a Plot of Ground.” The speaker of another of this author’s poems describes dancing naked when his wife and baby are sleeping and asks “who shall say I am not / the happy genius of my household?” A poem about “Variations on a theme” of this author relates the story of how “I gave away the (*) money that you had been saving to live on for the next ten years” and asks for forgiveness because the “March wind” seemed “juicy and cold.” That parody of this author of “Danse Russe” is by Kenneth Koch and makes fun of a poem about eating some plums in an icebox. For 10 points, name this American poet of “This is Just to Say” and “The Red Wheelbarrow.”
William Carlos Williams &lt;RR, Poetry&gt;
6

159768-)
The stage directions to this play indicate that three characters raise their full whiskey glasses then simultaneously put them down once a fourth person starts talking. Two characters in this play discuss whether a sanatorium is a “state farm” or not. The sound of a foghorn startles one character in this play into miming playing piano, as she had in a convent in her youth. This play concludes with a monologue delivered by a character holding her (*) wedding dress as her Shakespearean actor husband and two sons look on. Dr. Hardy delivers a diagnosis that James fears will cost him too much money in this play. In the last act of this play, Edmund reveals that he has tuberculosis to attempt to snap Mary out of her morphine fog. For 10 points, name this play about the Tyrone family, written by Eugene O’Neill.
Long Day’s Journey Into Night &lt;RR, Drama&gt;
6

159772-)
The protagonist of Charles Chesnutt’s The House Behind the Cedars, John Warwick, holds this profession. The preface to one novel quotes Charles Lamb saying that members of this profession “were, I suppose, children once.” Gavin Stevens holds this profession in Yoknapatawpha County. This is the profession of Ellis Burden while he was with his wife in All The King’s Men. Another member of this profession tells his son that he wants him to see that courage is something other than “a man with a (*) gun in his hand,” and sends his son to read to the morphine-addicted Mrs. DuBose. That member of this profession employs Calpurnia and lives next door to Boo Radley in Maycomb, Alabama. For 10 points, name this profession held by Atticus Finch.
lawyer [or law or attorney; or The Scholarly Attorney; prompt on district attorney with “What’s the general profession?”] &lt;RR, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159782-)
This author critiqued a certain genre of writing for insisting that it is a human being’s “categorization alone which is real and cannot be transcended.” This author wrote about going to see the movie This Land Is Mine and throwing a pitcher of water at a waitress at the “American Diner” in one book. This author spoke about realizing that the American flag “has not pledged allegiance to you” in a debate with William F. Buckley. This author criticized the character of (*) Bigger Thomas for perpetuating racist stereotypes of African-Americans in “Everybody’s Protest Novel,” an essay in a collection named after a Richard Wright novel. This author’s essay “Letter to My Nephew” inspired Ta-Nehisi Coates’s Between the World and Me, and his words were used for the film I Am Not Your Negro. For 10 points, name this African-American author of Notes of a Native Son and The Fire Next Time.
James Baldwin (The genre in the lead-in is “protest novel.”) &lt;RR, Misc Literature&gt;
6

159792-)
In one of this author’s stories, the Judge, Yuba Bill, and other travelers learn that a woman who used to work at the Polka Saloon now owns a grizzly named Joaquin and cares for a paralytic man named Jim. One of this author’s characters uses Alexander Pope’s translation of The Iliad to tell stories about a Greek hero whom the characters call “Ash-heels.” This author of the story “Miggles” edited the 19th-century magazine Overland (*) Monthly, in which he published a story centering on “The Duchess,” “Mother Shipton,” and others who get caught in a snowstorm after being exiled from the title town. For 10 points, name this author who pioneered “local color” regionalism in his stories, such as one about John Oakhurst titled “The Outcasts of Poker Flat.”
Bret Harte &lt;IJ, Short Fiction&gt;
6

159803-)
A character in this novel is introduced as “the girl with eyes like Egypt and nylons the color of smoke.” That character travels out-of-state to get married before eighth grade, and abandons the protagonist by a display of red clowns at a carnival, after which the protagonist is sexually assaulted. The protagonist of this novel steals two dollars from her sister to buy a bike by pooling money with her new friends Lucy and Rachel. The protagonist of this novel dislikes her name and wishes to change it to (*) “Zeze the X.” The protagonist and her sister Nenny play with other neighborhood kids while living at the title location in Chicago in this novel. For 10 points, name this novel composed of 44 vignettes centered on the life of Esperanza Cordero, written by Sandra Cisneros.
The House on Mango Street &lt;RR, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159826-)
A man named Jesse takes over his family’s farm in this place after his four brothers die in the Civil War. A doctor who lives here tells another man, “Everyone in the world is Christ and they are all crucified.” This is the residence of Dr. Parcival and the setting of the story “Godliness,” and a man living under a pseudonym here recounts when he was kicked out of Pennsylvania for allegedly (*) molesting young boys. Residents of this town including Dr. Reefy and Adolph Myers tell their stories to a newspaper reporter of this town named George Willard. For 10 points, name this fictional Ohio town that titles a short story collection by Sherwood Anderson.
Winesburg, Ohio (prompt on Ohio until mention) &lt;Suh&gt;
4

159832-)
This character tells another character that “none of his certainties [are] worth one strand of a woman’s hair.” This character is taught to spray seawater into the sky by a character who sees a Fernandel film with him, and he observes Thomas Pérez lagging behind a procession. This character wants to be (*) greeted “with howls of execration” at his execution. This neighbor of the dog-owner Salamano and friend of Raymond Sintès begins a novel saying “Mama died yesterday, or maybe today.” This character apathetically remarks that he feels the sun’s heat before shooting an Arab. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Albert Camus’s The Stranger.
Meursault (prompt on The Stranger, L’Étranger or The Outsider) &lt;Yue&gt;
4

159858-)
This man is savagely attacked in the memoir Leaving the Doll’s House by his ex-wife Claire Bloom. This author penned an open letter to Wikipedia to dispute that Anatole [“ah-na-toll”] Broyard inspired his character of Coleman Silk, and Newark resident Dawn undergoes plastic surgery after her daughter blows up the Old Rimrock post office in one of his novels narrated by (*) Nathan Zuckerman. This author wrote an infamous scene involving liver and a libidinous character who monologues to psychoanalyst Doctor Spielvogel. For 10 points, name this novelist who passed in May 2018, the author of American Pastoral and Portnoy’s Complaint.
Philip Milton Roth &lt;Yue/Kuang&gt;
4

159871-)
This author described a year in the life of Euclide and Cécile Auclair in Shadows on the Rock. In a novel by this author, “Outland vacuum” caused by World War I affects the daughter of Godfrey St. Peter. This author of The Professor’s House included the section “The White Mulberry Tree” in a novel in which Frank shoots Emil. This author wrote novels about (*) Alexandra Bergson and singer Thea Kronborg, and Lena Lingard tells one of this author’s narrators to visit a woman with the last name Shimerda who had previously moved to Nebraska. For 10 points, name this author whose Prairie Trilogy includes O Pioneers! and My Ántonia.
Willa Cather &lt;Levine&gt;
4

159883-)
In a play by this author, a character suspects that “cultures and races will vanish [and] ants will take over the world.” In one play by this author, a character gives hamburgers to a black dog, and in another a character calls his father-in-law a “great white mouse.” A, B, and C are the title Three Tall Women in a play by this author, and in another Jerry (*) impales himself on a knife held by Peter. An imaginary son dies swerving his car to avoid a porcupine in a play by this author, and in that play’s section “Walpurgisnacht,” the game “Get the Guests” is played at George and Martha’s house. For 10 points, name this author of Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
Edward Albee III &lt;Yue&gt;
4

159920-)
The speaker of one of this poet’s poems “lost a world the other day,” and this poet depicted “I and silence some strange race / Wrecked, solitary, here” in another poem. One of this poet’s speakers “sign[s] away / What portion of me I / Could make assignable,” and another sees “a house that seemed / a swelling of the ground.” One of this poet’s speakers (*) “could not see to see” after a hearing a “blue, uncertain, stumbling buzz,” and another passes by schoolchildren in a “carriage [that] held but just ourselves / And Immortality” after the title figure “kindly stopped for [her].” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Emily Dickinson &lt;Yue&gt;
4

159937-)
It’s not a writer, but one character with this profession makes flints at Auschwitz, and another works under Max Gottlieb at the Caribbean island St. Hubert. Septimus Hodge wonders “what becomes of free will” when considering the work of a man with this profession. A character talks to Dr. Asa Breed about a man in his karass with this profession before visiting (*) San Lorenzo with that man’s children. A character with this profession describes his time studying at Ingolstadt to Robert Walpole; that character’s creation frightens and kills his fiancée Elizabeth. For 10 points, identify this profession of Victor Frankenstein and Isaac Newton.
scientist (accept mad scientist, chemist, or physicist; prompt on researcher; prompt on doctor with “That’s their degrees, but what do they do?”) &lt;Yue&gt;
4

159941-)
In a short story by this author, the narrator discovers an elongated Spanish pistol while fishing, which prompts his companions to recite a song about the titular “hardy adventurer.” In addition to “Kidd the Pirate,” this author penned a story whose protagonist’s wife disappears after venturing into a nearby swamp to meet Old Scratch; that Faust-like story is “The (*) Devil and Tom Walker.” Another story by this author sees the protagonist mysteriously disappear from the title locale after a confrontation with a ghostly “headless” Hessian. For 10 points, name this author of “The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.”
Washington Irving &lt;R. Li&gt;
4

159963-)
In a poem by this author, a woman “[Cries] out in dismay / At what [a] god had wrought / To please her son.” Thetis is horrified by the title imagery in this man’s “Shield of Achilles,” and in another of his poems, the speaker notes that the “torturer's horse / Scratches its innocent behind on a tree.” That poem begins “about (*) suffering they were never wrong, / The old Masters.” A poem by this man begins “in one of the dives / On Fifty-second Street” and is titled for the day that Nazi Germany invaded Poland. For 10 points, name this author of “Musée des Beaux Arts” [“moo-ZAY day BO art”] and “September 1, 1939”.
Wystan Hugh Auden &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

159967-)
In this play, a character says his date “mutilates” her hair every week before promising to talk with her about “identity.” A mother in this play is mad her son doesn’t give a “Christian greeting” before asking about money, and she carries her cherished plant offstage to end this play. Bobo does not meet Willy Harris in this play, and a down (*) payment on a Clybourne Park house is almost bought off by Karl Lindner. In this play, an insurance check could fund Beneatha’s medical school tuition or Walter’s liquor store dreams. For 10 points, name this play about the Younger family taking its title from a Langston Hughes poem, a play by Lorraine Hansberry.
A Raisin in the Sun &lt;Yue&gt;
4

159996-)
A poem by this man says that “whatever is done / by only me is your doing,” and he wrote “a leaf falls” in a poem that is otherwise just the word “loneliness.” In another poem, he wrote that “only the snow can begin to explain how / children are apt to forget to remember,” and in another, concluded that “it’s always (*) ourselves that we find in the sea.” One of this poet’s characters’ “warmest heart recoiled at war,” and another “used to / ride a watersmooth-silver / stallion.” This poet asked, “how do you like your blue-eyed boy / Mister Death,” and sang “of Olaf glad and big.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Buffalo Bill’s” and “anyone lived in a pretty how town.”
edward estlin cummings &lt;Yue&gt;
4

160008-)
In a play by this author, the tension between a father and his oldest son builds until the play’s third act, when the son unsuccessfully attempts to assault the father. A maid in that play attempts to seduce the father, who becomes the president of the Fraternal Order of Mammals. In another play by this man, the “troubles” of an alcoholic (*) choir director go unnoticed until he hangs himself in his attic. Simon Stimson is a resident of this author’s fictional town of Grover’s Corners in a play that asks, “Do any human beings ever realize life while they live it?” For 10 points, name this American playwright of The Skin of Our Teeth and Our Town.
Thornton Wilder &lt;Suh&gt; Bonuses
4

160025-)
A character in this work with a “scholarly look” briefly reminisces about his time as a gospel singer and undertaker to a woman whose claims of “injuring an organ” goes unnoticed. A filling station owner in this work laments “everything is getting terrible” after declaring this short story’s title phrase; that character’s name is (*) Red Sammy. Near the end of this story, John Wesley and his father Bailey are shot by Hiram and Bobby Lee, who are accomplices of an escaped killer with “silver-rimmed spectacles.” For 10 points, name this short story that ends with the Misfit murdering the Grandmother, a work by Flannery O’Connor.
“A Good Man is Hard to Find” &lt;R. Li&gt;
4

160029-)
In one scene from this novel, the protagonist enjoys a hamburger at a remote roadside diner but is shocked to find that the man behind the counter is philosopher Hugh Akston. After the protagonist’s sister-in-law commits suicide, the protagonist of this novel and her (*) steel magnate lover go to dinner, where they see a message written by Francisco d'Anconia, a childhood friend of protagonist Dagny Taggart. Railway worker John Galt attempts a revolution in this book and delivers a 70-page speech in which he outlines the author’s principles of Objectivism. For 10 points, name this novel by Ayn Rand.
Atlas Shrugged &lt;Cohen&gt; Bonuses
4

160043-)
In a story by this author, the narrator reflects on a sentence beginning “Mortuus est Dei filius” and discovers 32 teeth scattered on the floor. A character in another of this author’s stories reads to a woman of “immense…learning” a poem about “the tragedy, ‘Man,’ / And its hero the (*) Conqueror Worm.” A sound compared to a “watch…enveloped in cotton” is ignored by officers “making a mockery of [the narrator’s] horror” in a story by this author in which the narrator is unsettled by the “vulture eye” of an old man and kills him. For 10 points, name this American author of “The Tell-Tale Heart.”
Edgar Allan Poe &lt;Yue&gt;
4

160052-)
In one of this author’s stories, a “grub-man” is introduced to the title character despite him being “unused to dinners.” The terrified title character of another story by this author gets a daily shave and is asked “what has cast such a shadow upon” him. A captain is forcibly directed by the slave Babo in a work from his (*) The Piazza Tales, and he created a character who is fired from a job with Turkey and Nippers. This author wrote of a clerk in a law office who refuses to do work with the phrase “I would prefer not to.” For 10 points, name this author of “Benito Cereno” and “Bartleby the Scrivener” better known for penning Moby-Dick.
Herman Melville &lt;Yue&gt;
4

160084-)
In a poem by this author, the speaker addresses the title heavenly body and begs it to “say something” before it responds, “I burn.” Besides “Choose Something Like a Star,” this author wrote another poem in which he recounts how “one luminary clock against the sky / Proclaimed the time was neither wrong nor right.” In another poem (*) by this author of “Acquainted With the Night,” the speaker announces that he has “promises to keep” before noting that he has “miles to go before I sleep.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.”
Robert Lee Frost &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

160100-)
In this place, the narrator of a novel recognizes a man selling dancing dolls in the street, and earlier an employer in this area shows the narrator Dr. Bledsoe’s letters. This setting of Nella Larsen’s Passing is also the setting of a novel depicting Brother Elisha and other characters on John Grimes’s fourteen birthday. The (*) Brotherhood and Ras the Destroyer live here in a novel, and one of its former residents set his novel Go Tell It on the Mountain here, where author James Baldwin had met Countee Cullen. For 10 points, name this location home to Claude McKay that titles a poem about “a dream deferred” by Langston Hughes, a member of its “Renaissance.”
Harlem (prompt on New York City or equivalents) &lt;Yue&gt;
4

160113-)
The protagonist of this novel notices a photo of a hen on a blurred rock before getting drunk for the second time in his life. A character in this novel hates the word “hulking,” and another requests performances of a Vladimir Tostoff piece and “The Love Nest.” In this novel, a character with (*) cufflinks made of teeth fixed the 1919 World Series, and a yellow car kills a resident of the “Valley of Ashes” watched over by T. J. Eckleburg. Jordan Baker attends the parties of the title character of this novel, who fixates on a green light on Daisy Buchanan’s dock. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Nick Carraway by F. Scott Fitzgerald.
The Great Gatsby &lt;Yue&gt; Bonuses
4

160119-)
This poet described a character who woos a “blue-eyed maid” and cries, “Skoal!” in a poem inspired by the discovery of a skeleton of an apparent Viking. A character in one of this man’s poems “thought of Christ, who stilled the wave, / On the Lake of Galilee.” Sections like “The Four Winds” and “The (*) White Man’s Foot” appear in one of this author’s epics, and another is titled Evangeline, A Tale of Acadie. The most famous poem by this author of The Song of Hiawatha begins, “Listen, my children, and you shall hear.” For 10 points, name this American poet who relates a warning of the incoming British forces in his “Paul Revere’s Ride.”
Henry Wadsworth Longfellow [Ed’s note: unnamed poems are “The Skeleton in Armor” and “The Wreck of the Hesperus.”] &lt;Horton&gt;
4

160153-)
This religion inspired a poem in which a character in “blue work overalls” chants “DROWN THEIR BUTTS/ CRUSH THEIR BUTTS.” That poem titled for Smokey the Bear is by Gary Snyder. In one novel, spiritual experiences like climbing the Matterhorn occur after Japhy Ryder introduces Ray Smith to this religion. A poem inspired by this religion set on “the tincan banana dock” claims that the title object was “never no locomotive!” This religion is central to Beat movement literature like “Sunflower Sutra” and The Dharma Bums. For 10 points, name this religion practiced by Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac in its Mahayana and Zen forms.
Buddhism [or Zen Buddhism; or Mahayana Buddhism]
6

160160-)
A novel by this author ends with the protagonist’s nephew Russell opening the “yellow, unprepossessing door” of the Bethel Independent Mission. The chauffeur Sparser runs over a little girl while the protagonist of that novel by this author is canoodling in the backseat with Hortense Briggs. A character created by this author leaves his job as a bellhop to work at a factory in Lycurgus, New York, where he meets a woman he later kills by smashing a camera on her head. Roberta Alden appears in this author’s novel about Clyde Griffiths. For 10 points, name this author of An American Tragedy.
Theodore Dreiser
6

160215-)
Eighteen of these objects symbolize eighteen stories in a 1951 collection partially named for some possessed by a Wisconsin carnival worker. Sarah Ruth believes one of these objects is sacrilegious in Flannery O’Connor’s story “Parker’s Back.” Alvaro drops a condom while discussing one of these objects with Serafina in a Tennessee Williams play titled for a Rose one of them. According to Ishmael, these “purplish yellow” objects can result from a white man falling among cannibals; Ishmael makes this observation after seeing that Queequeg’s body is covered in these objects. For 10 points, name these artworks that cover the body of Ray Bradbury’s Illustrated Man.
tattoos [accept illustrations before “Sarah Ruth” is read, prompt afterwards; accept specific descriptions of tattoos like The Rose Tattoo and tattoos of Jesus]
6

160241-)
A Henry Louis Gates book titled for the Trials of this poet discusses how Thomas Jefferson tried to undermine this poet’s reputation. This poet, who argued that anyone “may be refin’d, and join th’angelic train,” describes “a celestial choir enthron’d in realms of light” in a poem that praises “Columbia’s scenes of glorious toil.” This writer claimed that “Twas mercy brought me from my pagan land” in a poem that preceded a work dedicated to “His Excellency” George Washington. For 10 points, name this poet who wrote about her experience being taken to the United States as a slave in “On Being Brought from Africa to America.”
Phillis Wheatley
6

160244-)
Description acceptable. In a play set during this historical event, Ned Weeks pressures Felix Turner to write an article about this event for the New York Times. The nurse Belize treats people impacted by this historical event in a play that ends with the characters gathering around the Bethesda Fountain. Randy Shilts’ And The Band Played On is about this event, which, in another play, leads to the death of a man who is visited by Ethel Rosenberg’s ghost in his hospital room. In that play, Roy Cohn fears that his death during this disease outbreak will reveal his homosexuality. For 10 points, name this epidemic central to Tony Kushner’s Angels in America.
the AIDS epidemic [or acquired immunodeficiency syndrome; accept the AIDS crisis; accept HIV in the place of AIDS; accept any answer that mentions AIDS or HIV] (the play described in the first line is Larry Kramer’s The Normal Heart)
6

160254-)
A boy in this novel uses his grandmother’s cane to kill a rattlesnake, impressing Otto Fuchs. Though he lives with his conservative grandparents, the narrator of this novel parties at the Owl Club with Lena Lingard. The violin-playing father of this novel’s protagonist kills himself in a barn after a difficult winter; later in this novel, the protagonist is impregnated by Larry Donovan, who abandons her. Twenty years after the main events of the novel, its narrator visits Anton Cuzak’s family in Black Hawk, Nebraska. For 10 points, name this novel about Jim Burden’s experiences growing up with the title Czech immigrant, written by Willa Cather.
My Ántonia
6

160271-)
The protagonist of this novel is told to “ask for Wild Bob” if he’s ever in Cody, Wyoming. When a man in this novel asks “Why me?” his guard responds “Vy anybody?” This novel contains a drawing of a tombstone with the inscription “Everything was beautiful and nothing hurt.” Recurring motifs in this novel include a bird singing “poo-tee-weet” and the statement “so it goes.” The protagonist of this novel is imprisoned with Montana Wildhack in a Tralfamadorian zoo after surviving the firebombing of Dresden. For 10 points, Billy Pilgrim becomes “unstuck in time” in what Kurt Vonnegut novel?
Slaughterhouse-Five or The Children's Crusade: A Duty-Dance with Death
6

160299-)
After the protagonist of this play tells his wife he punched a man who called him a “walrus,” his wife calls him “the handsomest man in the world.” The protagonist of this play is told that “the jungle is dark, but full of diamonds” by a vision of his deceased brother, who the protagonist chose not to accompany to Alaska. A character in this play drops out of summer school after learning of his father’s affair with “The Woman,” and steals a pen from Bill Oliver during a job interview. Despite the efforts of his wife Linda, the protagonist of this play commits suicide to procure a $20,000 insurance payment for his son Biff. For 10 points, name this Arthur Miller play about Willy Loman.
Death of a Salesman
6

160325-)
This object isn’t blue, but it is taken instead of “gold” or “treasures,” for which a man has “no desire.” Chairs for “gentlemen” cover the hiding place of this object, which induces a “ringing” in one man’s ears. The “hellish tattoo” of this object haunts a man with “over-acuteness of the sense[s].” In a short story, a man commands “villains” to “tear up the planks” that hide this object. This object sounds like a “watch enveloped in cotton” after it is removed from a man with “the eye of a vulture” who is suffocated by the narrator of a short story. For 10 points, name this loudly beating object that titles an Edgar Allan Poe short story.
the old man’s heart [or “The Tell-Tale Heart”]
6

160345-)
The speaker of one of this man’s poems claims that “Earth’s the right place for love” since he doesn’t “know where it’s likely to go better.” That poem describes a boy “whose only play was what he found himself” because he lived “too far from town to play baseball.” In another poem by this man, the speaker commands “stay where you are until our backs are turned,” and notes how one man’s apple orchard will never “get across” to disturb his neighbor’s pines. This poet of “Birches” included the refrain “good fences make good neighbors” in his poem “Mending Wall.” For 10 points, name this poet of “The Road Not Taken.”
Robert Frost
6

160350-)
This novel ends with the protagonist stammering “Me? Me?” in response to her lover’s statement “you your own best thing.” In this novel dedicated to “sixty million and more,” Amy helps the protagonist give birth to a baby on the banks of the Ohio River. A man with a “tobacco tin” heart comes to visit this novel’s protagonist at her “spiteful” home on 124 Bluestone Road. Denver and Paul D try to help the protagonist of this novel come to terms with her memories of Sweet Home plantation. Sethe is haunted by the ghost of her dead slave daughter in, for 10 points, what Toni Morrison novel?
Beloved
6

160360-)
This author wrote a novel about Eve Frame’s disintegrating marriage to the radio actor “Iron Rimm” shortly after his own contentious divorce with Claire Bloom. Another novel by this author of I Married a Communist is framed as a conversation between the protagonist and his psychoanalyst Dr. Spielvogel. Many of this author’s works are set in and around his hometown of Newark, New Jersey and are narrated by his recurring character Nathan Zuckerman. The title character of this author’s first major novel recounts his sexual escapades, which feature a woman known as “The Monkey” and a piece of liver. For 10 points, name this author of Portnoy’s Complaint.
Philip Roth
6

160377-)
In one of this author’s plays, two men sing about a dog named Blue who “treed a possum in Noah’s Ark.” The protagonist of that play by this author recounts how his co-worker, Brownie, was fired for smuggling a watermelon under his coat. This author’s most famous play ends with a mentally handicapped man named Gabriel attempting to blow a trumpet. In that play by this author, the protagonist has an affair with Alberta and refuses to let his son Cory play football. This author’s play about the garbage truck driver Troy Maxson is the sixth work of his Pittsburgh Cycle. For 10 points, name this African-American playwright of Fences.
August Wilson
6

160391-)
This author’s name is used in place of the phrase “excuse me” in Derek Walcott’s Ti-Jean and his Brothers. This writer isn’t American, but his work inspired a play broken into the sections The Homecoming, The Hunted, and The Haunted. Christine poisons her Civil War general husband Ezra Mannon in that Eugene O’Neill work based on one of this author’s plays. Prometheus Bound is a sequel to one of his plays, and his work inspired the modern adaptations Mourning Becomes Electra and Jean Paul Sartre’s The Flies. During a fictional poetry contest in Aristophanes’s The Frogs, this playwright beats Euripides. For 10 points, name this Greek tragedian and playwright of the Oresteia.
Aeschylus
6

160409-)
A poem set in this city describes “parking spaces” that “luxuriate like civic sandpiles.” One of this city’s characteristic “marriages” is exemplified by Olive Chancellor’s relationship with Verena Tarrant in an 1886 novel. Another novel notes that the “forefathers” of this city chose to build a cemetery and a prison before anything else. A “savage servility slides by on grease” through this city, which “stands in a Sahara of snow” according to Robert Lowell’s poem “For the Union Dead.” This city, whose residents title a Henry James novel, is largely the setting of The Scarlet Letter. For 10 points, name this city, whose literary “Brahmins” often lectured at Harvard College.
Boston [accept The Bostonians; prompt on Cambridge]
6

160419-)
At the climax of The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen: Century, a thinly-veiled parody of this character morphs into an eye-covered giant and is stopped from destroying London by Mary Poppins. This character asks Ebony Dark’ness Dementia Raven Way to call him “Vampire” in the online novel My Immortal. In a Neil Cicierega video, this character and his namesake “Puppet Pals” search for the source of a “Mysterious Ticking Noise.” This character’s son, Albus Severus, uses a time-turner to prevent Cedric Diggory’s death in a play titled for this man and the Cursed Child. For 10 points, name this wizard protagonist of a J. K. Rowling series.
Harry Potter [accept either]
6

160428-)
A character in this novel states “I seed de beginnin, en now I sees de endin” after she is moved to tears by a sermon. A woman in this novel who smells like honeysuckle scolds her brother for kissing the “dirty girl” Natalie, even though she herself has “muddied her drawers.” While watching golfers on his thirty-third birthday, a character in this novel is told to stop “moaning” by his caretaker Luster. On June 2, 1910, a Harvard student in this novel jumps off a bridge while thinking about his sister Caddy. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Jason. Benjy and Quentin Compson, written by William Faulkner.
The Sound and the Fury
6

160442-)
After a visit to the theater, a woman in a story by this author wishes that her “cable car would never stop” and would “go on and on with her forever.” A woman created by this author who “knows the value of bargains” avoids the “morbid retrospection” of her neighbors and buys an expensive pair of kid gloves and stockings. Another of this author's characters observes the “delicious breath of rain” after hearing news from Josephine. A woman in a story by this author is shocked when she notices the similarities between a baby and a boy fanning him with peacock feathers, and in that same story, a character burns a letter from his mother and a willow cradle. A woman in a story by this author resolves to “live for herself” before she dies of shock when Brently Mallard comes home. For 10 points, name this author of “The Story of an Hour” and “Désirée's Baby.”
Kate Chopin [or Katherine O’Flaherty]  &lt;Literature American - Husar&gt;
7

160448-)
In the second couplet of his poem “Tonight,” Agha Shahid Ali quoted this author's lines “Fabrics of Cashmere” and “Me to adorn— How tell.” A poem by this author concludes with the lines “Finally, no Golden Fleece— / Jason— sham— too.” This poet described an entity that is “docile and omnipotent / at its own stable door” in one of her many riddle poems. This author described watching an entity “stop to feed itself at tanks” and “lick the valleys up” in a poem about a train. The speaker exclaims “Don't tell! They'd advertise— you know” after noting “Then there's a pair of us!” and laments “How dreary— to be— somebody!” in a poem that employs this poet's characteristic em-dashes and non-standard capitalization. For 10 points, name this American poet of “I like to see it lap the miles” and “I'm Nobody! Who are you?”
Emily Dickinson &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
7

160470-)
The narrator of this story asks the reader to “Forget the hashed metaphor” after saying “Oh, and the next two hours tripped by on rosy wings.” In this story, a character's howling “instigates the moral reflection that life is made up of sobs, sniffles, and smiles, with sniffles predominating.” This story states that one may view a “rapid sequence of longitudinal strips” to describe how a slender person can use the type of pier-glass found in an “$8 flat.” Its last paragraph says that the “uneventful chronicle of two unwise children” actually contains the tale of “two [who] were the wisest.” The depreciation of the jewels of the Queen of Sheba and the envy of King Solomon are invoked to establish the value of two items in this story. A man and wife purchase items to complement the other's prized possession after selling their own in--for 10 points--what story by O. Henry?
“The Gift Of The Magi” [or “Gifts of the Magi”]  &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
7

160483-)
Description acceptable. In the musical Assassins, John Wilkes Booth quotes a line spoken by this character when he convinces Lee Harvey Oswald to shoot John F. Kennedy. This character pleads “forgive me… I can't cry” at the beginning of a speech in which she does cry after realizing “I made the last payment on the house today… And there'll be nobody home.” This woman admits that her husband is not a “great man,” but she asserts “he's a human being, and a terrible thing is happening to him. So attention must be paid.” In the play in which she appears, this woman's son witnesses her husband cheating on her with an unnamed woman, leading him to drop out of summer school. This woman sobs “We're free… We're free…” in the scene “Requiem,” which portrays her husband's funeral. For 10 points, name this woman, the mother of Biff and Happy and wife of the protagonist of Death of a Salesman.
Linda Loman [accept Willy Loman's wife or Mrs. Loman; prompt on Loman]  &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
7

160486-)
The essay “The Face of Seung-Hui Cho” was published in a collection whose name parodies that of this book. That collection was written by Wesley Yang. On the advice of Jacob Schiff, six passages of this book that referred disparagingly to Jews were changed for later editions. This book includes a parable about two different men named John returning to their hometowns, and each chapter of this book opens with a sheet-music selection from spirituals it refers to as “sorrow songs”. One chapter of this book compares Atalanta's distraction by golden apples to Atlanta's pursuit of capital over learning. This essay collection discusses slave religion in “Of the Faith of the Fathers”. The concepts of “the veil” and “double consciousness” recur in this essay collection, which contains an essay attacking its author's rival, Booker T. Washington. For 10 points, name this essay collection by W. E. B. Du Bois.
The Souls of Black Folk [accept The Souls of Yellow Folk]  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160500-)
This item is considered a “pure signifier” in a lecture on “repetition automatism” that Barbara Johnson fused with another thinker's conclusion that this item's “proper place ... is the place of castration.” This object is replaced by another of the same type that references Propser Crebillon's Atrée et Thyeste. Lacan and Derrida feuded over the meaning of this object, which prompts a Prefect to order the legs of all the furniture in a hotel removed. To hide his eyes, a man wears green glasses when he attempts to take this object. The author wrote that his best tale of “ratiocination” is one in which this item is stolen back from Minister D after D reseals it and hides it in plain sight. For 10 points, name this epistle found by the central detective of the last C Auguste Dupin story by Edgar Poe.
the purloined letter [prompt on letter; prompt on putative synonyms such as epistle or piece of paper]  &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
7

160515-)
In his memoirs, one author described ending his friendship with this woman after hearing her say “Don't, please don't. I'll do anything” through a door and described this woman as looking “like a Roman emperor”. This woman claimed to have avoided a Harvard psychology exam by telling William James that she didn't feel like taking it. In the work in which that claim appears, this author describes her maid's hatred for Henri Matisse. In one work, this woman recounts hearing an auto mechanic describe his apprentice as part of a “lost generation”. In one work by this author, the narrator is described as “the wife of a genius” and describes assisting this author in typing her Cubist poetry manuscripts and having the motto “a rose is a rose is a rose” stitched into this author's pillowcases. For 10 points, name this author who wrote an “autobiography” narrated by her partner, Alice B. Toklas.
Gertrude Stein [the clues not drawn from The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas are from A Movable Feast]  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;  Bonuses
7

160520-)
This is the only character known to have appeared in Ameipsias' play Konnos, which beat a surviving play including this character at the Dionysia. While this character stares at the moon, a lizard disturbs this character by pooping in their mouth. At the end of a play, an old man stands on this character's burning house, mocking this character's claim to be 'traversing the air and contemplating the Sun'. Under this character's influence, a young man beats his father for celebrating too loudly. A man learns from this character after his son racks up debt buying horses, after this character enters the stage in a dangling basket. Public opinion against this man is suggested by a play in which he teaches Strepsiades at the Thinkery, which was claimed to have contributed to his execution in the Apology. Parodied in The Clouds, for 10 points, name this philosopher who taught Plato.
Socrates &lt;Literature European - Krol&gt;
7

160532-)
This person is said to have “scorned the ordering planet,” according to “Lines on” this person by Michael Hamburger. During an action involving this person, another poem states that “the edge of the sea” is “concerned with itself” as “the whole pageantry of the year was awake tingling.” That action undertaken by this person is deemed “not an important failure” in another poem. In that poem, the sun shines “as it had to on [this person's] white legs” while “dogs go on with their doggy life.” William Carlos Williams' poem about this figure is based on the same depiction that is interpreted in the second stanza of a poem which opens “About suffering they were never wrong, / The old Masters.” For 10 points, Auden's “Musée des Beaux Arts” describes the drowning of what mythological figure in a landscape painting by Brueghel?
Icarus &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
7

160543-)
In one novel, the detective Birdy Edwards infiltrates a secret society from this country. One character from this country writes “Rache” on the wall of the murdered Enoch Drebber to make the police think he is German. It's not India, but upon receiving a letter from a man from this country, the brother of the bicycle tire magnate John Openshaw shouts “my god, my sins have overtaken me”. The section “The Country of the Saints” explains why a man from this country, Jeff Hope, killed members of a religious group from this country who had tried to force his wife into a polygamous marriage. A terror group from this country sends a letter containing the title “Five Orange Pips” of another story warning an emigrant from this country of his impending death. For 10 points, name this country, whose history Sherlock Holmes investigates after a client receives a threat from the Ku Klux Klan.
United States of America [accept either or both underlined parts; accept USA; accept Deseret]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Myers&gt;
7

160556-)
In a novel titled for a concept from this religion, slaves are referred to as “shards” and Roger Bevins III has a vision of going on a sea voyage and becoming a pharmacist's common-law husband after killing himself due to his homosexuality. One novel about followers of this religion is titled for a statue of its founder left “in the attic” during a mass deportation. Another novel utilizes a concept from this religion to depict Abraham Lincoln's grief at the death of his son, Willie and won George Saunders a Pulitzer Prize. In a novel written by a follower of this religion, the character of Japhy Ryder is based on Gary Snyder, a poet who followed this religion. Hugh Conway discovers a utopian city inhabited by immortal followers of this religion in James Hilton's novel Lost Horizon. For 10 points, name this religion followed by the main characters of Jack Kerouac's The Dharma Bums.
Buddhism [accept Hinayana Buddhism, Zen Buddhism, Mahayana Buddhism, or Tibetan Buddhism] (the novels referenced are Julie Otsuka's The Buddha in the Attic and George Saunders' Lincoln in the Bardo)  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160562-)
One essay describes crying at a Michael Cimino film “for” this author and explores the role of the forest in homoerotic bonding in this author's work. That essay on this author describes him as “our worst, best, wickedest, and truest laureate.” Another essay on this author quotes and later attacks “Prof. Lounsbury” of Columbia and “Prof. Brander Matthews” of Yale. A Leslie Fiedler essay titled for this author describes him as a prototypical “good bad author.” Another essay accuses a novel by this author of “accomplish[ing] nothing and arriv[ing] in thin air” and lays out 18 rules of literature including “eschew surplussage” and “use the right word, not its second cousin”. This author commits 114 of the title violations in an essay by Mark Twain titled for this author's “literary offenses”. For 10 points, name this author whose “Leatherstocking Tales” included The Last of the Mohicans.
James Fenimore Cooper &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160571-)
One poem titled for one of these places describes people “taught in the school of patience to endure/ the life of anguish and the death of fire.” One poem named for one of these places ends “The Lord survives the rainbow of His will” and contains only one section with a separate title, “Our Lady of Walsingham.” One poem set in one of these places has its stanzas interspersed with couplets about leaves that “flying, plunge and expire.” In a poem set in one of these places where “an aged elm aspires,” “the children of the forest” no longer live there, but “the hunter still the deer pursues” and “reason's self shall bow the knee to shadows and delusions.” The most famous poem of Allen Tate is set in one of these places. A Robert Lowell poem describes a Quaker one of these places in Nantucket that housed veterans of the whaling industry. For 10 points, name these places, an Indian one of which is inhabited by ghosts in a Philip Freneau poem.
cemetery [accept graveyard, burying-ground, equivalents; accept ”The Jewish Cemetery at Newport”, ”The Indian Burying-Ground”, ”The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket”]  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160609-)
Description acceptable. In the musical Assassins, John Wilkes Booth quotes a line spoken by this character when he convinces Lee Harvey Oswald to shoot John F. Kennedy. This character pleads “forgive me… I can't cry” at the beginning of a speech in which she does cry after realizing “I made the last payment on the house today… And there'll be nobody home.” This woman admits that her husband is not a “great man,” but she asserts “he's a human being, and a terrible thing is happening to him. So attention must be paid.” In the play in which she appears, this woman's son witnesses her husband cheating on her with an unnamed woman, leading him to drop out of summer school. This woman sobs “We're free… We're free…” in the scene “Requiem,” which portrays her husband's funeral. For 10 points, name this woman, the mother of Biff and Happy and wife of the protagonist of Death of a Salesman.
Linda Loman [accept Willy Loman's wife or Mrs. Loman; prompt on Loman]  &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
7

160612-)
The essay “The Face of Seung-Hui Cho” was published in a collection whose name parodies that of this book. That collection was written by Wesley Yang. On the advice of Jacob Schiff, six passages of this book that referred disparagingly to Jews were changed for later editions. This book includes a parable about two different men named John returning to their hometowns, and each chapter of this book opens with a sheet-music selection from spirituals it refers to as “sorrow songs”. One chapter of this book compares Atalanta's distraction by golden apples to Atlanta's pursuit of capital over learning. This essay collection discusses slave religion in “Of the Faith of the Fathers”. The concepts of “the veil” and “double consciousness” recur in this essay collection, which contains an essay attacking its author's rival, Booker T. Washington. For 10 points, name this essay collection by W. E. B. Du Bois.
The Souls of Black Folk [accept The Souls of Yellow Folk]  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160626-)
This item is considered a “pure signifier” in a lecture on “repetition automatism” that Barbara Johnson fused with another thinker's conclusion that this item's “proper place ... is the place of castration.” This object is replaced by another of the same type that references Propser Crebillon's Atrée et Thyeste. Lacan and Derrida feuded over the meaning of this object, which prompts a Prefect to order the legs of all the furniture in a hotel removed. To hide his eyes, a man wears green glasses when he attempts to take this object. The author wrote that his best tale of “ratiocination” is one in which this item is stolen back from Minister D after D reseals it and hides it in plain sight. For 10 points, name this epistle found by the central detective of the last C Auguste Dupin story by Edgar Poe.
the purloined letter [prompt on letter; prompt on putative synonyms such as epistle or piece of paper]  &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
7

160641-)
In his memoirs, one author described ending his friendship with this woman after hearing her say “Don't, please don't. I'll do anything” through a door and described this woman as looking “like a Roman emperor”. This woman claimed to have avoided a Harvard psychology exam by telling William James that she didn't feel like taking it. In the work in which that claim appears, this author describes her maid's hatred for Henri Matisse. In one work, this woman recounts hearing an auto mechanic describe his apprentice as part of a “lost generation”. In one work by this author, the narrator is described as “the wife of a genius” and describes assisting this author in typing her Cubist poetry manuscripts and having the motto “a rose is a rose is a rose” stitched into this author's pillowcases. For 10 points, name this author who wrote an “autobiography” narrated by her partner, Alice B. Toklas.
Gertrude Stein [the clues not drawn from The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas are from A Movable Feast]  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;  Bonuses
7

160646-)
This is the only character known to have appeared in Ameipsias' play Konnos, which beat a surviving play including this character at the Dionysia. While this character stares at the moon, a lizard disturbs this character by pooping in their mouth. At the end of a play, an old man stands on this character's burning house, mocking this character's claim to be 'traversing the air and contemplating the Sun'. Under this character's influence, a young man beats his father for celebrating too loudly. A man learns from this character after his son racks up debt buying horses, after this character enters the stage in a dangling basket. Public opinion against this man is suggested by a play in which he teaches Strepsiades at the Thinkery, which was claimed to have contributed to his execution in the Apology. Parodied in The Clouds, for 10 points, name this philosopher who taught Plato.
Socrates &lt;Literature European - Krol&gt;
7

160658-)
This person is said to have “scorned the ordering planet,” according to “Lines on” this person by Michael Hamburger. During an action involving this person, another poem states that “the edge of the sea” is “concerned with itself” as “the whole pageantry of the year was awake tingling.” That action undertaken by this person is deemed “not an important failure” in another poem. In that poem, the sun shines “as it had to on [this person's] white legs” while “dogs go on with their doggy life.” William Carlos Williams' poem about this figure is based on the same depiction that is interpreted in the second stanza of a poem which opens “About suffering they were never wrong, / The old Masters.” For 10 points, Auden's “Musée des Beaux Arts” describes the drowning of what mythological figure in a landscape painting by Brueghel?
Icarus &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
7

160682-)
In a novel titled for a concept from this religion, slaves are referred to as “shards” and Roger Bevins III has a vision of going on a sea voyage and becoming a pharmacist's common-law husband after killing himself due to his homosexuality. One novel about followers of this religion is titled for a statue of its founder left “in the attic” during a mass deportation. Another novel utilizes a concept from this religion to depict Abraham Lincoln's grief at the death of his son, Willie and won George Saunders a Pulitzer Prize. In a novel written by a follower of this religion, the character of Japhy Ryder is based on Gary Snyder, a poet who followed this religion. Hugh Conway discovers a utopian city inhabited by immortal followers of this religion in James Hilton's novel Lost Horizon. For 10 points, name this religion followed by the main characters of Jack Kerouac's The Dharma Bums.
Buddhism [accept Hinayana Buddhism, Zen Buddhism, Mahayana Buddhism, or Tibetan Buddhism] (the novels referenced are Julie Otsuka's The Buddha in the Attic and George Saunders' Lincoln in the Bardo)  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160688-)
One essay describes crying at a Michael Cimino film “for” this author and explores the role of the forest in homoerotic bonding in this author's work. That essay on this author describes him as “our worst, best, wickedest, and truest laureate.” Another essay on this author quotes and later attacks “Prof. Lounsbury” of Columbia and “Prof. Brander Matthews” of Yale. A Leslie Fiedler essay titled for this author describes him as a prototypical “good bad author.” Another essay accuses a novel by this author of “accomplish[ing] nothing and arriv[ing] in thin air” and lays out 18 rules of literature including “eschew surplussage” and “use the right word, not its second cousin”. This author commits 114 of the title violations in an essay by Mark Twain titled for this author's “literary offenses”. For 10 points, name this author whose “Leatherstocking Tales” included The Last of the Mohicans.
James Fenimore Cooper &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160697-)
One poem titled for one of these places describes people “taught in the school of patience to endure/ the life of anguish and the death of fire.” One poem named for one of these places ends “The Lord survives the rainbow of His will” and contains only one section with a separate title, “Our Lady of Walsingham.” One poem set in one of these places has its stanzas interspersed with couplets about leaves that “flying, plunge and expire.” In a poem set in one of these places where “an aged elm aspires,” “the children of the forest” no longer live there, but “the hunter still the deer pursues” and “reason's self shall bow the knee to shadows and delusions.” The most famous poem of Allen Tate is set in one of these places. A Robert Lowell poem describes a Quaker one of these places in Nantucket that housed veterans of the whaling industry. For 10 points, name these places, an Indian one of which is inhabited by ghosts in a Philip Freneau poem.
cemetery [accept graveyard, burying-ground, equivalents; accept ”The Jewish Cemetery at Newport”, ”The Indian Burying-Ground”, ”The Quaker Graveyard in Nantucket”]  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160709-)
This author wrote a short story in which a thief returns a dropped parcel of food and then breaks into a house to steal jewelry only to find his mother there. In one of this author's novels, a woman suspects her husband of having an affair with Nancy, who then escapes to Canada. This author of “A Burglar's Christmas” also wrote a short story in which Paul steals $1000 from a Pittsburgh bank to fulfill his dream of being prosperous. This author of Sapphira and the Slave Girl and “Paul's Case” also wrote a work in which Thea Kronberg rises to opera stardom. Carl Linstrum marries Alexandra Bergson after the death of Emil in this author's most famous work. For 10 points, name this author who wrote The Song of the Lark and O Pioneers! as part of the Great Plains trilogy.
Willa Cather &lt;Literature American - Santanam&gt;
7

160742-)
In one elegy, a veteran of this war remembers the “homey smell of fall pouring into the blood” in a forest in Oregon before dying in an explosion. “The Body of an American” was written about that veteran of this war. Richard Savage impregnates and abandons a character known only as “daughter” in a novel named for the last year of this war. In the novel A Fable, Jesus is reincarnated as a soldier in this war. Another veteran of this war communicates using Morse code after having his face and limbs blown off. After a military defeat in this war, one character escapes to Switzerland in a rowboat with Catherine Barkley. Dalton Trumbo's Johnny Got his Gun and John Dos Passos's Three Soldiers are set during this war. In another novel, Jake Barnes received the wound that rendered him impotent in this war. For 10 points, name this war, during which Hemingway set A Farewell to Arms.
World War I [Accept the Great War, First World War] (The lead-in is from the closing chapter of 1919)  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160763-)
One 1859 play set in one of these places had its original British ending changed for American audiences because it depicted a happy interracial marriage. That play climaxes with the Indian Wahnotee shooting the corrupt owner of one of these places and is titled for the mixed-race girl Zoe. That play set in one of these places is the most famous work of Dion Boucicault. In another play, the firm of Ambler &amp; Ambler confiscates one of these places from its original owners. In one play, Oscar marries Birdie to acquire one of these places, and her desire to possess a mill built in one of these locations leads Regina Giddens to allow Horace to die of a heart attack. The loss of one of these places, Belle Reve, leads Blanche DuBois to move to New Orleans in A Streetcar Named Desire. For 10 points, name these places, one of which is used to grow cotton in The Little Foxes.
plantations [prompt on house or similar answers with “in what kind of place?”]  &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160774-)
One character in this play decides to go to medical school after seeing a boy get his head split open in a sledding accident. A play by Bruce Norris chronicles the immediate aftermath of this play's action. A character in this play who carries a newspaper article about a bombing with her, Wilhelmina Johnson, was cut from most performances. One character in this play gives his grandmother a too-large gardening hat that she subsequently wears anyway. A nickname meaning “one for whom bread is not enough” is given to one character in this play by her boyfriend. One character in this play shouts “it expresses me!” about a plant that her granddaughter, Beneatha, was about to discard. In this play, the Clybourne Park Improvement Association attempts to prevent the Younger family from moving into their neighborhood. For 10 points, name this most famous play of Lorraine Hansberry.
A Raisin in the Sun &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160791-)
Wen Chu-an translated many works from this literary movement into Chinese. An author from this movement wrote “I'm a traveller in a strange country / China and I've been to many cities” in his poem “Reading Bai Juyi.” A poet from this movement wrote “Let's go / Come on / Let's go / Empty our pockets” at the beginning of one poem. Shig Murao was arrested after selling a copy of a poem from this movement with an obscene description of “saintly motorcyclists.” A poem from this movement mentions the “harlequin speech of suicide” in describing a group “who threw potato salad at CCNY lecturers on Dadaism.” That poem from this movement describes a group that is “starving hysterical naked,” and it begins “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.” For 10 points, name this movement of Lawrence Ferlinghetti and Allen Ginsberg.
Beat generation [or beatniks]  &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
7

160806-)
This author wrote “We have four dead Romans / and five Carthaginians” in his poem “The Quarrel.” The speaker's heart “cries its melancholy at not seeing you” in a sonnet by this author “in which the poet sends his beloved a dove.” This poet wrote “I want to sleep the sleep of the dark apples” in a poem “of the Dark Death,” which he collected alongside several casidas and gacelas in his Arabic-inspired Diván del Tamarit. This poet included a poem in which he “talks on the telephone with his beloved” in his Sonnets of Dark Love. In a poem by this author, the speaker declares “I will not see it!” in its section “The Spilled Blood.” That poem lists “arsenic bells and smoke” and a “ring covered with iodine” in a description of an event that occurred “at five in the afternoon.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Lament for the Death of a Bullfighter” who was killed by fascists during the Spanish Civil War.
Federico Garcia Lorca [prompt on Garcia]  &lt;Literature European - French&gt;
7

160809-)
At the end of one story by this author, the protagonist makes lemonade for his grandfather, who annoyed Carl by repeating the same stories about crossing the plains. In this author's Nobel Prize lecture, he declared that he would “roar like a lion” in defense of literature. A mare named Nellie is killed during a difficult labor in one story by this author. That story is found in a collection by this author that centers on a horse named Gabilan that Billy Buck fails to save from strangles. The grocer Lee Chong and the elderly Mack live on the title road of another novel by this author. The twins Cal and Aron are born to Cathy Ames and Adam Trask in one novel by this author. For 10 points, name this author of The Red Pony, who wrote novels about California including Cannery Row and East of Eden.
John Steinbeck &lt;Literature American - Kothari&gt;  Bonuses
7

160814-)
In an article published shortly after this author's death, Erica Jong recalled this poet writing her a note saying “Yes! Yes! We'll live!” This poet wrote “the wind falls in like stones / from the whitehearted water” in a poem dedicated to her mother and her father. In another poem, this author wrote “the African says: / This is the tale which I have told.” A poem by this author notes that “a woman like that is not a woman, quite” and opens “I have gone out a possessed witch.” The first poem of a collection by this author observes that “God was there like an island” and repeatedly states “I grew, I grew” and “I am rowing, I am rowing.” This author of “The Truth the Dead Know” included “Her Kind” in her collection To Bedlam and Part Way Back. For 10 points, name this Confessional poet of The Awful Rowing Towards God, who, like her friend Sylvia Plath, killed herself with carbon monoxide.
Anne Sexton &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
7

160817-)
The gay Other Fellow is imprisoned with the title character of one play set in this city, which features the song “The Auld Triangle.” In a play set in this city, a character claims to be going butterfly-catching, but leaves a bag of bombs behind in his apartment. One character in that play set in this city owns a protestant bible, which does not protect him from a raid by protestant police who drink all his liquor. In another play, the tubercular Mollser lives in a tenement in this city with the socialist Fluther Good. One character in another play set in this city frequently uses the adjective “darlin” and agrees with his drinking buddy that the world is “in a terrible state of chassis.” Joxer Daly drinks with Captain Jack Boyle in the play Juno and the Paycock, which is set in this city. For 10 points, name this city, the setting of a trilogy of plays by Sean O'Casey.
Dublin, Ireland  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Myers&gt;
7

160835-)
This novel was originally intended to end with the protagonist discovering that “the world was a world for him,” but its author then added a man's dream of “an existence of soft and eternal peace” and the scene of a “golden ray of sun” shining through “leaden rain clouds.” This novel opens with the image of “the cold pass[ing] reluctantly from the earth” as “retiring fogs” reveal a group of men “stretched across the hills.” The protagonist of this novel watches a squirrel run away after he throws a pine cone at it, leading him to conclude that his decision to retreat in battle was the right one. The protagonist of this novel becomes a flag-bearer after the death of the Christ-like figure Jim Conklin. The title of this novel refers to a mark that the protagonist, Henry Fleming, wants to receive to emulate his injured comrades. For 10 points, name this Civil War novel by Stephen Crane.
The Red Badge of Courage &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
7

160849-)
One author who played this sport attributed his success to feeling “best physically enwebbed in sharp angels, acute bisections, shaved corners” despite being “pretty untalented.” At the end of that essay, Antitoi detaches a retina after being pushed into a fence by the wind while practicing this sport. After winning a match of this sport, one character nicknamed “The Darkness” has his head frozen to a window and his bed bolted to the ceiling. The essay “Derivative Sport in Tornado Alley” describes an author's experience playing this sport in the Midwest. John “No Relation” Wayne and Ortho Stice both play this sport at an academy founded by a man who creates a film so entertaining that nobody can stop watching, James Incandenza. For 10 points, name this sport played by Hal Incandenza at the Enfield Academy, the subject of David Foster Wallace's essay “Federer Both Flesh and Not.”
tennis &lt;Literature American - Tong&gt;
7

160860-)
A novel which is emphatically 'dedicated to nobody' opens with the protagonist learning from a drunk that one of these places would hire 'damned near anybody'. One of these places titles the first novel about Henry Chinaski by Charles Bukowski. To 'bring the Vietnam War home', Merry Levov blows up one of these places in Old Rimrock in American Pastoral. In a story titled for one of these places, the protagonist's uncle thinks the protagonist insulted him for wearing a pink kimono and Mr Whittaker claims that Shirley-T wasn't adopted. In that story, Stella-Rondo turns the protagonist's family against her, causing her to move to one of these places in the town of China Grove, Mississippi. For 10 points, that Eudora Welty story is titled 'Why I Live at' one of which places, where the protagonist organises the town's mail?
post offices [accept POs or obvious synonyms]  &lt;Literature American - Krol&gt;
7

160874-)
In this novel, a woman tells her daughter not to listen to a woman who bullied her since “She is like this crab… Always walking sideways, moving crooked.” The author of this novel recalled knowing she had “succeeded where it counted” after her mother read it and gave the verdict: “So easy to read.” In this novel, a girl mockingly asserts “You aren't a genius like me” after another girl's disastrous piano recital, which is only enjoyed by her deaf teacher Mr. Chong. This novel opens with three “Aunties” telling the protagonist that they made contact with her lost half-sisters, who her mother was forced to abandon while escaping from Kweilin on foot. In this novel, the St. Clairs, the Hsus, the Jongs, and the Woos regularly meet and play mah jong. For 10 points, name this novel of sixteen stories about four Chinese immigrant mothers and their daughters, by Amy Tan.
The Joy Luck Club &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
7

160894-)
In a novel by this author, Mangogul has a dream in which Temple of the System-Builders in the land of Hypothesis is destroyed by a giant named Experience. In that novel by this author, a genie presents a sultan with a ring that can make women's genitals talk about their sexual experiences. In another novel by this author, the title character tells his master the story of Madame de la Pommeraye, who tricks the Marquis des Arcis into falling in love with a prostitute. The merits of French and Italian music are debated in a novel by this author, which is framed as a dialogue in the Café de la Regénce with the eccentric relative of a composer. In a novel by this author of The Indiscreet Jewels and Rameau's Nephew, a valet believes the future is written on a Great Scroll in the sky. For 10 points, name this author of Jacques the Fatalist, who worked with Jean D'Alembert to edit the Encyclopédie.
Denis Diderot &lt;Literature European - Kothari&gt;
7

160908-)
W. S. Merwin described “the love of one woman” and “the shamelessness of men” in a poem titled for “the Anniversary” of one of these events. The accordion-format book Nox was written by Anne Carson in reaction to one of these events. In a poem titled for one of these events, the speaker “has a hamburger and a malted and buy[s] / an ugly NEW WORLD WRITING.” That poem concludes “everyone and I stopped breathing” after “she whispered a song along the keyboard / to Mal Waldron” and is by Frank O'Hara. In another poem, one of these events is described as “full of Flowers” after twenty-eight lines that all begin “with your eyes.” That poem begins “Strange now to think of you… while I walk on the sunny pavement of Greenwich Village” and is dedicated to the poet's mother Naomi. For 10 points, name these events, one of which inspired Allen Ginsberg's “Kaddish.”
death [accept more specific answers such as my death, a brother's death, a mother’s death, Naomi Ginsberg’s death, “The Day Lady Died”, etc.]  &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
7

160911-)
In one story by this author, the narrator is described throughout as a “shrewd youth” and threatens to beat a man with his cudgel unless he tells him the title person's location. In another story by this author, books by Plato, Confucius, and “various Hindoo sages” are thrown into a swamp as a foundation for a bridge that is crossed by the narrator and Mr. Smooth-it-away. Robin boos an elderly relative while he is being tarred and feathered in one story by this author. The protagonist goes on a night journey with a man in the likeness of the narrator's grandfather, who had whipped a Quaker woman, in one story by this author of “My Kinsman, Major Molineux” and “The Celestial Railroad”. This author wrote a story in which “no hopeful verse” is engraved on a man's tombstone after Deacon Gookin and Goody Cloyse go with him and his wife, Faith, into a satanic initiation ceremony. For 10 points, name this author of “Young Goodman Brown”.
Nathaniel Hawthorne &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160921-)
This play's opening description of a “small bookcase with a picture of Shakespeare above it containing ... poetry by Swinburne” prefaces a scene near its end in which a character recites verses from Swinburne's “A Leave-Taking” with a “bitter sadness.” McGuire defrauds the central character of this play into making bad real estate investments. One character in this play fills part of a whiskey bottle with water after drinking it illicitly and quotes an Ernest Dowson poem to a prostitute. A foghorn blows at seemingly random intervals throughout this play, in which the tubercular Edmund quarrels with his miserly father over being sent to a state-owned sanitarium. Mary goes downstairs and plays a piano in her wedding dress after suffering a relapse of her morphine addiction in this play. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical play about the Tyrone Family, written by Eugene O'Neill.
Long Day's Journey Into Night &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160940-)
In a deleted ending to a story by this author, one of his characters says that he wants to write the way that Cezanne painted. Henry Louis Gates is a proponent of the “wound theory” of this author's stylistic choices. A sentence by this author that starts with “I said, 'Who killed him?'“ and contains many “and's” is sometimes used to explain poly·syn·deton. That sentence is drawn from his “After the Storm”. This author claimed to have deleted the hanging at the end of “Out of Season” to demonstrate his “theory of omission.” He explained that theory by referring to an object that is only one-eighth above water. This author likely never said to “write drunk, edit sober” and probably didn't write “For sale: baby shoes, never worn.” For 10 points, name this minimalist American developer of the “iceberg theory” who wrote the Nick Adams stories.
Ernest Miller Hemingway &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
7

160943-)
In one poem by this author, a man exclaims “if only he had been a woman!” about a companion who dies of measles and had “a pretty body”. That man mentions having “fifty-two/ miserable, small volcanoes I could climb”. “Some realms I owned, two rivers, a continent” are mentioned in another poem by this author, which also contains the parenthetical command “Write It!” This author included that poem, as well as “Crusoe in England”, in Geography III (three). A certain action is repeatedly proclaimed not to be a “disaster” in a 19-line piece by this poet which advises the reader to “accept the fluster” of misplaced door keys. For 10 points, name this American poet who asserted that “the art of losing isn't hard to master” in her villanelle “One Art.”
Elizabeth Bishop &lt;Literature American - Smith&gt;
7

160962-)
One character in this novel improvises a song while doing chores that resolves with the line “love that woman till you go stone blind”. Another character in this novel smashes her dog's face with a hammer to correct an injury that dog suffered. A third character in this novel pursues a love affair with the “thirty-mile woman,” then laughs as he is being executed after she dies. One character in this novel repeats “it was my name in the dark” when asked about the origin of her name and is seen as a daughter by a character with a scar shaped like a chokecherry tree. In this novel, a spirit causes Howard and Buglar to flee a house at 124 Bluestone Road. The sadistic Schoolteacher tortures slaves including Sixo, Halle, and Paul D in this novel, which is dedicated to “sixty million and more”. For 10 points, name this novel in which Sethe kills her child rather than see her recaptured by slavers, the most famous work of Toni Morrison.
Beloved &lt;Literature American - Myers&gt;
7

160980-)
An Amiri Baraka poem sometimes titled for a person with this occupation writes “Those who dug Lester Young would understand…” before asking a holder of this position “Wha's happenin…?” A poem addressed to a person with occupation states “you are clever, you are cultured, you oppose Tolstoy” and “You are a proud and strong exemplar of your race.” In another poem, a person with this occupation “is among us:—as in times before!” since he “cannot sleep upon his hillside now.” A person with this occupation is told that he is “missing one thing: God!” and is compared to an “Alexander-Nebuchadnezzar” in a poem by Rubén Darío. A poem memorializing a person with this occupation writes that its subject is “fallen cold and dead.” For 10 points, name this position held by the subjects of the poems “To Roosevelt” and “Abraham Lincoln Walks at Midnight.”
President of the United States [accept prez; also accept Barack Obama, Theodore Roosevelt, or Abraham Lincoln, prompt on politician]  &lt;Literature American - French&gt;
7

160988-)
After a poorly-received staging of one of this author's poems, Akakia Viala and Nicolas Bataille created a forgery of a lost poem by this author as a hoax. One of this author's characters sees “all the world's riches burned like a billion thunderbolts” after a voice tells him: “Weakness or strength: Those are your options, so strength it is.” That character describes placing “Beauty on my knee” and finding her “bitter” and, in the section “Alchemy of the Word,” lists the pairings “Black A, white E, red I, blue O, green U.” A poem beginning “a while back, if I remember correctly, my life was a party” describes this author's tumultuous relationship with a poet who shot him. The narrator describes itself as “indifferent to all crews” and “no longer... guided by haulers” in this author's poem “The Drunken Boat.” For 10 points, name this author who described his relationship with Paul Verlaine in “A Season In Hell”.
Arthur Rimbaud [or Jean Nicolas Arthur Rimbaud]  &lt;Literature European - Morrison&gt;
7

161005-)
A character in this novel tells the story of how “possum hunters” found the bones of a “bluegum preacher” who was eaten by his children. A “woman’s single soprano” repeats the phrase “yes, Jesus!” during a sermon in this novel that causes another character to cry “in the annealment and the blood of the remembered Lamb.” The word “eye” is replaced with a drawing of an eye at one point in this novel, in which a man is given a gift described as a “mausoleum of all hope and desire” and befriends an (*) Italian immigrant girl known only as “sister.” A girl in this novel accidentally exposes the “muddy bottom of her drawers” and is consequently associated with the smell of trees by her mentally-challenged brother Benjy. The Harvard student Quentin drowns himself in the Charles River in—for 10 points—what William Faulkner novel about the Compson family?
The Sound and the Fury &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161033-)
One of this author’s characters makes up an excuse involving a cat, and then has to claim that cats are “superstitious” to explain why there are none in the house. That character created by this author says “I know what stillness is” after commenting how the protagonist used to sing and now lives in an empty house. Two of this author’s characters are mocked for paying attention to (*) “kitchen stuff” like broken preserves jars, and for wondering if the protagonist was going to knot or quilt some pieces of fabric. In that play by this author, Mrs. Hale and Mrs. Peters hide the canary that John Wright strangled, which had in turn prompted Minnie to strangle him. For 10 points, name this co-founder of the Provincetown Players who fictionalized the life of Emily Dickinson in Alison’s House and also wrote Trifles.
Susan (Keating) Glaspell &lt;JR&gt;
8

161046-)
In this decade, Tsuguharu Foujita helped write a memoir later republished as The Education of a Young Model. During this decade, Paul Poiret went out of fashion and lost his business. The avant-garde Ballets Suédois were both founded and disbanded in this decade. Alice Prin took the nickname “Kiki de Montparnasse” during this decade, in which Paris hosted its most recent Olympics. A Revue Nègre from this decade included an infamous (*) “danse sauvage.” The Little Black Dress was invented during this decade. An Exposition in this decade gave rise to the name “Art Deco.” Josephine Baker first performed her “banana skirt” dance in this decade, which is recounted in the memoir A Moveable Feast. The Belle Époque preceded—for 10 points—what decade also called the Années Folles and the Jazz Age?
1920s [accept Années Folles until mentioned] &lt;JR&gt;
8

161058-)
In this novel’s final chapter, the protagonist dreams about being given a coconut cake by his cook Mrs. Candy before being shaken awake and riding off through the woods. That chapter ends by stating that someone like this novel’s protagonist “can never die.” In this novel, Mary Greenhill avenges her husband’s death by crashing her plane into another plane that’s carrying Effingham Swan. The epigraphs in this novel are from a fictional book written by the antagonist called Zero Hour. In this novel, the protagonist’s complete set of Dickens is burnt by his former servant Shad Ledue, and the (*) Minute Men take over the Fort Beulah Informer in the name of Corpoism. The journalist Doremus Jessup appears in this novel, which re-entered bestseller lists after the 2016 U.S. presidential election. Buzz Windrip transforms the United States into a dictatorship in—for 10 points—what novel by Sinclair Lewis?
It Can’t Happen Here &lt;DS&gt;   Pre-ICT and Nationals Open/Minnesota Open 2019 (PIANO/MO): “What about bad subject matter? Or a bad title drop, even? That could kill a tournament pretty good.” Written and edited by Jacob Reed, Adam Silverman, Sam Bailey, Michael Borecki, Stephen Eltinge, Adam S. Fine, Jason Golfinos, Matt Jackson, Wonyoung Jang, Michael Kearney, Moses Kitakule, Shan Kothari, Chloe Levine, John Marvin, and Derek So, with Joey Goldman and Will Holub-Moorman.  Packet 11 Bonuses
8

161072-)
This author wrote an infamous review attacking another author’s The Beet Queen for abandoning the cause of racial equality. A story by this author follows a character who accidentally signs her children over to some doctors because she is proud she can write her name, and ends with her singing the title “Lullaby”. In a novel by this author, a mountain lion distracts some men who catch the protagonist cutting through an electric fence to steal back Uncle Josiah’s cattle. The protagonist of that novel by this author has visions of his cousin (*) Rocky dying during the Bataan Death March. Ken and Leon try to arrange a traditional funeral for their grandfather in this author’s story “The Man to Send Rain Clouds.” This author of Storyteller wrote a novel about World War II veteran Tayo, who returns to the pueblo to recover from PTSD. For 10 points—what Native American author wrote Ceremony?
Leslie Marmon Silko &lt;DS&gt;
8

161083-)
The title character of a play set in this state sees his “scar in the window of the phone booth” before shooting Pernell for calling him “champ.” This state, which is the setting of a play about an ex-convict who sells stolen refrigerators, is also the setting of a play in which a bartender warns that “you could wake up tomorrow and all your jobs are in Mexico.” Lynn Nottage’s play Sweat is set in this state, as is a play in which a man sings about a “good old dog” named (*) Blue and boasts about his fight with Death to Bono. It’s the setting of a play in which the victims of a boxcar fire are said to have become the Ghosts of the Yellow Dog by Doaker. King Hedley II is set in this state, as is a play in which Boy Willie is accused of killing Sutter by Berniece, who insists on keeping the title instrument. The Piano Lesson and Fences are set in—for 10 points—what state, the setting of a 10-play cycle by August Wilson?
Pennsylvania (The Wilson cycle is the Pittsburgh Cycle.) &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161102-)
This concept is obsessed over by “anxious worried women” in a poem that claims “We cannot think of a [this concept] that is oceanless.” In another poem, the “aspect” of this concept is said to make love “Caught in the form of limitation / Between un-being and being.” That poem claims that discussing this concept makes “Words strain, / Crack and sometimes break, under the burden.” This concept and “the bell” are said to have “buried the day” in a poem that calls this thing (*) “unredeemable.” Another poem’s speaker claims to have enough of it to “turn back and descend the stair, / With a bald spot in the middle of my hair.” At the opening of “Burnt Norton,” Eliot declares that this concept “present” and “past” are “both perhaps, present” in “[it] future.” Prufrock claims to have enough of—for 10 points—what thing “for a hundred visions and revisions, / Before the taking of a toast and tea”?
time &lt;JR&gt;
8

161133-)
In a story by an author with this first name, the protagonist begins to hate “Chanel and furs and good food” after her one night stand demands that she take a bath. Another author with this first name ended a story with the protagonist sitting in her parents’ basement between boxes of Barbies, thinking “the sensation of being outside yourself” “isn’t such a bad feeling at all.” An author with this first name wrote about Meg’s night with Mr. Breen in “The Man in the Brooks Brothers Shirt”, a story in The Company She Keeps. An author with this first name wrote Because She Wanted To, as well as a story about the (*) typist Debby, who is aroused by her boss spanking her. The story “Secretary” appears in Bad Behavior, by an author with this first name and surname Gaitskill. For 10 points, give the first name of Edmund Wilson’s wife, who wrote about Kay Strong and her friends from Vassar in The Group.
Mary [accept Mary Gaitskill or Mary McCarthy] &lt;DS&gt;
8

161150-)
Description acceptable. A 1990 book claims a relation between this practice and decorated initials, citing the works of Hugh of St. Victor, who described a particularly complicated version of this practice in one of his treatises on Noah’s ark. This practice was held to be the medieval equivalent of “creativity” or “imagination” in a book by Mary Carruthers. A version of this practice was supposedly discovered after a banquet hall collapsed by Simonides of Ceos. Jonathan Spence used a technique from this practice to structure his biography of (*) Matteo Ricci. Frances Yates’s book on The Art of this practice explains its context between elocutio and delivery as one of the five canons of rhetoric. Grotesque images were imagined in a familiar location to create a “palace” used in this practice. For 10 points, name this practice that orators used to deliver their speeches without reading.
memory [or mnemotechnics; accept ars memorativa or ars memoriae; accept mnemonics; accept any answer describing memorization or similar; accept The Art of Memory or The Book of Memory or The Memory Palace of Matteo Ricci] &lt;JR&gt;
8

161157-)
A novel set just before and during one of these events begins with the pitbull China giving birth to a litter. The protagonist imagines herself as Medea and other mythological heroines in a 2011 novel set before one of these events. Army Specialist Nathan Levine works on the island of Creole after one of these events in the first published short story by Thomas Pynchon. The teenage girl Esch prepares for one of these events in Jesmyn Ward’s (*) Salvage the Bones. During one of these events, the protagonist of another novel grabs a piece of roofing and then is forced to hold onto a cow’s tail. Near the end of Their Eyes Were Watching God, Tea Cake contracts rabies during one of these events. One of these events drives the protagonist into the title whirlpool of “A Descent Into the Maelstrom.” For 10 points, name these tropical storms.
hurricanes [prompt on storms or cyclones; accept tropical storms, tropical cyclones, or typhoons; prompt on floods by asking “What caused the flood?”] &lt;JR&gt;
8

161161-)
A drunkard in one of this author’s plays asks, “Haven’t you lived in the South long enough to know that nothing is ever anybody’s fault?” and ironically insists that “only drunkards borrow other people’s drinks.” In another of this author’s plays, a woman muses “In some way I’ve ruined your life. I’ve ruined my own” before shooting herself. Ned Crossman is told “Most of us lie to ourselves, darling, most of us” after rejecting a marriage proposal from (*) Constance Tuckerman at the end of this author’s play The Autumn Garden. This author wrote a play that begins with Peggy Rogers reciting the “quality of mercy” speech from The Merchant of Venice, before Rosalie Wells is blackmailed by Mary Tilford into accusing the schoolteachers Karen Wright and Martha Dobie of having a lesbian relationship. For 10 points, name this American author of The Children’s Hour.
Lillian (Florence) Hellman &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161180-)
At the end of a story by this author, the narrator says that he considers another man’s confusion to be “quite my revenge,” following a disappointing conversation with Drayton Deane. After writing an article in The Middle, one of this author’s narrators is told that he’s missed the “little point.” The Venetian lawyer Pochintesta writes “beautiful poems” in one work by this author that begins with the narrator remarking, “I had taken Mrs. Prest into my confidence.” The narrator of a story by this author writes a review of Hugh (*) Vereker’s most recent novel and tries to become close with Gwendolen after her husband Corvick dies. Miss Tita reveals that she burned the title objects of a novella by this author after the narrator tries to steal them from Juliana’s desk. For 10 points, name this author who included “The Figure in the Carpet” and The Aspern Papers in the New York Edition.
Henry James &lt;JM&gt;
8

161192-)
An allusion to this play titles an influential 1969 paper in The Lancet by Russell Barton and J.A. Whitehead. The protagonist of this play describes herself as “without a shred of pity—without a shred of regret—watching you go with glory in my heart!” Not including musicals, this play holds the Broadway record for longest-running show from outside the United States. A character in this play makes his servants Nancy and Elizabeth kiss a Bible and swear they haven’t removed a picture from his wall. Inspector Rough catches Manningham searching for ill-gotten jewels in this play, which was adapted into a George Cukor film that won (*) Ingrid Bergman her first Oscar. In this play, Bella’s husband manipulates the title technology and pretends nothing happened in order to convince her she is going insane. For 10 points, what Patrick Hamilton play gave its name to a method of psychological abuse?
Gaslight [accept Angel Street] (The Lancet paper introduced the modern term.) &lt;DS&gt;
8

161200-)
This play’s author described it as “a unit of theatrical time that is then juxtaposed with other units to convey meaning.” In this play, a limousine driver who often ends his sentences with “you see what I’m saying” befriends a boy he describes as a “blunt little shit.” A student in this play recounts how “the one thing that my parents didn’t see me do” was his performance of a “killer scene” from Angels in America. A crowd sings “Amazing Grace” as activists dressed as angels interrupt a (*) protest in this play, which ends with Andy Paris saying that he could see the “sparkling lights” of its title town. During a trial in this play, a father remembers his son as a “winner” and decides to “show mercy” for his murderer Aaron McKinney. The Tectonic Theater Project and Moisés Kaufman wrote—for 10 points—what play about the murder of Matthew Shepard in the title Wyoming town?
The Laramie Project &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161238-)
The protagonist of a story from this collection is mocked for coming up with “quall” as a rhyme for “hall” to continue a song about a woman who doesn’t wear drawers. That protagonist from this collection has to kill “six feet of snake” before hiding inside a black kiln. In a story from this collection, Silas is trapped in a burning house after shooting Sarah’s rapist, a “graphophone” salesman. In this collection’s first story, Bobo is tarred and feathered, and the title boy’s friends Lester and Buck are shot after skinny-dipping with him. A preacher under threat from the police decides to go through with a (*) Communist rally in this collection’s story “Fire and Cloud.” This collection begins with the autobiographical essay “The Ethics of Living Jim Crow” and the “long story” “Big Boy Leaves Home.” For 10 points, what first collection by Richard Wright was titled after a novel by Harriet Beecher Stowe?
Uncle Tom’s Children &lt;JR&gt;   Pre-ICT and Nationals Open/Minnesota Open 2019 (PIANO/MO): “What about bad subject matter? Or a bad title drop, even? That could kill a tournament pretty good.” Written and edited by Jacob Reed, Adam Silverman, Sam Bailey, Michael Borecki, Stephen Eltinge, Adam S. Fine, Jason Golfinos, Matt Jackson, Wonyoung Jang, Michael Kearney, Moses Kitakule, Shan Kothari, Chloe Levine, John Marvin, and Derek So, with Joey Goldman and Will Holub-Moorman.  Packet 6 Bonuses
8

161256-)
A metaphorical version of this place is described as the source of “rags” used to clothe a poem’s title object, which is then told, “In this array, ‘mongst vulgars may’st thou roam.” While passing through this place, a woman remarks how no “bridegroom’s voice” will ever be heard in it and describes it as “glory richly furnished.” Residents of this place include a son “whom greedy yet I miss out of his kicking place,” a husband who “will listen while you read a Song,” and a woman who is described as (*) “restless, waiting for him” in a poem by John Berryman. A resident of this title place, which once contained a “store I counted best,” is awoken by a “thund’ring noise / And piteous shrieks of dreadful voice” in a poem titled for it, which ends by remarking that “The world no longer let me love / My hope and treasure lies above.” For 10 points, name this title place of “Verses upon the Burning of our House.”
Anne Bradstreet’s house [accept any description of Anne or Simon Bradstreet’s home or similar; accept “Verses upon the Burning of our House” until mentioned; prompt on partial answer; prompt on Massachusetts Bay Colony or North Andover, Massachusetts or America or The New World etc.] &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161274-)
A work by this author contains the diagram of a window through which he escaped naked after having sex with a babysitter. This author inspired a character who freezes to death while counting railway ties in Mexico in the story “The Day After Superman Died.” In another book, this author’s technique of talking to passengers instead of looking at the road is described as “gestalt driving”. In 2018, Emory University purchased this man’s “Joan Anderson Letter,” which inspired the “spontaneous (*) prose” of another author. This author of The First Third was the driver of the bus Furthur in Tom Wolfe’s The Electric Koolaid Acid Test. A character based on this author is called “the father we never found” in the final line of a novel in which he abandons Sal Paradise in Mexico City. For 10 points, name this Beat Generation author who was Jack Kerouac’s model for Dean Moriarty in On The Road.
Neal (Leon) Cassady &lt;DS&gt;
8

161295-)
The first film to use an awards advertising campaign was based on one of this author’s works. A 2018 film whose English title alludes to one of this author’s works features an hour-long 3D dream sequence shot in a single take. A 1933 adaptation of one of this author’s works starring Paul Robeson is often considered the first movie with an African-American lead. A film based on one of this author’s works begins with the line “Gimme a whisky,” and was marketed with the tagline “Garbo Talks!” This author’s affair with Louise Bryant was portrayed in Warren Beatty’s film (*) Reds, where he was played by Jack Nicholson. Rosalind Russell came closest to winning an Oscar as this author’s character Lavinia, whose father Ezra is murdered by her mother Christine in his adaptation of the Oresteia. For 10 points, name this author of Mourning Becomes Electra and Long Day’s Journey Into Night.
Eugene (Gladstone) O’Neill &lt;DS&gt;
8

161298-)
This poet described “fire laid upon an emerald as long as the Dark King’s massy one” in a poem about an animal “hid by the august foliage and fruit of the grape-vine twine.” This author of “To a Chameleon” compared the title concept of another poem to “Gieseking playing Scarlatti” and “the glaze on a katydid-wing.” A poem by this author of “The Mind Is an Enchanting Thing” describes a dead “chasm-side” and animals that “wade through black jade,” and shares its name with a poem by her mentee (*) Elizabeth Bishop. The epigraph to her 1967 Complete Poems states that “Omissions are not accidents” since it is not, in fact, complete. This author of “The Fish” called for descriptions of “imaginary gardens with real toads in them” in a poem that invokes the scarequoted phrase “literalists of the imagination” and opens “I, too, dislike it.” For 10 points, what American modernist wrote the poem “Poetry”?
Marianne Moore &lt;WJ&gt;   Pre-ICT and Nationals Open/Minnesota Open 2019 (PIANO/MO): “What about bad subject matter? Or a bad title drop, even? That could kill a tournament pretty good.” Written and edited by Jacob Reed, Adam Silverman, Sam Bailey, Michael Borecki, Stephen Eltinge, Adam S. Fine, Jason Golfinos, Matt Jackson, Wonyoung Jang, Michael Kearney, Moses Kitakule, Shan Kothari, Chloe Levine, John Marvin, and Derek So, with Joey Goldman and Will Holub-Moorman.  Packet 9 Bonuses
8

161299-)
1. A poet with this last name described “one of those…emerald flies that always look “freshly generated from fresh excrement” in an elegy for his friend Erving Goffman. That poet with this last name was known for using extremely long, prose-like lines in books like 2003’s The Singing and 2000’s Repair. A poet with this last name asked “What common language to unravel?” in a poem that calls for “Nothing but the blank faces of the houses and cylindrical trees.” That poet with this last name invented the (*) “triadic line” and claimed that “The pure products of America go crazy—” in a collection whose title poem begins “By the road to the contagious hospital…”. The collection Spring and All was published by a poet with this last name who called for “no ideas but in things” and worked as a pediatrician. For 10 points, give this last name of the poet who wrote Paterson and “The Red Wheelbarrow.”
Williams [accept C.K. Williams or William Carlos Williams] <JR>
8

161327-)
16. The speaker of this poem promises to use "sea-winds blown from east and west" and the "breath of my chant" to make a "perfume." The "call" of a "bashful and tender" singer is heard by this poem's speaker when he visits a swamp. This poem closes by mentioning the "fragrant pines" and "cedars" that had repeatedly been mentioned throughout its fifteen sections. This poem includes seven italicized stanzas that are the lyrics of a (*) "carol" sung by a "gray-brown" bird. This poem's speaker identifies its addressee with the "western orb sailing the heaven." A "solitary" thrush and a "great star early droop'd in the western sky in the night" are referenced in, for 10 points, what long elegy to Abraham Lincoln written by Walt Whitman?
"When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom'd"  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161351-)
19. A member of this family named Vincent has his draft survey hidden by his mother Mary Moriarty since her other son Kenneth died in the war. Princeton's Firestone Library holds the only authorized manuscripts of several stories about this family, including "The Last and Best of the Peter Pans" and "The Ocean Full of Bowling Balls." A member of this family ends the novel in which he appears by saying "Don't (*) tell anybody anything. If you do, you start missing everybody." Characters from this family include a "sell-out" writer who works for Hollywood named D. B., and a narrator who observes his sister riding a carousel shortly after he is expelled from Pencey Prep. For 10 points, what family includes Holden, the narrator of The Catcher in the Rye?
Caulfields  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161353-)
21. In a short chapter of this novel, a character states that if the narrator should ever run into Albert Schweitzer, he should tell him "you are not my hero." This novel concludes with the narrator reading a note stating a man's wish to climb a mountain named for Earl McCabe, writing a history of human stupidity, and then thumbing "You Know Who." During an airshow in this novel commemorating the "Hundred Martyrs to Democracy," a plane crashes into a (*) dictator's palace, causing an apocalypse. This novel's characters include Papa Monzano, a dictator whose death fulfills a prophecy made in The Books of Bokonon. The scientist Felix Bokonon creates a deadly substance called Ice-9 in, for 10 points, what novel by Kurt Vonnegut?
Cat's Cradle  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;     NSC 2019 - Round 02 - Bonuses
5

161356-)
3. This unnamed conflict's origins are the subject of a book by the scholars Edgar Branch and Robert Hirst. A character in this conflict asks the narrator a riddle about where Moses was when a candle went out. One side in this conflict lives in a home in which the tacky poem "Ode to Stephen Dowling Bots" hangs from its walls. This conflict climaxes after the narrator retrieves a Bible with the message "HALF (*) PAST TWO" written in it. The participants in this conflict listen to a church sermon about "brotherly-love" while keeping their guns between their knees. In this conflict, a "colonel" and his sons are killed after young Sophia elopes with Harney. For 10 points, what deadly feud between two Kentuckian families is depicted in Huckleberry Finn?
the feud between the Grangerfords and the Shepherdsons [accept any synonym for feud that mentions the two families; prompt on answers that do not mention the two families, such as the feud in Huckleberry Finn]  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161392-)
18. In one appearance, a man starts intoning this phrase as a song after he is accused of being a "BOG in the history department" because he is just "some bookworm." In its first appearance, this phrase is sung to the tune of "Here we go round the mulberry bush" to drown out a crying wife. According to the author, this phrase was a "bland, intellectual joke" that he first saw etched with soap on a mirror in a New York City (*) toilet. After it is revealed a couple is infertile, a man asks this phrase and his wife responds "I am . . . I am" to end the play. The play titled for this phrase had its Pulitzer Prize overturned by an advisory committee, and depicts verbal abuse between Martha and George. For 10 points, give this question that titles a play by Edward Albee.
Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161397-)
2. An elderly romance novelist finances a character's visits to one of these places that a woman contrasts with a much worse one named Wymark. In between staying at one of these places, a book's narrator starts hemorrhaging after she sleeps with a math professor named Irwin. That same character, a former intern at a magazine called Ladies' Day, encounters her friend Joan Gilling at one of these places. Billy (*) Bibbitt sleeps with a prostitute named Candy in one of these places. Time spent at one of these places temporarily lifts the metaphorical title object from Esther Greenwood's head in the only novel by Sylvia Plath. For 10 points, Randle P. McMurphy is forced to get a lobotomy in what type of place, the setting of One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest?
insane asylum [or mental institution; or psychiatric hospital; prompt on hospital]  &lt;Bentley, Literature - American&gt;
5

161403-)
8. This novel lends its title to an Ahmed Saadawi book about junk-dealer Hadi set in Baghdad during the American occupation. A mime named Thomas Potter Cook popularized this novel in a stage adaptation where he dressed in a blue body stocking. A recent annotated edition of this novel "for scientists" is introduced by Guillermo del Toro and has an illustration of the (*) Villa Diodati, where the story was conceived during the "Year Without a Summer" alongside John Polidori's "The Vampyre." The iconic version of this novel's anti-hero first appeared in a 1931 Boris Karloff film. A humorous take on this novel has Igor assisting its "young" title character in a Mel Brooks comedy. For 10 points, name this novel about a synthetic monster by Mary Shelley.
Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus [accept Frankenstein in Baghdad; accept Young Frankenstein]  &lt;Bentley, Other - Other Academic and General Knowledge&gt;
5

161425-)
9. In a short story by this author, an old woman says "Five pennies is a nickel" to encourage a hospital attendant to give her more money so she can buy a paper windmill. In another story by this author, an uncle wakes his niece at 6:30 AM by throwing firecrackers into her room after hearing she called him a fool for wearing a pink kimono. The narrator of that story by this author is falsely accused of wanting (*) Papa-Daddy to cut off his beard. This author wrote stories about Phoenix Jackson, an old woman who walks to Natchez to retrieve throat medicine for her grandson, and a woman whose family is turned against her by her sister Stella-Rondo. For 10 points, name this Mississippi-born author of "A Worn Path" and "Why I Live at the P.O."
Eudora Welty [or Eudora Alice Welty]  &lt;Guedes, Literature - American&gt;
5

161451-)
14. In his final appearance, this character enters a minister's hotel room while wearing green-tinted glasses, and leaves behind a note mentioning a "sinister design" worthy of "Thyestes" (thy-ESS-teez). This character is often approached by a prefect named "G-", whom this character describes as "too cunning to be profound." This character suggests a killer can be found by searching for a boat used by a character's sailor boyfriend. This practitioner of a form of logic dubbed (*) "ratiocination" appears in "The Mystery of Marie Roget (ROH-zhay)," "The Purloined Letter," and a third story in which this character deduces Madame L'Espanaye (leh-SPAHN-eye) was killed by an orangutan. "The Murders in the Rue Morgue" features, for 10 points, what detective created by Edgar Allan Poe?
C. Auguste Dupin [accept either underlined part; prompt on C.]  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161462-)
4. In Jesmyn Ward's novel Salvage the Bones, Esch Batiste received a grade of an A after reading this work since she "answered the hardest question right." A character in this novel receives a horse from Quick in exchange for clearing land at night. In this novel, a character who fights off buzzards blames Dr. Peabody for a woman's death. Another character in this novel is sent to a mental institution after burning down (*) Gillespie's barn. Reverend Whitfield is revealed to be a character's real father in this novel where MacGowan gives Dewey Dell fake abortion pills. In this novel, a flood sweeps away a coffin built by Cash. For 10 points, name this novel about the Bundren family's journey to bury their mother Addie, written by William Faulkner.
As I Lay Dying  &lt;Mao, Literature - American&gt;
5

161480-)
1. This character "tried to leave" his sister behind but he was "more faithful than he intended to be." This character is fired for writing a poem on top of a box. This character calls one of his former classmates an "emissary from the world of reality" in the opening monologue, in which he stands in front of a fire escape and proclaims he is showing the audience a "memory play." His frequent visits to the movies may actually be (*) homosexual encounters. He is called "Shakespeare" by one of his former high school classmates, with whom he works at a shoe factory. That man, Jim, is one of several "gentleman-callers" who visits this character's sister Laura. For 10 points, name this narrator of the play The Glass Menagerie.
Tom Wingfield [prompt on Wingfield]  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161519-)
19. In an appendix to his first book, this author refutes the suggestion that he is "an enemy of all religion," suggesting he only hates the "horrible hypocrisy" of Christianity. In one of his books, this author recounts his friend Nathan Johnson giving him a new surname from Walter Scott's Lady of the Lake. In that book, this author describes receiving a "magical root" from a woman named Sandy Jenkins before he fights with Edward (*) Covey, a man who tried to "break" him. This man credited a schoolbook called The Columbian Orator for his literacy in an autobiographical work that ends with his marriage to Anna Murray, a freewoman. For 10 points, name this abolitionist who described his escape from slavery in a namesake "narrative."
Frederick Douglass [accept either underlined part; accept Frederick Augustus Washington Bailey]  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161539-)
18. At the opening, this story's narrator parenthetically remarks that it is written on "dead paper" making telling it a "great relief." The narrator of this story sees a figure in "the dark grape arbors" and "creeping all around the garden" at an estate where she yearns to see her cousins Henry and Julia. That narrator hides a key under a plantain leaf in this work so the housekeeper Jennie cannot reach her. Silas Weir Mitchell, who administered a "rest (*) cure," inspired the protagonist's physician husband John in this story. It is narrated by a woman who lives at a house with the title "silly and conspicuous front design" to cure her of a "slight hysterical tendency" and "nervous depression." For 10 points, a colorful decoration gives its name to what story by Charlotte Perkins Gilman?
"The Yellow Wallpaper"  &lt;Mao, Literature - American&gt;
5

161542-)
21. One of this author's stories follows Fred, who finds an infant's corpse while escaping the police in a sewer. In another story by this author of "The Man who Lived Underground," Jim shoots Lester and Buck while they are swimming as Bobo escapes with Big Boy. The death of a woman who lives at 4605 Drexel is investigated by Detective Britten in a novel by this author where the protagonist signs a ransom note "Red" and backs out of robbing (*) Blum's deli. This author of the short story collections Eight Men and Uncle Tom's Children created a character who eats at Ernie's Kitchen Shack with the Communist Jan Erlone, whom he frames for his murder of Mary Dalton. For 10 points, name this African-American creator of Bigger Thomas in his novel Native Son.
Richard Wright [or Richard Nathaniel Wright]  &lt;Mao, Literature - American&gt;     NSC 2019 - Round 11 - Bonuses
5

161546-)
4. This story's title derives from a section of Pierre Teilhard de Chardin's ("teh-yar duh shar-dan'z") The Omega Point that argues love will allow humanity to evolve into the divine. A woman in this story goes on a long tangent about the time her father paid off the mortgage for the Godhighs' mansion, which had double stairways. A character in this story wears a hat that resembles a green "cushion with the stuffing out" and has a purple velvet flap. This story is set during a trip to (*) Mrs. Chestny's "reducing classes" at the downtown Y. In this story, the narrator's mother has a stroke shortly after being struck by a black woman for giving her son Carver a penny. A young man named Julian is the protagonist of, for 10 points, what story by Flannery O'Connor?
"Everything That Rises Must Converge"  &lt;Smith, Literature - American&gt;
5

161572-)
9. The speaker of one of this author's poems states the True Church "can never fail / For it is based upon a rock," and compares it to a "broad-backed hippopotamus" that "rests on his belly in the mud." This author wrote a poem in which the speaker imagines "three white leopards" feeding on his legs, heart, and liver" and which opens "Because I do not hope to turn again." Another of his speakers is asked a question by the Smyrna merchant "Mr. (*) Eugenides" in "demotic French." After converting to Anglicanism, this author wrote "Ash Wednesday." He used the Sanskrit words shantih, shantih, shantih ("SHAHN-tee") to close a poem that begins "April is the cruellest month." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "The Waste Land."
Thomas Stearns Eliot [accept T. S. Eliot]  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161591-)
7. At the conclusion of one of her memoirs, this author catches a snapping turtle and ponders the meaning of life when it does not die. The film Julia was based on the possibly fraudulent section of a memoir by this writer. When she died, this author was suing Mary McCarthy for saying that "every word [this author] writes is a lie" on national television. The memoir Pentimento describes this author's romantic relationship with the mystery writer (*) Dashiell Hammett and her appearance before HUAC. She wrote a dramatic work in which a woman blackmails her siblings for ownership of a cotton mill and lets her husband Horace die of a heart attack to increase her wealth. For 10 points, name this author who depicted the cunning Regina Hubbard in her play The Little Foxes.
Lillian Hellman [accept Lillian Florence Hellman]  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161610-)
5. This poet bemoaned "a tawdry cheapness" that "shall reign throughout our days," even though that poem praises "the sage Heraclitus" for his idea that "all things are are a-flowing." This poet used ABAB quatrains in the "Yeux Glauques" ("yuh glock") section of a poem that laments a "botched civilization" and an "old bitch gone in the teeth." That poem is named for a poet who "for three years, / was out of sync with his time." In the "Rock (*) Drill" and "Thrones" section of another of his poems, this author started using Chinese characters in its text. A short poem by this author compares "petals on a wet, black bough" to "faces in the crowd." "Hugh Selwyn Mauberley" ("hew SEL-win MAW-bur-lee") is by, for 10 points, what poet who never finished his modernist epic The Cantos?
Ezra Pound [accept Ezra Weston Loomis Pound]  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161646-)
20. The stabbing death of Richard Adam was blamed on this author, since he had the culprit Jack Abbott paroled to publish the memoir In the Belly of the Beast. One of this author's characters breaks down in Oregon State Penitentiary after his brother Gaylen is stabbed; that character is given a job at a shoe repair shop by his cousin Brenda and later shoots a gas station employee named Max. The memoir The Last Party describes how this author used a (*) penknife to stab his second wife, Adele Morales. He won a Pulitzer Prize for a novel about a criminal convicted of a double murder in Utah who does not contest his death sentence. For 10 points, what author wrote about Gary Gilmore in his stab at a "nonfiction novel" called The Executioner's Song?
Norman Mailer [or Norman Kingsley Mailer]  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161654-)
7. A 2006 biography by Charles Shields claims that this novel was the last in a planned trilogy that would have included a novella called The Long Goodbye. A passage in this novel discusses a "careless indictment" that allows a character to win an acquittal for a one-armed boy. The author's lawyer Tonja Carter claimed that its author was "happy as hell" with this novel's publication despite the author likely suffering from (*) dementia at the time of its publication. The protagonist of this novel has a brother who died of a heart attack at the age of 28, and finds a racist pamphlet called "The Black Plague" when she returns to Maycomb, Alabama. For 10 points, what novel published in 2014 might have been an early draft of Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird?
Go Set a Watchman  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161676-)
8. This municipality was the setting of the abortive novel Talbot Whittingham. In this town, after a carpenter fixes his bed to be level with the window, a man writes a book about people who snatch up truths and make them into falsehoods. The sight of a naked woman praying prompts a reverend to punch through a window in this town. "The Book of the Grotesque" opens a book depicting this town, whose residents include a man formerly named Adolph (*) Myers, and who was once accused of molestation. Twenty-two stories, including "The Strength of God" and "Hands," are set in this town. The journalist George Willard appears in "Departure," which is the final story in a collection named after, for 10 points, what Ohio town created by Sherwood Anderson?
Winesburg, Ohio  &lt;Smith, Literature - American&gt;
5

161686-)
18. In this novel, a character expresses a desire to eat some "breadfruit pasta" during a journey to collect supplies. This novel's narrator tries a "nicotine-rich" cigar while in a character's library, and observes the mysterious Latin phrase mobilis in mobili on his kitchen utensils. The plot of this novel begins after Farragut offers $2,000 to anyone who can find a mysterious animal using their spyglasses while on board the (*) Abraham Lincoln. This novel's narrator is served by the Flemish Conseil. In this novel, the harpooner Ned Land and the academic Pierre Aronnax escape a certain vehicle when they encounter a storm called a Maelstrom. For 10 points, what novel about the submarine Nautilus commanded by Captain Nemo was written by Jules Verne?
Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea: A Tour of the Underwater World or Vingt mille lieues sous les mers: Tour du monde sous-marin  &lt;Reinstein, Literature - European&gt;
5

161695-)
6. A poem by this author compares "Each Age" to a "Lens / Disseminating their Circumference." Another poem by this author states "assent" and "you are sane" but "demur," and "you're straightaway dangerous - / and handled with a chain." A third poem by this writer describes the "Crescent above" the "years" when "Worlds scoop their Arcs - and Firmaments - row - Diadems drop." This author wrote poems beginning "The Poets light but lamps," "Much Madness is divinest sense," and (*) "Safe in their Alabaster Chambers". Another of her poems describes a quality that "sings the tune without the words" and "perches in the soul." For 10 points, name this author who proclaimed "'Hope' is the thing with feathers," a reclusive poet from Amherst.
Emily Dickinson  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161716-)
6. A novel by this author depicts a student's time in South-West Africa studying "sferics" amid a tribal uprising in a chapter titled "Mondaugen's Story." While in a hotel room, two characters in one of this author's novels watch a movie in which one of them appeared as a child actor before playing Strip Botticelli. In that novel by this author, the protagonist sees the acronym (*) W.A.S.T.E. on a bathroom wall, below which is drawn a muted post horn, the symbol of the secret postal service Trystero. Roger Mexico finds that a Poisson distribution fits both the sexual exploits of Tyrone Slothrop and V-2 rocket strikes in a lengthy novel by this author. For 10 points, name this postmodern author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity's Rainbow.
Thomas Pynchon [or Thomas Ruggles Pynchon Jr.]  &lt;Morrison, Literature - American&gt;
5

161746-)
15. An essay by this writer compares a man's character to an "acrostic" or "Alexandrian stanza" since they both spell the same thing when they are read "forward, backward, or across." This author discusses a time in men's lives when they think "envy is ignorance" and that "imitation is suicide . . ." in a work declaring "to be great is to be misunderstood." This author imagined the "currents of the Universal Being" circling through him and becoming "part and parcel with (*) God" in an essay comparing the title subject to a "transparent eye-ball." This author of "Nature" wrote an 1841 essay that attacks "conformity" as a concept that makes men false. For 10 points, "Self-Reliance" was written by what author of the Transcendentalist movement?
Ralph Waldo Emerson  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161767-)
15. In one short story by this author, Missie May sleeps with Otis Slemmons to try and receive his wealth, but discovers that the title coins are fraudulent. This author contrasts death in "the shadow of the Empire State Building" with the metaphysics of Haiti in a work inspired by her mentor Franz Boas which famously likens anthropology to a "spy glass." This author of "The Gilded Six Bits" and the non-fiction work (*) Mules and Men wrote of how Pheoby Watson and other women defend one of this author's characters when she is put on trial for murdering her rabies-infected lover during the great Okeechobee flood. A character named Tea Cake marries Janie Crawford in, for 10 points, what author's novel Their Eyes Were Watching God?
Zora Neale Hurston  &lt;Evans, Literature - American&gt;
5

161790-)
17. In one poem from this movement, the speaker wonders if the name of his homeland is "a book that one thumbs / listlessly till slumber comes." The speaker of another poem from this movement would "like a pipe for a Christmas present, or records" such as "Bessie, bop, Bach." In that poem from this movement, the speaker is told "Go home and write a page tonight, . . . and let that page come out of you." This movement's poems include (*) "Heritage" by Countee Cullen, and another author's "Theme for English B." In another poem from this movement, the author asks does it "crust and sugar over, / like a syrupy sweet?" in trying to answer the question "what happens to a dream deferred?" For 10 points, name this movement whose poets included Langston Hughes.
Harlem Renaissance [accept New Negro Movement]  &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;
5

161795-)
1. In a public reading, this author repudiated the idea that the word "jazz" in one poem meant "rape." A speaker created by this poet complains "We are things of dry hours and the involuntary plan" in her poem "kitchenette building." Of one of her poems, this author claimed it depicts a group that makes "wispy... 'Kilroy-is-here' announcements;" that poem is set at a pool hall called "The Golden Shovel." This author wrote the poetry collection The Bean (*) Eaters eight years before she was appointed Poet Laureate of Illinois. This author of the Pulitzer Prize-winning Annie Allen wrote a poem depicting speakers that "strike straight," "sing sin," "jazz June," and "die soon." For 10 points, name this author of the poem "We Real Cool."
Gwendolyn Brooks [or Gwendolyn Elizabeth Brooks]  &lt;Smith, Literature - American&gt;
5

161817-)
2. Pencil and paper ready. A machine that can extract the juice of two hundred oranges in half an hour can be found in the kitchen of a house where each Friday, five crates of oranges and lemons arrive as supplies for cocktails. Bearing in mind that there are probably at least 100 fruits in a crate, that this is the (*) NSC and there are no comp math questions, and that the cocktails are consumed by the pianist Klipspringer, Owl Eyes, and other attendees of parties on West Egg, for 10 points, name this novel in which those parties are thrown by a lonely millionaire who stares at the green light at the end of Daisy Buchanan's dock.
The Great Gatsby [accept Jay Gatsby's house or equivalents before "this novel"] &lt;Gupta&gt;
5

161828-)
13. According to Leon Edel's biography of Henry James, Henry James's father had to be amputated after he stomped out a barn fire at the age of 13. Amazingly, that also happened to the father of this other writer, a (*) philosopher best known for tracts like "Essays in Radical Empiricism" and "The Varieties of Religious Experience." For 10 points, name him.
William James &lt;Jose&gt;  We've once again brought back that party favorite, the action tossup; let's recap how they work. To successfully answer one of these questions, you must physically perform the thing being described. Do not describe what you're trying to do out loud unless I prompt you to do so. Some questions might involve a prop; in that case, miming is fine. Some questions require one or more partners; when you buzz, you must choose your partners and perform the action. You can physically or verbally direct them to do things, but you can't explicitly explain what you're trying to do unless I prompt you to do so. Good luck!
5

161857-)
13. In one story by this author, a soldier begins to regain his faculties after receiving a broken watch and a note that says “HELLO” ten times. One of his characters calls a woman in an elevator a sneak for looking at his feet; that character is married to the superficial Muriel and plays the piano next to Sharon Lipschutz. This author of (*) “For Esmé – with Love and Squalor” wrote a novel whose protagonist owns a baseball mitt which belonged to his deceased brother Allie. That character is expelled from Pencey Prep and buys a record for his sister Phoebe. For 10 points, name this author of “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” and The Catcher in the Rye.
Jerome David Salinger &lt;Short Fiction/Other, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161903-)
19. This man tells the story of Dave Singleman, a colleague who died in his green velvet slippers. In that scene, this character exclaims “you can’t eat the orange and throw the peel away” to a man who plays a recording of his son reciting state capitals. This character tries to plant carrots in the dark after he is abandoned by his sons at Frank’s Chop House. This man repeatedly (*) hallucinates about his rich brother Ben and he gifts a pair of nylon stockings to his mistress. This man kills himself to leave an insurance policy shortly before his wife finishes making the last payment on their house. For 10 points name this protagonist of Arthur Miller’s Death of a Salesman.
Willy Loman [prompt on Loman, prompt on the salesman] &lt;Drama, JB&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161911-)
7. One character with this surname drowned in the Brandywine River while boating with his wife Primula. Another character with this surname enrages an enemy by asking, “what have I got in my pocket” and disappearing. A different character with this surname is held prisoner in Cirith Ungol after he gets paralyzed by a (*) spider. A character with this surname is hired as a “burglar” and joins a company that includes Balin and Bombur. The most famous character with this surname wields the sword “Sting” and journeys to Mordor to destroy the One Ring. For 10 points, give this surname of Bilbo and Frodo, a pair of hobbits.
Baggins [accept Drogo Baggins, Bilbo Baggins, or Frodo Baggins] &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, JB&gt;&lt;ed. KLu&gt;
3

161917-)
13. A character in this work recalls that he was buried alive for being falsely accused for killing his father, and responds “yes ma’am” when a woman insists that he “must come from nice people!” In this work, June Star exclaims “I wouldn’t live in a broken-down place like this for a million bucks!” when they arrive at (*) Red Sammy’s restaurant. Several characters in this work cry “We’ve had an accident!” after the cat Pitty Sing causes Bailey to swerve into a ditch. That family asks for help from a group of men who turn out to be fugitives, Hiram and Bobby Lee. For 10 points, name this story in which the Misfit kills a grandmother and her family, by Flannery O’Connor.
“A Good Man is Hard to Find” &lt;Short Fiction/Other, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161922-)
18. A poem about this conflict exclaims “green by the graves where her martyrs are lying!” In another poem set in this war, “meeting-house windows, blank and bare, / Gaze at [the title figure] with a spectral glare.” “Embattled farmers” stand in another poem about this war, in which “their flag to April’s breeze unfurled.” The author of such poems as “The American Soldier” and “The Indian Burying Ground” was called the “poet of [this war].” A poem describing this conflict begins (*) “listen my children and you will hear,” and describes a hero who warns his countrymen that their enemies are coming by sea. For 10 points, “Concord Hymn” and “Paul Revere’s Ride” are set in what war?
The American Revolution [accept the Revolutionary War] &lt;Non-epic Poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161933-)
9. Two men in this work test each other on their knowledge of the wilderness in order to gain each other’s trust. In this novel, a warrior asks a character to heal his wife’s madness and leads him to a cave, unaware that he is followed by a man in a bear disguise. The sage Tamenund frees some prisoners in this novel, including a singing-master named David (*) Gamut who tries to teach beavers to sing. This novel begins as Duncan Heyward and Hawk-Eye escort the Munro sisters to Fort Henry, only to be deceived by Magua. For 10 points, name this novel in which Uncas dies in battle and leaves Chingachgook as the title character, the second of James Fenimore Cooper’s Leatherstocking Tales.
The Last of the Mohicans &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161948-)
4. This author created the fictional town of Apex, whose most naive member begins an affair with Peter Van Degan, leading to the suicide of Ralph Marvell. One work by this author examines the downfall of a socialite caused by a disastrous occasion on the yacht Sabrina at the hands of Bertha Dorset. This author of (*) The Custom of The Country created a character described by an unnamed narrator as “the ruin of man” due to a suicide pact he formed with Mattie Silver, leading to a deadly sled crash into an elm tree. For 10 points each, name this American who wrote about Lily Bart’s suicide in The House of Mirth and the title character in Ethan Frome.
Edith Wharton &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161950-)
6. A character in this play receives gardening tools as a moving gift, including an oversized hat from her grandson. One character in this play yells “FLAMING SPEAR! HOT DAMN!” while his sister chants “OCOMOGOSIAY.” A character in this play considers marrying and moving to Nigeria with Joseph (*) Asagai. Mr. Lindner tries to bribe this play’s central family not to move to the all-white Clybourne Park community. Another character in this play squanders his sister’s medical school money on a liquor store when Willy Harris takes the money and runs. For 10 points, name this play about the Younger Family, written by Lorraine Hansberry.
A Raisin in the Sun &lt;Drama, EL&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161982-)
18. A character with this first name lives in a house whose interior has not been seen for ten years, except by an old man-servant. After her father passes away, that character is given tax exemptions by her town’s mayor Colonel Sartoris. Another character with this first name asks the question “Do any human beings realize life while they live it?” in a monologue. That character dies in (*) childbirth and re-celebrates her twelfth birthday party with the help of the Stage Manager. That woman marries high school baseball phenom George Gibbs in Wilder’s Our Town. For 10 points, William Faulkner wrote a short story titled “A Rose for” what character, also the first name of the author of Wuthering Heights?
Emily [accept Emily Grierson, Emily Webb, or Emily Brontë] &lt;Short Fiction/Other, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161985-)
1. In this poem, the central figure is compared to “a head in the freakish Atlantic / where it pours bean green over blue / in the waters off beautiful Nauset.” This poem describes “the Polish town / scraped flat by the roller / of wars, wars, wars.” The speaker recalls a “vampire who said he was you / and drank my blood for a year” after musing “I may be a bit of a Jew.” The poem’s subject has an (*) “Aryan eye, bright blue” and frightens the speaker with his “Luftwaffe, [his] gobbledygoo.” The speaker insists that “every woman adores a Fascist, / the boot in the face” and tells the title figure “there’s a stake in your fat black heart.” For 10 points, name this Sylvia Plath poem addressed to her father.
“Daddy” &lt;Non-epic Poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162010-)
6. In a poem by this author, a woman observes her husband “making the gravel leap and leap in air” as he digs the grave of their infant child. In another poem, the speaker describes “Such heaps of broken glass to sweep away / You'd think the inner dome of heaven had fallen.” That poem ends by declaring “One could do worse than be a swinger of” the title (*) trees. In another poem, the speaker stops during “the darkest evening of the year” “to watch [the] woods fill up with snow.” That poem ends by repeating the line “And miles to go before I sleep.” For 10 points, identify this poet of “Home Burial,” “Birches,” and “Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening.”
Robert Frost &lt;Non-epic Poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162042-)
18. This poet wrote “time will say nothing but I told you so” in the villanelle “If I Could Tell You.” One of his poems describes “the lie of Authority / whose buildings grope the sky” and “children afraid of the night / Who have never been happy or good.” Another poem depicts “something amazing, a boy falling out of the sky” and begins “About suffering they were never wrong, the (*) Old Masters”; that poem was based on a Bruegel painting. The speaker of another poem contemplates how “the clever hopes expire / of a low dishonest decade” as he sits “in one of the dives / On 52nd street.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Musée des Beaux Arts” and “September 1, 1939.”
Wystan Hugh Auden &lt;Non-epic Poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162050-)
6. The antagonist of this work is flustered by a character wearing only a towel, who later reveals that he was wearing shorts underneath depicting white whales. Another character, Harding, is self-conscious about his effeminate hands and constantly boasts about his wife’s breasts. The protagonist of this novel exhibits defiance by gambling, organizing a (*) fishing trip, and enduring electroshock therapy. At the end of this work, Billy Bibbit slits his throat after sleeping with Candy, and the protagonist is lobotomized and smothered to death. For 10 points, name this 1962 novel about Randle McMurphy’s rebellion against Nurse Ratched in a psychiatric ward, written by Ken Kesey.
One Flew Over the Cuckoo’s Nest &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162065-)
1. In a poem by this author, the moon’s hand “twists a paper rose, / that smells of dust and old Cologne.” This author of “Rhapsody on a Windy Night” wrote a poem whose speaker considers the “purpose [of] disturbing the dust on a bowl of rose-leaves,” illustrating a garden to demonstrate the abstract nature of time. That poem, “Burnt Norton,” opens his (*) Four Quartets. The speaker of one poem declares “there will be time to murder and create” and describes women who “come and go / talking of Michelangelo.” Another poem invokes an “unreal city” and begins “April is the cruellest month.” For 10 points, name this poet of “The Lovesong of J. Alfred Prufrock” and “The Waste Land.”
Thomas Stearns Eliot &lt;Non-epic Poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162097-)
13. The author of this work praises Lot’s wife for looking back at the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah and likens himself to a pillar of salt. This novel’s protagonist finds a diamond and a partial denture in an impresario’s coat after a performance of Cinderella. In this novel, a character wearing nothing but a heart-shaped locket engraved with the serenity prayer is abducted to a (*) zoo surrounded by cyanide. That woman, Montana Wildhack, repeatedly mates with the husband of Valencia Merble. The protagonist witnesses the firebombing of Dresden and is taken to Tralfamadore in, for 10 points, what novel by Kurt Vonnegut in which Billy Pilgrim becomes “unstuck in time?”
Slaughterhouse-Five &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162113-)
9. A character in this work tells her balding husband to “give your mommy a big sloppy kiss.” This work begins with that character exclaiming “What a dump!” Another character tells the story of a boy who crashes his car when he swerves to avoid a porcupine. In this play, a historian gives a summary of his second novel, which reveals the truth of a (*) “hysterical pregnancy.” In the “Walpurgisnacht” act of this play, characters play games such as “Get the Guests” and “Hump the Hostess.” This play ends with a woman replying “I am...I am” to the title question. For 10 points, name this play about guests Nick and Honey and terrible party hosts George and Martha, by Edward Albee.
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? &lt;Drama, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162219-)
In this lyricist’s final song, a woman describes killing one husband via appendectomy and bludgeoning another with a harp. One lyric by him states: “When love congeals / It soon reveals / The faint aroma of performing seals.” His lyrics for a musical adaptation of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court include “My Heart Stood Still” and “Thou Swell.” His main songwriting partnership dissolved after he declined to work on a musical adaptation of Green Grow the Lilacs. His lyrics “I’m wild again / Beguiled again / A simpering, whimpering child again” appear in (*) “Bewitched, Bothered, and Bewildered” from Pal Joey. One lyric by him tells the title figure “Your looks are laughable / Unphotographable / Still, you're my favorite work of art.” For 10 points, “My Funny Valentine” has lyrics by what man with whom Richard Rodgers collaborated before working with Oscar Hammerstein?
Lorenz (Milton) Hart &lt;JL&gt;
9

162286-)
In one essay, this author points out that many great artists throughout history had fathers who were artists. In another essay, this thinker discusses the painting The Meeting as “A Portrait of the Artist as a Wandering Jew.” This author used the example of Cimabue [“chee-ma-BOO-ey”] discovering Giotto as a shepherd boy to illustrate one concept. This author of the book Courbet wrote about the misleadingly realistic style of The Snake Charmer in “The Imaginary Orient.” She wrote that the title (*) phrase of her most famous essay is rooted in the belief that great artists have an inherent genius when, in actuality, making art is determined by social, cultural, and psychological factors. That 1971 essay concludes by considering the career of the painter of The Horse Fair, Rosa Bonheur. Often called the first feminist art historian, for 10 points, name this author of “Why Have There Been No Great Women Artists?”
Linda Nochlin &lt;HF&gt;
9

162297-)
In an end-credits scene, one of these people quotes Sunset Boulevard by saying “Bring the camera closer...I’m ready for my close-up.” In another film, one of these people goes against the wishes of Mr. David by murdering the patrons of the “Cavalcade of Perversion.” Bell hooks criticized the director of a documentary about these people for never appearing on camera and for abandoning the “spectacle” of one of these people after they were murdered. A voice-over declares one of these people who previously starred in (*) Multiple Maniacs to be one of “the world’s filthiest people” after she eats dog feces in the film Pink Flamingos. Dorian Corey explains “shade,” “realness,” and “houses” in a documentary about these people by Jennie Livingston. Paris is Burning focuses on, for 10 points, what type of performers exemplified by Venus Xtravaganza and Divine?
drag queens [or drag artists/performers] &lt;ES&gt;
9

162307-)
F. Scott Fitzgerald once quipped “My greatest claim to fame is that I met” a woman with this surname “before Cole Porter,” who supposedly wrote the song “Miss Otis Regrets” for her. In the 1950s, another woman with this surname starred in a popular Las Vegas lounge act with her husband, Louis Prima. A Parisian nightclub owner nicknamed “Bricktop” had this last name. Purportedly, the first blues song recorded by a black vocalist was 1920’s “Crazy Blues” sung by a woman of this surname, and the first name (*) Mamie. A singer with this surname, famed for her deep contralto voice, was believed to have had a sexual relationship with her mentor, Ma Rainey, and died in a 1937 car accident dramatized by Edward Albee. Louis Armstrong played the cornet on a 1925 recording of “St. Louis Blues” made by a singer with this surname. For 10 points, give this surname of Bessie, the “Empress of the Blues.”
Smith [or Ada “Bricktop” Smith; or Keely Smith; or Mamie Smith; or Bessie Smith] &lt;WG&gt;
9

162320-)
This author wrote a poem wherein he sequentially observes that “The rose / announces on earth the kingdom / of gravity. A bird cancels it. / My eyelids cancel the bird. Anything / might cancel my eyes: distance, time, war.” He wrote a poem that jumps from a childhood memory of having a splinter extracted from his palm to him performing the same favor for his wife, whom this author described in another poem lying naked with him “in the yard, dewy and shivering / with crickets.” In his 2018 collection The Undressing, this author of “Arise, Go Down” and “The Gift” reckoned with being born to a family’s flight from racist sentiment in (*) Indonesia. In his best-known poem, this author recounted giving his nearly-blind father food which “swelled, heavy sadness, / and sweet as love.” This author began that poem by recalling how in sixth grade, he was reprimanded for “not knowing the difference” between “precision” and the word for the title fruits. For 10 points, name this Chinese-born American poet who wrote “Persimmons.”
Li-Young Lee
9

162344-)
A commentary on the Torah by Cynthia Culpepper describes these characters as receiving “the gift of memory and direction” from a deceased parent. In the Book of Jasher, one of these characters named Paltith was burnt alive for the crime of feeding a homeless man. These characters are presented as having “not known man” when a (*) mob gathers outside of their family’s house. Two of these characters give birth to children named Ben-ammi and Moab after getting their father drunk and sleeping with him. While fleeing their home, the mother of these characters was turned into a pillar of salt. For 10 points, identify these female characters who lived in Sodom with their father, the nephew of Abraham.
Lot’s daughters [prompt on answers like “Lot’s children” or “women”]
9

162346-)
A passage in this book describes woman as “the guide to the sublime acme of sensuous adventure.” The transition between waking and deep sleep through dreams are illustrated in this book by a circular diagram labelled for “emanations” and “dissolutions.” This book compares the act of entering a temple to having “died to time and returned to the World Womb” in a chapter titled “The Belly of the (*) Whale.” The title figure of this book undergoes a “nuclear unit” of separation–initiation–return, after which he acquires the power to bestow boons on his fellow man. For 10 points, name this book by Joseph Campbell which analyzes the idea of the monomyth and common themes in the heroic journey.
The Hero with a Thousand Faces
9

162355-)
A poem titled for one of these places describes “numerous fair women” who were “dreaming rather less of heaven than of hell when they were old.” That poem by Edwin Arlington Robinson describes one of these places as containing “faces unregarded” and “faces to forget.” A poem by Edgar Allan Poe stated that riding over the “Mountains of the Moon” and then passing through one of these places was required to locate a city of (*) gold. In the Bible, children were sacrificed at one of these geographic features named Gehenna. Psalm 23 describes one of these places where “Thou art with me; Thy rod and Thy staff they comfort me.” For 10 points, name these places, one of which in the Bible contains the Shadow of Death.
valley [accept more specific answers, such as “Valley of the Shadow of Death”]
9

162365-)
The history of these objects is a major interest of the anthropologist Regula Tschumi, who has claimed that Ataa Oko was the first to experiment with the abebuu adekai style of these objects. The creation of these religious objects is the subject of the documentary Paa Joe and the Lion. Workshops that specialize in creating these objects include one founded by Kane (*) Kwei, whose grandson Eric Adjetey Anang continues the family business. Many people order custom versions of these objects shaped like aspects of their professional lives in a religious tradition from Ghana. For 10 points, go ahead and put the “fun” in “funeral” by identifying these objects in which a human body is typically buried.
coffins [or obvious equivalents such as caskets, sarcophagi, catafalques, and so forth]
9

162375-)
A Greek version of this religious text was among those read by Alonzo Typer during the events of his mysterious disappearance. Another notable copy of this book was disguised as the Qanoon-e-Islam and was found in the possession of Joseph Curwen, the resurrected ancestor of Charles Dexter Ward. A horrified crowd watched as an invisible monster tore apart this book’s author, Abdul (*) Alhazred. A rhymed couplet from this text states that “That is not dead which can eternal lie / And with strange aeons even death may die,” likely referring to ancient gods such as Yog-Sothoth and Cthulhu. For 10 points, name this fictional religious text from the writings of H. P. Lovecraft.
Necronomicon [or Kitab al-Azif]
9

162452-)
In one story by this author, a farm laborer almost strangles a child for trying to steal his harmonica, on which he plays an enigmatic folk song. The protagonist of that story, titled for a Swedish folk song, commits suicide after a tour of neighboring farms with his wife on which he attempts to explain his reasons for killing the bounty hunter Homer Hatch. In another story by this author, Adam volunteers for a post in World War I with a life expectancy of nine minutes. In that story, his girlfriend, (*) Miranda, works as a theater columnist and survives the Spanish Flu. Another story by this author is set on a boat bound from Mexico to Europe and takes its title from a Sebastian Brant poem. For 10 points, name this author of "The Jilting of Granny Weatherall", Ship of Fools, and Pale Horse, Pale Rider.
Katherine Anne Porter
7

162461-)
A 2014 paper in The Lancet by this scientist argued that type 2 diabetes was caused by not enough oxidants, prompting one professor to claim that his name was the only thing that gained that paper publication. Chapter titles like "Manners Maintained when Reluctantly Leaving Harvard" appear in this man's book Avoid Boring People: Lessons from a Life in Science. This man was the first living Nobel laureate to auction off his medal. This man officially retired from (*) Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory in 2007 following outcry over his comments that he was "inherently gloomy about the prospect of Africa" and that "people who have to deal with black employees find [it] not true" that race and intelligence are not correlated. After this man repeated those opinions in a 2019 documentary, the laboratory stripped him of his honorary titles. For 10 points, name this scientist who, with Rosalind Franklin and Francis Crick, discovered the double-helix nature of DNA.
James Watson
7

162483-)
One character in this novel attacks children for chanting "Turkey in the Straw" "like sorcerers." The protagonist of this novel feeds lunchmeat to the elderly Miss Trixie at a factory job at which he organizes the "Crusade for Moorish Dignity" among black workers. In this novel, a policeman who frequently clashes with Burma Jones tries and fails to read The Consolation of Philosophy, from which its protagonist draws his belief in the goddess (*) Fortuna. This novel's protagonist writes down his thoughts in Big Chief notebooks and runs a hot dog cart. The protagonist of this novel attends a party in the French Quarter and flees New Orleans with his ex-girlfriend, Myra Minkoff. For 10 points, name this novel that chronicles the misadventures of Ignatius J. Reilly, the most famous novel of John Kennedy Toole.
A Confederacy of Dunces
7

162495-)
In one novel, three men from this US state are taken to a prison in which "every man was judged by a single standard, and that was his readiness to kill." In another novel set in this state, a runaway teenager goes to a religious revival and later joins a group of men that includes an ex-priest named Tobin. In this state, a character allows himself to get captured by police to "to see if I could extricate myself by an act of will", and at that novel's end, (*) Sheriff Bell finishes telling his story to the reader. A different novel set in this state follows John Grady Cole from this state's city of San Angelo. While another book set in this state features the bald, demonic Judge Holden and the Glanton gang. For 10 points, name this common setting of novels such as Blood Meridian and No Country for Old Men by Cormac McCarthy.
Texas
7

162528-)
One character in this play tells a man "real love isn't ambivalent," which turns out to be a quote from a "bestselling paperback novel" set in the deep South. When addressing a man who traces his lineage to the Bayeux Tapestry, a character in this play often repeats the refrain "The Great Work Begins." Another character in this play has hallucinations about being guided in Antarctica by Mr. Lies. Hannah sells her home in order to find her son and her (*) Valium-addicted daughter-in-law living in Brooklyn in this play. A man in this play lies and claims his illness is liver cancer and later dies after Ethel Rosenberg sings to him. In this play, Louis begins a relationship with the Mormon lawyer Joe after leaving Prior Walter, who had just been diagnosed with AIDS. For 10 points, name this "Gay Fantasia on National Themes" by Tony Kushner.
Angels in America [anti-prompt on Millennium Approaches or Perestroika alone; accept either if said with Angels in America] Bonuses:
7

162529-)
A man claims that the "the calm, / cool face" of one of these places asked him for a kiss in "Suicide's Note." After leaving one of these locations, the speaker of another poem feels compelled to shout "Life is Fine!" In "Lament over Love," a woman claims that she is going to one of these places to think about a man. The speaker of a poem recounts building a hut by one of these places so that he may be "lulled to sleep." "Lynched boys" once hung near one of these locations that coats the tongue of another poem's speaker, who notes that the "evil poison" of a (*) "bitter" one of these places poisons his blood. The speaker of another poem claims that "when the dawns were young" he bathed at one of these places. That speaker ultimately claims that his "soul has grown deep" like one of these locations. For 10 points, identify this type of waterway that "The Negro Speaks of," a frequent image in poems by Langston Hughes.
rivers [accept "The Negro Speaks of Rivers," "The Bitter River"; accept Euphrates, Congo, Nile, or Mississippi, as those are the ones mentioned by name in Hughes' poetry]
7

162550-)
A professor in this story bad mouths a colleague to the son of his old friend, who does not know that the colleague holds the advantage in their "professional warfare." After observing the death of a lizard, one character in this story wonders "Am I awake? Have I my senses?" A character in this story recounts the tale of an Indian prince sending a deadly gift to Alexander the Great before offering another character a (*) silver vase. In this story, a man refuses to look out of a window after seeing an insect die when it flies next to a woman. This story begins with a young man moving into the palace of an old Paduan noble. Lisabetta unites the lovers in this story by showing Giovanni a secret path to the Doctor's garden. For 10 points, name this Nathaniel Hawthorne short story about the lovely Beatrice who becomes as poisonous as the plants she tended to.
"Rappaccini's Daughter"
7

162573-)
A poem by this author warns "No memory of having starred / Atones for later disregard / Or keeps the end from being hard." That poem by this author is about Abishag, "the picture pride of Hollywood." Another poem by this author opens with a woman taking a "doubtful step" and "Looking back over her shoulder at some fear" while descending a staircase to meet her husband, who "saw her.../Before she saw him." The speaker of another poem by this man claims to have "(*) looked down the saddest city lane" and "outwalked the furthest city light." In another poem by this man, the speaker's horse "gives his harness bells a shake" and the speaker of that poem has "miles to go before I sleep." For 10 points, name this American poet of "Acquainted With the Night" and "Stopping by Woods on a Snowy Evening."
Robert Frost (The first two sentences refer to the poem "Provide, Provide.")
7

162589-)
One character in this play displays his jealousy towards his brother Sam who recently joined the navy before dancing to a record with his girlfriend, Florence. Another character in this play is offered a job to make weekly reports on Dr. Brenner while assisting him in making poison gas. At the end of this play, a man exclaims "Christ, cut us up to little pieces." In this play, Edna threatens to leave her husband for an old friend, Ben Haas, during an argument in which she reveals their furniture has been (*) repossessed. A character with a glass eye gives a speech comparing communists to the "bogey man" after almost being silenced by Fatt and a gunman in this play's final scene, which reveals that the title character was found dead. Cab drivers attempt to strike for better pay in, for 10 points, what play by Clifford Odets?
Waiting for Lefty
7

162627-)
In a short story by this author, Pennifeather is cleared of murdering his uncle when a box supposedly containing Chateau-Margaux turns out to contain the corpse of that uncle, Barnabas Shuttlesworthy, prompting "Old Charley Goodfellow" to confess to murdering him. This author of "'Thou Art the Man'" wrote another short story in which a high rock named after the Bessop family turns out to be the "bishop's hostel." That story begins with (*) William Legrand finding a shiny "scarabaeus" with spots that look like a "death's-head." The narrator of another short story by this author asks "why will you say I am mad?," kills an old man whose "pale blue eye" distresses him, and hides the body under the floorboards. For 10 points, name this author of "The Gold-Bug" and "The Tell-Tale Heart."
Edgar Allan Poe
7

162629-)
In a story set in this region, Father Roubeau discourages Grace Bentham from leaving her husband Edwin and eloping with Clyde Wharton. That story, "The Priestly Prerogative", is collected with 8 other stories set in this region by an author who wrote another story set here whose protagonist continually makes a mental note of how he's traveling four miles an hour and ignores the advice from a man in Sulphur Creek. A man from Plumtree, Tennessee named Sam (*) McGee dies near Lake Lebarge in this region in a poem by Robert Service. In a story set in this location, a man unsuccessfully tries to squeeze his dog to death before accepting his fate of being unable to perform the title action. The collection "The Son of the Wolf" is set in, for 10 points, what notoriously cold region, also the setting of Jack London's story, "To Build a Fire?"
Yukon [anti-prompt on specific cities, likes Dawson]
7

162661-)
This character's talent at baking cakes is recounted to Kate and Eula at the beginning of the novel in which she appears. This character calls fear something "invented by someone that never had the fear." following a section of a novel in which she acknowledges that one of her children "is my cross and he will be my salvation." One character stares at her without speaking because "his heart too full for words" after considering leaving her to go earn (*) three dollars with his brother. This character is said to have "coddled and petted" her son Jewel that was the product of an affair with Reverend Whitfield. Two holes are poked into her head by her son Vardaman who repeatedly calls her a fish. Cash builds a coffin for, for 10 points, what matriarch of the Bundren family in William Faulkner's novel As I Lay Dying?
Addie Bundren [accept Mrs. Bundren or any answer implying that she's the mother of the Bundren family; prompt on Bundren since there are plenty of characters in this novel with that surname]
7

162671-)
One of this author's characters imagines the title substance being pumped from her stomach, and relates it to her college suitemate's suicide attempt. The plot of that novel mirrors the Chappaquiddick Incident, as The Senator kills Kelly Kelleher in a car accident. Another novel by this author replaces the names of real-life people with names such as "The Athlete" and "The Playwright" in Blonde, which fictionalizes the life of Marilyn Monroe. A golden car painted with phrases such as "DONE BY CRAZY WOMAN DRIVER" and "Man the flying (*) saucers" is featured in a story by this author. In this author's most anthologized story, Connie reluctantly gets in a car with the devilish and supernatural Arnold Friend. For 10 points, name this prolific author of the novella Black Water, who also wrote the short story "Where Are You Going, Where Have You Been?"
Joyce Carol Oates
7

162689-)
In one book, this poem is said to possess a "fierce loathing" while the author compares it to a more pensive poem by its author whose speaker seeks "the origin and course Of love." Elizabeth Bishop suggested that poem takes place in Key West given the possible Cuban influence on its central event. One "plot" of this poem occurs in a bedroom with a "dresser of deal" that contains a sheet to cover a woman's "horny feet." Critics such as Helen (*) Vendler note the thematic turn at the end of this poem's first stanza, which states "Let be be finale of seem," and is mirrored in the last stanza by the statement "Let the lamp affix its beam." This poem opens with a call for a muscular man to "whip" up "concupiscent curds" in the kitchen. For 10 points, identify this poem about a funeral written by Wallace Stevens that opens with "Call the roller of big cigars."
"The Emperor of Ice-Cream"
7

162711-)
In Ernest Hemingway's short story "The Three-Day Blow," Nick Adams and Bill discuss the merits of GK Chesterton and an author with this surname. That author with this surname wrote about a young schoolmaster who falls in love with Miss Desart, despite his elderly colleague's affection for her in his novel Mr. Perrin and Mr. Traill. Another author with this surname wrote a novel opening with the wedding of the protagonist's son Conrad and before the latter is killed by a (*) falling helmet. In that novel by an author with last name, Theodore marries Isabella after discovering he is the true owner of the title location instead of Manfred. For 10 points identify, this last name shared by Hugh and the author of the gothic novel The Castle of Otranto, Horace.
Walpole [accept Hugh Walpole or Horace Walpole]
7

162718-)
In one poem by this author, a man "took the draught of bitterness himself/ and lightly quaffed" after pouring his guest a glass of wine and himself a glass of wormwood. A character created by this poet is compared to Roland as he "stood there in the middle of the road" after climbing a hill to drink a jug. In another poem by this author, the narrator says that he will come "out of the grave" to "quench the kiss/that flames upon" his forehead. This poet of "Mr. (*) Flood's Party" commands the title figure of another work to "Go to the western gate" in a poem from his collection "Children of the Night." Another character created by this poet is noted to "love the Medici/Albeit he had never seen one" while "He wept that he ever was born." This poet also described a man "rich--yes, richer than a king" going home to "put a bullet through his head." For 10 points, name this poet of "Luke Havergal," "Miniver Cheevy," and "Richard Cory".
Edwin Arlington Robinson
7

162725-)
In a 2014 New York Times article, Daniel Mendelsohn argues that Aristophanes The Frogs is ultimately about this concept after alluding to the section where Dionysus says Aeschylus will save the city. Critic Frank Kermode argued that objects that are part of this concept are "granted" "an almost rabbinical minuteness of comment and speculation." In a book titled after this term, "people who teach interpretation" are attacked for their Sophistry and the author claims "Originality must compound with (*) inheritance". This term titles that book where the author decries the so-called "School of Resentment" and was written by Harold Bloom. Often dismissed as overly focused on the works of White Men, for 10 points, what concept generally describes the revered works of European-derived art and literature?
Western Canon [prompt on partial answers such as "The (Literary) Canon" or The Great Books]
7

162741-)
The protagonist of this story lies down on the couch due to the smell of jonquils and thinks of her "modern, thrilling friends." Earlier, that character blames "idiotic civilization" for the fact that she cannot express emotion without being "drunk and disorderly." In this story, a character cannot help but fall in love with "beautiful women who had something strange about them." A poet in this story agrees to write a play for the Norman Knights, and later remarks that the line "Why must it be the Tomato Soup?" is "dreadfully eternal." When a guest is leaving in this story, the protagonist believes that her (*) husband Harry's lips say "I adore you." At the end of this story, the main character cries "Oh, what is going to happen now?" when staring at a pear-tree, which she is compared to by Pearl Fulton. Bertha Mason loses the title feeling in, for 10 points, what story written by Katherine Mansfield?
"Bliss"
7

162747-)
The protagonist of one of this author's novels debates with Nick Meade about whether fascism is the root of evil after temporarily leaving his professorship at Columbia in order to join the Merchant Marines. Another of this author's characters, in an attempt to increase his sexual energy, puts himself into an "orgone" box. In that novel, the protagonist meets "the cutest little Mexican girl" while riding a bus. This author of (*) The Sea is My Brother and Vanity of Duluoz wrote a novel in which the protagonist picks cotton with Terry and Ricky in Sabinal before going to Paterson for Christmas. In that novel by him, the protagonist travels to Denver where he meets Carlo Marx who was inspired by Allen Ginsberg. Sal Paradise appears in, for 10 points, what author's novel, On the Road?
Jack Kerouac
7

162757-)
In a story titled for this war, a “self-made man” named Mr. Alsuga attempts to teach “Old Tyme” whittling skills to combat gang vandalism. In that story, the founder of Burn’n’Learn pokes the narrator with a cigar while discussing investing in a business based on this war. In a story set during this war, a soldier looks for a moment at his “unsteadfast footing” before fixing his eyes on a piece of “dancing driftwood” in swirling waters. A (*) theme park based on this war is “in Bad Decline” in a story by George Saunders. The protagonist of a story set during this war travels thirty miles to see his wife after dodging bullet fire in a river. In a twist, that story set during this war ends when it turns out that a saboteur’s escape saga was actually a daydream shortly before his hanging. For 10 points, what war is the setting of Ambrose Bierce’s “An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge?”
American Civil War &lt;Short Fiction, JC&gt;
7

162773-)
Innovations within this industry in the Caribbean are discussed at the beginning of the essay “Cultural Identity and Diaspora” by Stuart Hall. The “feeling of strangeness” that is characteristic of workers in this industry, as described by Luigi Pirandello, is cited in an essay by Walter Benjamin (“VALL-tur BEN-yuh-meen”). This industry’s products are presented as exemplars of Weimar-era attitudes in a 1947 study by (*) Siegfried Kracauer (“ZEEK-freet CRACK-hour”). Analysis of this industry by Laura Mulvey resulted in her theory of the “male gaze.” The death of André Bazin (“bah-ZANN”), a leading theorist in this industry, occasioned a revival of The Rules of the Game. Theorists within this industry postulated a figure who controls all aspects of creation and production called an auteur (“oh-TURR”). For 10 points, name this industry in which François Truffaut (“true-FOH”) worked.
film industry [accept equivalents for film such as cinema, motion picture, moving picture, or movies; accept art film; accept Hollywood; prompt on media; do not accept or prompt on “television” or “art”] &lt;Social Science: Sociology, WA&gt;
7

162794-)
This story, which draws on an anecdote that the author heard from a man named Ben Coon, begins three of its sentences with the folksy phrase “thish-yer,” including one sentence about a “fifteen-minute nag.” The author of this story “clawed” it “back into a civilized language” after discovering a French translation by making a literal, word-for-word re-translation into English. This story’s narrator gives odds of “two-and-a-half” against the survival of Parson Walker’s wife and loses a (*) 40-dollar bet when his opponent cheats by melting quail shot into lead and pouring it down a certain creature’s throat. This story begins by discussing a conversation with Simon Wheeler, who in turn relates a story about Jim Smiley and his pet Dan’l Webster. For 10 points, name this Mark Twain short story about a leaping amphibian.
“The Celebrated Jumping Frog of Calaveras County” [do not accept or prompt on partial answers] &lt;Short Fiction, WA&gt;
7

162810-)
The italicized seventh section of a poem contrasts the “soothing” of this entity with the fact that “my love soothes not me.” Another poem sees “the calyx of death’s bounty” in this entity and tells the audience, “This fabulous shadow only [this entity] keeps.” Walt Whitman’s “Out of the Cradle Endlessly Rocking” was originally titled “A Word Out of” this entity. A “wild call” from this entity is heard in a poem whose speaker pairs this entity with (*) “the lonely… sky.” This natural entity is described as “retreating, to the breath / of the night-wind” and as having a “melancholy, long withdrawing roar” in a poem that proclaims “Ah, love, let us be true / To one another!” For 10 points, John Masefield wrote “I must go down to” what entity, which is described as “calm tonight” in the opening of Matthew Arnold’s “Dover Beach?”
the sea [prompt on waves or surf or troughs by asking “what’s the general body?”; prompt on the ocean or equivalents by asking “what word is used in the poems?”; accept “A Word Out of the Sea” or “Sea Fever”; do not accept or prompt on “water”] (The second sentence is about “At Melville’s Tomb.”) &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JC&gt;
7

162823-)
A character in this play defines kindness and cruelty together as “the teaching emotion. And what is gained is loss.” That character in this play asks another “is this the thing in the world you’d fight for?” before saying “this is probably the first time in your life you’ve had anything more trying to face than changing your cat’s toilet box.” A man in this play claims to have been a homosexual for exactly eleven days. A character in this play describes his neighbor as “God who is a (*) colored queen who wears a kimono and plucks his eyebrows.” To avoid being attacked by his landlady’s dog, a character in this play poisons the dog with a hamburger bun. A character in this play impales himself on another character’s knife after starting a fight on a bench. Jerry and Peter chat in Central Park in, for 10 points, what Edward Albee play?
Zoo Story &lt;Drama, EL&gt;
7

162837-)
A woman of this first name writes an advice column under the name “Mrs. Green Thumb” and is born despite her mother never knowing she was pregnant; that woman is the protagonist of Carol Shields’s The Stone Diaries. In an opening scene set in Switzerland, a woman with this first name remarks on the number of hotels nearby and dismisses complaints about being unable to get “American candy” made by her younger brother Randolph, who later falls asleep and causes a (*) boat ride to be cancelled. Another woman with this first name repeats “You always look so cool” to confess her love to a man who attended St. Olaf College, and says of her daughter that “the best thing a girl can be” is a “beautiful little fool.” For 10 points, give this first name shared by a Henry James title character who dies of “Roman Fever” and the wife of Tom Buchanan in The Great Gatsby.
Daisy [accept Daisy Goodwill Flett; accept Daisy Miller; accept Daisy Buchanan; prompt on Annie (but roll your eyes because the novella is literally called Daisy Miller)] &lt;Long Fiction, JC&gt;
7

162846-)
Alfred Habegger coined the term “scissored deletions” regarding three texts by this author that contain lines like “One drop more from the gash that stains your Daisy’s bosom – then would you believe?” The first verse of a poem by this author stutters the lines “Did you not / His notice instant is – .” This author, who was profiled in My Wars Are Laid Away in Books, wrote a poem about a creature that leaves the speaker (*) “Zero at the Bone.” She wrote several riddle poems to her friends, as well as three letters to a mysterious “Master.” This author’s correspondence with Thomas Wentworth Higginson resulted in Higginson’s eventual posthumous editorship and publication of her poetry. For 10 points, name this author whose many letters contained poems such as “A narrow Fellow in the Grass” and “I heard a Fly buzz – when I died –.”
Emily Dickinson &lt;Misc. Lit, JC&gt;
7

162861-)
This author ends a poem with the lines, “the Book on the writing table; / the hand in the breast-pocket” after quoting Daniel Webster about the “enterprise” of “Marriage.” This poet muses on the irony of C. J. Poole putting up danger signs in a poem set in a peaceful town with “eight stranded whales to look at” in which “Durer would have seen a reason for living.” After taking a trip to Washington state, this author wrote a poem comparing the glacier on Mount Rainier to “An (*) Octopus” “of ice.” A poem by this author lists “the base- / ball fan” and “the statistician” among things that “we cannot understand.” That poem by this author calls ideal members of a certain profession “literalists of / the imagination” who create “imaginary gardens with real toads in them.” For 10 points, name this poet who wrote “The Steeple-Jack” and declared, “I, too, dislike it” in “Poetry.”
Marianne Moore &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JC&gt;
7

162867-)
H. L. Mencken’s 1933 review of this book compares its author to William Jennings Bryan. Don Bartlett’s translation of a series that shares its title with this book uses such titles as A Man in Love and Boyhood Island. This book begins as a bildungsroman (“BILL-doongs-ro-MAHN”) set “In the House of My Parents” before outlining philosophical views such as “Causes of the Collapse.” Its title was borrowed to title a series of six autobiographical novels by the (*) Norwegian author Karl Knausgård (“k’NOUSE-gor”). The second chapter of this book describes “years of studying and suffering” in which the author failed to enter the Academy of Fine Arts in Vienna. Sylvia Plath’s “Daddy” describes its title figure as a “man in black” with a “look” like this book. It proposes the concept of Lebensraum (“LAY-binz-rowm”). For 10 points, name this autobiographical book by Adolf Hitler.
Mein Kampf [or My Struggle or Min Kamp] &lt;Misc. Lit, WA&gt;
7

162872-)
After running away from Walker, Pearl comments that “things in [this state] sometimes present the odor of cat piss” while holding her baby and pounding gin and tonics in a bar in Joy Williams’s The Changeling. In a play set in this US state, the owner of a factory shoots and kills the lector as he reads the dueling scene from Anna Karenina. In a novel set in this state, the daughter of Leafy compares bees (*) pollinating a pear tree to love, though her idealistic image is ruined by her tepid marriage to Logan Killicks. During a hurricane in that novel set in this state, a rabid dog bites Tea Cake as he attempts to save Janie from drowning. For 10 points, name this setting of Anna in the Tropics and Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Florida &lt;Misc. Lit, JC&gt;
7

162878-)
A section titled for “flaming” examples of these objects ends a novel in which a woman repeatedly enigmatically says “I had a dream,” referring to a vision about becoming one of these objects. The teenage narrator of another novel remarks on the tenacity of one of these objects in saying that it “likes poor people.” Yeong-hye (“yung-heh”) believes that she is one of these objects in a novel by Han Kang (“hahn kahng”). A novel titled for these objects climaxes when Sergeant McShane makes a marriage proposal to (*) Katie, who insists that her piano-playing son Neeley go to high school instead of her more eager daughter. One of these objects “of heaven” appears between several tenements despite the New York milieu, symbolizing the strength of Francie Nolan’s immigrant family. For 10 points, a Betty Smith novel is titled for what sort of object that “grows in Brooklyn?”
trees [accept “Flaming Trees” or A Tree Grows in Brooklyn; prompt on plants; do not accept or prompt on “vegetables”] (The Han Kang novel is The Vegetarian.) &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
7

162887-)
This story opens as a woman munches on Hot Mix cereal while lamenting that her cousin’s husband fell for “An English girl, half his age.” This story’s protagonist gives up on wearing a robe with her lover when he initially makes no comment, then complains that she’s blocking his view of her legs, and is told “nothing you’ll ever need to worry about” when she asks about a city with a red box around it in The Economist. The favorite place of a man in this story is the (*) Mapparium at the Christian Science center. Its protagonist is asked to wear a silver cocktail dress that she bought at Filene’s by the seven-year-old boy she babysits, who asks her to quiz him on world capitals. Dev uses a Charles River jog as an excuse to visit and sleep with Miranda in this story. Rohin defines the title word as “loving somebody you don’t know” in, for 10 points, what story by Jhumpa Lahiri?
“Sexy” &lt;Short Fiction, EL&gt;
7

162904-)
This play’s setting is described as “comfortable and well-ordered if it were not for a number of indestructible contradictions to this state of being.” A character in this play says that his sister is the first person to “successfully brainwash” herself and calls her the chair of the Committee on Unending Agitation. A character in this play tells another character to call in sick with the flu because it’s a “respectable” disease that (*) “white people get.” A man in this play stands on a table while giving a speech with the line “Flaming spear! Hot damn!” that is interrupted by his sister yelling “Ocomogosiay.” Its central family is offered money by Mr. Lindner to not move to Clybourne Park, and includes a man who squanders his sister’s med school money when Willy Harris runs away with his liquor store investment. For 10 points, the Younger family features in what Lorraine Hansberry play?
A Raisin in the Sun &lt;Drama, EL&gt;
7

162906-)
These objects are said to have “forgotten their Eastern origin” in a poem which states that they “are everywhere in this my New England.” These objects are repeatedly described by the lines “False blue / white / purple” in that poem by Amy Lowell. A dirge in a poem titled for these objects begins “Come lovely and soothing death / Undulate around the world.” The sixteenth and final section of a poem titled for these objects begins “Passing the visions, passing the night” and states that these objects, a bird, and (*) Venus are “twined with the chant of my soul / There in the fragrant pines and the cedars dusk and dim.” These objects title a poem whose line “the great star early droop’d in the western sky in the night” expresses the same theme as the author’s “O Captain, My Captain.” A Walt Whitman elegy for Abraham Lincoln is titled after, for 10 points, what purple flowers?
lilacs [accept “Lilacs” or “When Lilacs Last in the Dooryard Bloom’d”; prompt on flowers or plants] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
7

162931-)
A narrator speculates that some of these things may encode a “departed prophet” and likens them to “hieroglyphic marks” while observing a man lying in state. Some of these things are likened to a “Cretan labyrinth” in the opening of a chapter in which the narrator awakens with a man’s arm thrown over him. Fayaway only has “narrow bands” of these things, but Kory-Kory has “three broad longitudinal stripes” of them. A narrator first describes several of these things as (*) “blackish looking squares” belonging to his bedfellow. These things are found on the heads of most of the Typees, as well as on a “purplish face” that a narrator first sees in the Spouter-Inn. A skilled harpooner is described as a “clean, comely looking cannibal” who is covered in these. For 10 points, what artistic patterns feature on the bodies of many Polynesians like Queequeg?
tattoos [accept Queequeg’s tattoos] &lt;Long Fiction, WA&gt;
7

162954-)
Two characters in this play argue about whether the Duke of Wellington was Catholic after one of them claims that only a Catholic could defeat Napoleon. A character in this play jokes about his brother’s habit of reciting Ernest Dowson’s “Cynara” to fat prostitutes and denies his own poetic talent, saying that “stammering is the native eloquence of us fog people.” A character in this play wanted to be either a nun or a concert (*) pianist, though she bemoans her arthritic hands. The family of a character in this play accuses him of outwardly worrying about poorhouses so that doctors will give him cheap recommendations; that character’s penny pinching leads him to trust Doc Hardy, who diagnoses Edmund with consumption. For 10 points, name this Eugene O’Neill play in which Mary’s morphine addiction rankles the Tyrone family.
Long Day’s Journey Into Night &lt;Drama, EL&gt;
7

162966-)
A work “written under duress” by this author ends with “the journalist” shoving a naked Englishman out of his car, calling him a “twisted pigfucker.” A fictionalized version of this author describes “the energy of a whole generation coming to a head in a long fine flash” and pictures himself “riding the crest of a high and beautiful wave.” The media frenzy around a gang rape accusation against a motorcycle gang opens a profile by this author that became his book (*) Hell’s Angels. This author first worked with illustrator Ralph Steadman on a piece about the spectacle of horse racing titled “The Kentucky Derby is Decadent and Depraved.” He fictionalized himself as Raoul Duke taking drugs traveling to Nevada in articles that, like his coverage of Richard Nixon’s 1972 campaign, were serialized in Rolling Stone. For 10 points, name this “gonzo journalist” who wrote Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas.
Hunter S. Thompson &lt;Misc. Lit, JC&gt;
7

162981-)
This author was labeled as “a penis with a thesaurus” in a David Foster Wallace essay that calls this man a “Champion Literary Phallocrat.” That essay centers on one of this author’s novels whose climactic scene sees Ben Trumbull’s prostate operation leave him impotent. One of this man’s characters claims that a woman’s beauty lies in her spine as he watches beachgoers from his lifeguard’s chair. Another of this man’s characters accuses his wife Janice of deliberately drowning their baby (*) Rebecca before running back to his former mistress Ruth. This author created Sammy, who quits his cashier job after his boss chides Queenie for wearing a bikini at the title supermarket. A former high school basketball star is described in this author’s books about him “Rich” and “at Rest.” For 10 points, name this author of “A&amp;P” who created Harry Angstrom in books like Rabbit, Run!
John Updike (The first book is Toward the End of Time.) &lt;Short Fiction, EL&gt;
7

162995-)
An author of this ethnicity wrote that “wild tongues can’t be tamed, they can only be cut out” and coined the term “linguistic terrorism.” A character of this ethnicity questions his faith after Samuel tells him the story of the golden carp, and compares his mother and father to the moon and the sea, respectively. A narrator of this ethnicity describes a girl who says “we are tired of being beautiful” after learning to walk in heels. In a novel by an author of this ethnicity, the death of an (*) owl familiar causes the death of the title caretaker of Antonio. Another novel by a writer of this ethnicity consists of a series of 44 vignettes in which Lucy, Rachel, and Nenny grow up in the title Chicago neighborhood with Esperanza. For 10 points, give this ethnicity of Bless Me, Ultima author Rudolfo Anaya and House on Mango Street author Sandra Cisneros.
Mexican-American [or Chicano or Chicana; prompt on American or Latino or Latina or other less specific answers] (The first clue refers to Gloria Anzaldúa.) &lt;Misc. Lit, ND&gt;
7

163006-)
This poet used a line by Giorgio de Chirico (“JOR-joh day KEE-ree-koh”) about the “mysterious language” of a “broken statue of God” as an epigram for her poem in which she holds in her eyes unseen waves that “the ghost of Böcklin grieves” for. This author wrote about chanting “Thor is angry: boom boom boom” during a hurricane in a poem that ends “no frown of mine will betray the company I keep.” In that poem, this author asks her mother if she sees the titular Disquieting Muses. This poet described rocking “shut / as a seashell” in a poem that tells (*) “Herr Doktor” and “Herr Lucifer” “Beware. / Beware.” That poem by her calls death “an art, like everything else” and ends “I rise with my red hair / And eat men like air.” A “Night Ride” that this poet took on the horse Ariel was described in a poem by her husband Ted Hughes. For 10 points, name this author of “Lady Lazarus.”
Sylvia Plath &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, EL&gt;
7

163019-)
The first stanza of this poem responds to, among other things, a line from Alexander Pope’s Essay on Man that speaks of learning “to sail / Spread the thin oar, and catch the driving gale.” This poem was inspired by a cross-section that the author viewed in Roget’s (“ro-ZHAY’s”) Bridgewater Treatise according to an essay in The Atlantic Monthly, a magazine that its author helped found. This poem borrows a phrase from Wordsworth’s “The World is Too Much With Us” to describe an instrument from which “a clearer note is born.” It delivers its central metaphor for personal (*) growth by imploring its subject to “leave thy low-vaulted past” and leave relics of that past “by life’s unresting sea.” This poem commands the author’s soul to “build thee more stately mansions” in admiration of an abode that it likens to a “ship of pearl.” For 10 points, name this Oliver Wendell Holmes poem about a cephalopod.
“The Chambered Nautilus” &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
7

163031-)
A character in this musical freezes with his hands on his nipples while two other characters debate over word choices like “I like my parents.” This musical’s protagonist improvises the line “Grab a scoop at À La Mode” while making up a story based on a bowl of apples on a dinner table. In the final number of its first act, videos are projected onto the stage of people waving signs reading “#YouWillBeFound.” In this musical, a boy who had signed the title character’s (*) cast in the computer lab points out that, rather than falling out of a tree, the title character let go in a suicide attempt. A letter reading “It turns out today won’t be a wonderful day after all” lights up the stage in this musical as the title character admits he invented a friendship with Connor Murphy. For 10 points, name this 2017 musical about a socially-anxious high school student who is catapulted into popularity after an acquaintance kills himself.
Dear Evan Hansen &lt;Other Art: Misc Auditory, JC&gt;
7

163047-)
This city is the setting of a novel that follows Lea, a “Lifer” with the genetic ability to live forever as long as she stays healthy and successful in her career. This city is the setting of Rachel Heng’s Suicide Club, as well as a novel in which Lianne periodically sees a performance artist in a business suit suspending himself upside down and in midair. In another novel set here, Russian hackers try to take down a server farm owned by Gabriel Ice. Keith abandons his career and family to play professional poker after surviving the framing (*) incident of a novel set in this city; the same incident here serves as the climax of Thomas Pynchon’s Bleeding Edge. A key left inside a vase leads the precocious Oskar Schell on a scavenger hunt around this city in Jonathan Foer’s novel Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close. For 10 points, name this city, the setting of Don DeLillo’s Falling Man.
New York City [or NYC] &lt;Long Fiction, JC&gt;
7

163049-)
The speaker refers to a quote about this substance after discussing the “tears of last night” in “Nana’s Lied” by Bertolt Brecht. A line referring to this substance appears at the end of a stanza that begins by wondering about the “beautiful Roman” Flora. Dante Gabriel Rossetti coined a new word to translate that line about this substance, which is from a section of a poem titled “The Testament.” Several families trapped by this substance read from an almanac to pass time in an (*) “idyll” by John Greenleaf Whittier. The “Ballad of the Ladies of Times Past” by François Villon (“fran-SWAH vee-YON”) contains a line referring to this substance “of yesteryear.” The speaker has “miles to go before I sleep” in another poem titled for this substance. For 10 points, identify this weather phenomenon amidst which the speaker “stops by woods” in a Robert Frost poem.
snow [accept “where are the snows of yesteryear?” or “Snow-Bound”] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
7

163059-)
In one part of this novel, a stakeholder for the state college meets a man who accidentally impregnated his own daughter. The protagonist of this novel gets sent downtown to talk about “The Woman Question” after receiving a leg chain from Brother Tarp. This novel’s narrator works under Kimbro and (*) Lucius Brockway while at Liberty Paints after being expelled from college by Dr. Bledsoe. This novel opens with blindfolded black youths donning boxing gloves and pummeling each other in a “battle royal.” For 10 points, name this novel whose unnamed narrator notes how his skin color makes others refuse to see him, written by Ralph Ellison.
Invisible Man [do NOT accept or prompt on “The Invisible Man”] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
6

163067-)
In a collection titled after one of these events, the author describes his wife sipping coffee in a “mad, execution uniform” in the poem “The Blue Flannel Suit.” A work titled after one of these events features an interrogation scene with questions like “Is 846 necessary or possible?” and “Why did the chicken cross the road?” Ted Hughes wrote a poetry collection dedicated to (*) Sylvia Plath about the letters of one of these events. At the end of a play titled for one of these events, McCann and Goldberg take away a blabbering Stanley Webber. Emily Webb chooses to relive one of these events after her death in Our Town. For 10 points, name this event that titles a Harold Pinter play and that marks a day Emily turned 12 years old.
birthday party [accept obvious equivalents; accept Birthday Letters; accept 12th Birthday] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Misc Literature &gt;
6

163075-)
The speaker of one poem by this author says that “in a difficult hour,” they wouldn’t “trade the memory of this night for food.” A different poem by this author mentions a time when they had to “burn up the chairs/ and sit on the floor.” In addition to the sonnet “Love is not all,” this poet wrote a sonnet telling the geese to “gabble and hiss.” Another of this author’s poems is about a mother who spent all night making the (*) “clothes of a king’s son” before she froze to death. The sonnet “Euclid alone has looked on beauty bare” and “The Ballad of the Harp Weaver” are by, for 10 points, what author who penned the line “My candle burns at both ends” in her collection A Few Figs from Thistles.
Edna St. Vincent Millay [or Nancy Boyd] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;  BONUSES:
6

163076-)
A man in this poem who “wanders and watches with eager ears” later startles “the pigeons from their perch.” In this poem, the “watchful night-wind” seems to whisper “‘All is well!’” The title character of this poem sees “the meeting-house windows, blank and bare/ Gaze at him with a spectral glare.” A bay in this poem contains the (*) “phantom ship” “Somerset,” and its title event takes place on “the eighteenth of April, in Seventy-Five.” A friend in this poem is told to “hang a lantern” in the “North-Church-tower, as a signal light / One if by land, and two if by sea.” For 10 points, name this poem about the “midnight message” of the title American revolutionary, written by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow.
“Paul Revere’s Ride” &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
6

163092-)
In one novel set in this state, a family gets in a fight with the Forresters over a bear named Slewfoot, and the protagonist Jody Baxter adopts a fawn named Flag after shooting the bear’s mother. In another novel set in this state, Ava and Kiwi Bigtree agree to sell the title estate. This state is the setting of a Karen Russell novel and Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings’s The Yearling. In this state, (*) Phoebe Watson is told a story about leaving her husband Logan Killicks and needing to shoot her husband for contracting rabies after a hurricane. Tea Cake is from this state’s Eatonville which is the setting of a novel about Janie Crawford. For 10 points, name this state, the setting of Swamplandia! and Their Eyes Were Watching God.
Florida &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
6

163112-)
One character in this story remembers his ancestor being pictured in Dante’s Inferno and is repeatedly asked the question, “Why tarriest thou?” when he doesn’t meet another at an appointed time. The protagonist of this story thinks that he sees a small orange lizard violently die when a drop of water hits its head. In this story, the title character calls a shrub with (*) purple blossoms that sits next to a broken fountain her “sister.” Professor Baglioni gives the protagonist a silver vase containing an antidote that kills the title character when she drinks it. For 10 points, name this short story about Giovanni falling in love with the poisonous Beatrice, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.
“Rappaccini’s Daughter” &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short-Form Fiction &gt;
6

163120-)
In a work centering around this action, spies and astrologers believe that they can access a company through stone lions and a latrine called Qaphqa. After Trina does this action in McTeague, Trina’s mother announces that Trina and McTeague are going to marry. After successfully doing this action, thanks to her friend in Paris, a maid holds a (*) dinner for Martine and Philippa. For seventy-seven years, this action has been avoided by Old Man Warner where the performer of this action is stoned to death -- a fate that befalls Tessie Hutchinson. For 10 points, name this action central to a story by Borges set in Babylon and a story by Shirley Jackson.
; winning the lottery [accept being chosen by the lottery (in Babylon) or being drawn from the black box; prompt on just lottery; prompt on answers describing getting money with “How did they get the money?”; prompt on winning money with “How did they win the money?”; prompt on being stoned/killed before mentioned with “What did the person do to cause them to be (stoned/killed)?”] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
6

163122-)
In a play by this author, a character asks “What’s a cue?” when her teacher explains that she needs to add more feeling to the character of Cleopatra. In another play by this author, a woman wants to use the money from a business deal to restore her old family estate Lionnet. This rival of (*) Mary McCarthy wrote a play in which Leo steals 88 thousand dollars of railroad bonds from a safe deposit box. In another play by this author, Mary Tilford accuses her teachers of having a lesbian affair. This author wrote a play about a land scheme that results in Regina letting her husband Horace die of a heart attack. For 10 points, name this playwright of The Children’s Hour and The Little Foxes.
Lillian (Florence) Hellman &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Drama &gt;
6

163131-)
The speaker of one poem by this author declares, “if equal affection cannot be / let the more loving one be me;” while he wrote another poem about a man who “cried when little children died in the streets.” The speaker of a poem by this author claims to be composed of “Eros” and “dust” before stating that he wishes to “show an affirming flame.” (*) Instructions like “prevent the dog from barking with a juicy bone” and “stop all the clocks” begin another poem by this author. In addition to writing “Epitaph on a Tyrant,” a speaker in one of this author’s poems claims “we must love one another or die” while sitting in “one of the dives / on Fifty-second Street.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Funeral Blues” and “September 1, 1939.”
W.H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
6

163141-)
The protagonist of this work notices a tiny spot of sun on an inkpot and earlier had taken a bite of the bread she was holding to show her happiness to a man who she was initially nervous meeting. A servant in this story asks a question about sandwich flags -- interrupting a character’s singing of “This Life is Weary.” In this story, one character distracts the protagonist by giving her (*) a hat with a black velvet ribbon. A Godber’s man details the tragic death of Scott in this story, and the protagonist later visits his house with a basket of food. Mrs. Sheridan orders extra canna lilies for the title event of this story, which Laura tries to cancel. For 10 points, name this Katherine Mansfield story about the title outdoor event.
“The Garden Party” &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short-Form Fiction &gt;
6

163162-)
One poem by this author compares the title creature to “God’s lioness” and describes “the child’s cry” that “melts in the wall.” The speaker of a poem by this author says that “I shut my eyes and all the world drops dead” and repeats the parenthetical phrase “I think I made you up inside my head.” The speaker of another poem by this author asks their (*) “enemy” if their “featureless, fine” face is terrifying, and tells “Herr God” and “Herr Lucifer” to “Beware,” since “I eat men like air.” This poet described the subject of one of her poems as a “man in black with a Meinkampf look.” For 10 points, name this American poet of the collection Ariel which includes her poems “Lady Lazarus” and “Daddy.”
Sylvia Plath &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
6

163182-)
This author wrote an essay describing placing the word Whim above the door post and argues to shun parents in an effort to counter the “doctrine of love” with a “doctrine of hatred.” That essay by this author argues against dragging around a “corpse of memory.” In another essay by this author, he asserts that “every end is a beginning” and that the first title construct was (*) the eye. In an essay by this author, he argues that the true mark of genius is being willing to believe in your own thoughts. That essay by this author claims, “to be great is to be misunderstood” and “foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.” For 10 points, name this Transcendentalist author of “Circles” and “Self-Reliance.”
Ralph Waldo Emerson &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Misc Literature &gt;
6

163219-)
The protagonist of one novel by this author breaks down while looking at “Bordando el Manto Terrestre” by Remedios Varo. Another novel by this author follows Zoyd Wheeler and his daughter Prairie looking for Prairie’s hippie mother Frenesi Gates. This author of (*) Vineland wrote a novel whose convoluted plot begins with Roger Mexico discovering the protagonist’s sexual activities can predict rocket strikes. This author created a character who links “Trystero” to a conspiracy after hearing it mentioned while watching The Courier’s Tragedy. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Oedipa Maas in The Crying of Lot 49 and Tyrone Slothrop in Gravity’s Rainbow.
Thomas Ruggles Pynchon Jr. &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
6

163225-)
In one story by this author, the Great Brakeman predicts the seven o’clock train that two students from St. Midas’ School arrive on. In another story by this author, the protagonist is blamed for the death of his wife because he locked her out of the house during a blizzard. This author created Mr. Washington, who tries to bribe God with a (*) gemstone. Helen fights her husband Charlie Wales for custody of their daughter Honoria in this author’s story “Babylon Revisited.” In a novel by this author, “Owl Eyes” is among the few attendants to a funeral for a West-Egg resident shot in a swimming pool by George Wilson. For 10 points, name this creator of Nick Carraway and author of The Great Gatsby.
Francis Scott (Key) Fitzgerald (Mr. Washington is from “The Diamond as Big as the Ritz”) &lt;Mitch McCullar | Short-Form Fiction&gt;
6

163248-)
This symbol titles an epic poem divided into “24 hours,” written by Louis Zukofsky. This symbol appears on a brooch along with the phrase “amor vincit omnia,” which is worn by a person who tells a story about a singing Christian boy who gets murdered by Jews. In one work, a man discovers this symbol along with some of Surveyor Pue’s documents in the attic of a (*) custom-house. In addition to being worn by the Prioress, a woman associated with this sign is married to Roger Chillingworth, but has a daughter with Reverend Dimmesdale, causing her to be shunned by the Puritans. For 10 points, give this letter worn by Hester Prynne, the title Scarlet Letter.
the letter A [prompt on scarlet letter with “What is the letter?” before “scarlet”] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Misc Lit &gt;
6

163261-)
One character in this novel gained several scars on his back from his time working as a waiter. Another character in this novel murders two nuns collecting shrimp and claims that one can acquire good luck by burying live puppies in cement. The protagonist of this novel remembers a moth “chattering away” against a light bulb at his birth and believes that he is the father of Maria’s son Kurt. (*) In this novel, the protagonist’s father chokes on a pin, after Nazis had earlier captured Jan Bronski. The protagonist of this novel finds the finger of Sister Dorothea in a field, stopped growing at the age of three, and can shatter glass with his voice. For 10 points, name this novel about Oskar Matzerath, written by Günter Grass.
The Tin Drum [or Die Blechtrommel] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
6

163288-)
This poet asked “Doth Pluto tell thee thou Shalt see the shade?” in a poem telling the addressee to “behold the wide extended skies.” This poet’s piety was praised in a poem quoting 21 Bible verses beginning “O come you pious youth” by Jupiter Hammon. A poem by this author mourns the “setting sun” that “shines no more” after the death of the title (*) “happy saint.” This poet of “An Address to the Atheist” wrote an elegy for George Whitfield and tells a “great chief” to let the “Goddess guide” him in hopes that “Columbia's arm prevail.” This poet opened another poem stating that “'Twas mercy brought me from my Pagan land.” For 10 points, name this author of “To His Excellency, General Washington,” an early African-American poet.
Phyllis Wheatley &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
6

163298-)
An “Oh-what-the-hell-let-him-believe-there-is” tone of voice is used by one character in this play when his wife denies the presence of a jail in the basement. One character in this play recalls a soldier offering him dry socks and dismisses any meaning in the wind tearing a tree down. In this play, Frank looks into the horoscope of a missing character and determines he disappeared on a (*) “favorable day.” This play ends with the patriarch of the central family shooting himself offstage after Anne reads her former lover’s suicide note. In this play, Larry kills himself when he finds his father Joe was responsible for the deaths of many pilots. For 10 points, name this play about the Keller family, written by Arthur Miller.
All My Sons &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
6

163317-)
One novel by this author ends with the protagonist crying during the funeral of a man he doesn’t know. After getting in a car accident, the protagonist of another novel by this author is arrested when police find his father’s revolver in the car. The Heraclitus loving title character of a third novel by this author moves to Mexico with the owner of the (*) eagle Caligula. This author wrote about Tommy Wilhelm in Seize the Day and created a character who fights over the custody of his daughter June with his ex-wife Madeleine in Herzog. This author created a title character who begins a novel by stating “I am an American, Chicago born.” For 10 points, name this author of The Adventures of Augie March.
Saul Bellow [or Solomon Bellows] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-form Literature &gt;
6

163327-)
This author wrote a travelogue detailing his visit to the Bandung Conference in The Color Curtain. The title character of one work by this author forges a note from Mr. Falk to check out a book by H.L. Mencken. This author wrote a book that ends after the title character is beaten up during a May Day Parade and kicked out of the (*) communist party. A novel by this author that describes Charlie’s Kitchen Shack was criticized in the essay “Everybody’s Protest Novel” by James Baldwin. This author of the autobiographical novel Black Boy wrote a novel about the trial of the protagonist for the murder of Mary Dalton. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Bigger Thomas in Native Son.
Richard (Nathaniel) Wright &lt; Mitch McCullar | Misc Literature &gt;
6

163342-)
One story by this author ends with a “bright boy” finding a fully clothed man lying on top of a bed at Hirsch’s boarding house. A character created by this author wonders why all the grasshoppers have turned black before (*) fishing for trout. In a story by this author, a recurring character is tied up by the hitmen Max and Al who are looking for the former boxer Ole Andreson. This author’s character Nick Adams appears in his short stories “The Big Two-Hearted River” and “The Killers.” For 10 points, name this American author who wrote about Santiago ending his dry-spell by catching a large Marlin in the short novel Old Man and the Sea.
Ernest (Miller) Hemingway &lt; Mitch McCullar | Short Fiction &gt;
6

163348-)
An author with these first two initials wrote a play in which six actors play dozens of characters from different families who all happen to own the same dining room furniture. That author with these first two initials wrote an epistolary play in which Andy and Melissa read letters from the last 50 years of their relationship. Another author with these first two initials noted “tomorrow a new walk is a new walk” at the end of a poem beginning “I went for a walk over the dunes again this morning.” The author of the plays The (*) Dining Room and Love Letters used these initials. The long poems Sphere and Tape for the Turn of the Year were written by a poet with these initials, whose colon-filled poems include “Corsons Inlet.” For 10 points, name these initials used by the playwright Gurney and the poet Ammons.
A. R.
9

163351-)
This character is cast as Mother Time in a school play in which her classmates play fairies and elves. Her father seems to see the ghost of this character’s swing beneath his favorite shagbark tree. This character receives the message “pada ata lane pad not ogo old wart alan ther tale feur far lant tal told” from a spirit who she encounters in a haunted barn. The fact that that message conceals the word “Atalanta” three times is one piece of evidence that Brian Boyd uses to argue that this character becomes a butterfly after her death. After a humiliating blind (*) date with Peter Provost, this character drowns herself, an event recounted in a 999-line poem by her father. For 10 points, name this daughter of John Shade in Pale Fire.
Hazel Shade [or Hazel Shade; prompt on “John Shade’s daughter”]
9

163355-)
A poet who also participated in this sport wrote an essay in his magazine Maintenant [“met”-NAH] claiming that his uncle, Oscar Wilde, had faked his own death. That poet, who was the lover of Mina Loy, is Arthur Cravan. Geek Love author Katherine Dunn also participated in this sport and wrote extensively on it. “Starting All Over Again,” “The Morest,” and “Ahab and Nemesis” are among the essays on this sport published in The New Yorker. A (*) Joyce Carol Oates book about this sport is simply titled On [This Sport]. The documentary When We Were Kings includes interviews with Norman Mailer and George Plimpton, who both covered a famous match in this sport in 1974. For 10 points, name this sport which is the subject of A. J. Liebling’s book The Sweet Science.
boxing
9

163360-)
This novel’s climactic event takes place shortly after the protagonist becomes engrossed in a copy of Trelawny’s Recollections of the Last Days of Shelley and Byron. This novel’s protagonist is told about a woman who stretched and tanned the hide of an illegally trapped lynx by Homer Campbell. This novel’s protagonist Lou is a librarian who lives in an octagonal house on an island to document the library of Colonel Cary. This novel regained notoriety in 2014 due to an (*) Imgur [“imager”] post showing this novel’s Harlequin-esque paperback cover image; that post was titled “WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK, CANADA?” For 10 points, name this Marian Engel novel about a woman who has a sexual relationship with the title animal.
Bear Note to moderator: You should probably familiarize yourself with the answerline before reading the question
9

163369-)
This phrase inspired the title of a 2015 Peter Tscherkassky film which repurposes clips from old pornographic films. A stick figure named Sticky stars in a graphic novel whose title was inspired by this phrase, edited by Robert Sikoryak and Art Spiegelman and written by 69 comics artists. The line “I’m all sewn up” is repeated in a song with this title from the musical Hedwig and the Angry Inch. In its original appearance, this phrase was followed by the words “shall drink the (*) new wine.” The game of “picture consequence” is a variant of a technique of this name, which was originally created by a group of people including Pierre Reverdy, Yves Tanguy, and André Breton. For 10 points, name this parlor game in which people write a sentence in sequence without anybody knowing what the previous people had written.
exquisite corpse [or cadavre exquis]
9

163375-)
In one of these locations, the protagonist ponders whether ancient Greek statues of goddesses have anuses under their skirts, and decides to pretend to drop something so he can sneak a peek next time he sees one. In one of these locations, a discussion of a recently deceased man leads to a passage parodying Theosophists in which that man tells people to tell his wife the location of his lost boot. The protagonist sees two flies (*) stuck on a windowpane in one of these locations and is reminded of when he proposed to his wife. Events taking place at one of these locations are interspersed with passages parodying Irish heroic myths. An anti-Semitic man known as the Citizen gets into an argument with the protagonist at one of these locations. For 10 points, name this type of business, examples of which owned by Barney Kiernan and Davy Byrne are visited by Leopold Bloom in Ulysses.
pubs [or bars]
9

163377-)
This author was once criticized for promoting “the jejune romanticism of an absurd past that is dead, and out of charity ought to be buried.” Frederick Douglass got his surname from a character in one of this author’s poems. At an event inspired by this author, held annually in Clarence, North Carolina, Rena Walden meets George Tryon in Charles Chesnutt’s The House Behind the Cedars. A wrecked steamboat in (*) Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is named after this author. In Life on the Mississippi, Mark Twain said that this author was “in great measure responsible for” the Civil War, blaming the South’s backwardness on this author’s namesake disease. For 10 points, name this author whose novels, wildly popular in the antebellum South, include Guy Mannering and Ivanhoe.
Sir Walter Scott
9

163380-)
This myth system draws partly from texts written by Pedro Bell. The band Urge Overkill is named in reference to a concept from this myth system’s cosmology. A personification of evil in this myth system uses mind control to “constipate the masses,” but is defeated by a hero named Jasper Spatic, who shoots him with a Throb Gun. In this myth system, a doctor on a mission to save the Earth creates clones of himself called the (*) “children of production.” This myth system describes a conflict between “the placebo syndrome” and a form of cosmic entelechy. In this myth system, an inhabitant of the Nose Zone named Sir Nose is shot with a Bop Gun by the heroic Star Child, who descends from a Mothership. For 10 points, name this myth system developed by a band led by George Clinton.
Parliament-Funkadelic mythology [accept either underlined portion; accept P-Funk]
9

163384-)
A mythologized version of a character’s death in this manner is reenacted on Damonsday. Jock Casey kills Damon Rutherford in this manner in a fluke event with odds of 10,077,696 to 1 against, as determined by the Extraordinary Occurrences Chart. A woman who dies in this manner has a secret second life as a nightclub singer named the Lady in Red. After killing a woman in this manner, a character removes the claws from a stuffed (*) armadillo which was a gift from Dan Needham to the narrator. After killing Tabby in this manner, a character who speaks in all caps becomes convinced that he is “an instrument of God.” For 10 points, name the manner in which John Wheelwright’s mother is killed by the title character of A Prayer for Owen Meany.
being struck by a baseball
9

163392-)
This story’s protagonist notices the glow-in-the-dark stickers of stars and moons on the ceiling before being asked “What do you want to do now?”, to which she imagines responding “We should probably just kill ourselves.” When a character in this story says “Don’t worry, I’m not going to murder you,” the protagonist jokes “It’s O.K. – you can murder me if you want.” The main characters of this story invent a scenario in which Pita flirts with (*) Yan but is cold and formal with Mu. At the beginning of this story, the protagonist makes fun of a man for ordering a box of Red Vines at the movie theater. This story ends with Robert calling Margot a whore at the end of a series of texts, after an uncomfortable sexual encounter leads Margot to break off their relationship. For 10 points, name this New Yorker story by Kristen Roupenian which went viral in December 2017.
“Cat Person”
9

163394-)
This book notes that “while he talks plenty about love, Plato does not say much about fucking” as part of a discussion of the multiple meanings of the Greek word pharmakon. This book proposes that the two candidates for the perfect film are an Andy Warhol movie and Joseph Cornell’s Rose Hobart, before noting that both Warhol and Cornell could arguably be described as celibate. This book, divided into 240 brief “propositions,” is named after a Joan (*) Mitchell painting. This book, which opens with the line “Suppose I were to begin by saying that I had fallen in love with a color,” recounts how the author went through a breakup while caring for a quadriplegic friend. For 10 points, name this poetic meditation on the color blue by Maggie Nelson.
Bluets
9

163397-)
A poem named after this place commands “go on, high ship” three times. A poem named after this place begins by listing “a few things for themselves” and addresses a “donna, donna, dark, stooping in indigo gown and cloudy constellations.” A twelve-line poem named after this place ends by noting that “there will never be an end to this droning of the surf.” A poem set in this (*) state describes a woman whose voice “made the sky acutest at its vanishing” and who “was the single artificer of the world in which she sang.” That poem, which addresses someone named Ramón Fernández, begins “She sang beyond the genius of the sea.” For 10 points, name this state which is the setting of Wallace Stevens’ “The Idea of Order at Key West.”
Florida
9

163399-)
A tracking shot beginning in one of these specific locations, in which Babs is murdered offscreen, starts in complete silence before the sounds of a busy street gradually assert themselves. The camera is often described as “tracking” Jo’s voice through one of these locations in a scene in which Jo sings “Que Sera, Sera” while her son is being held captive. In a tense scene, a man in one of these locations claims that he telephoned the hospital after (*) Alicia’s collapse, despite there being no telephone in Alicia’s room. In a scene from Rebecca, shots of three people with their backs turned alternate with shots of the second Mrs. de Winter wearing one of Rebecca’s old gowns in one of these locations. A murderer with a knife bursts into an overhead shot of one of these locations to kill Detective Arbogast in Psycho. For 10 points, name this type of location beloved by Hitchcock, which surprisingly is not referred to by the title of The 39 Steps.
staircases [accept clear equivalents; prompt on answers like houses or motels or embassies by asking for a specific part of the building]
9

163407-)
The series of poems about “Box” Brown in Tyehimba Jess’ Olio ends with a parody of this poem. This poem’s line “Once in a sycamore I was glad” refers to a sycamore tree outside of the house of the poet’s lover, who he referred to pseudonymously as “Lise.” This poem notes that “all the world like a woolen lover once did seem on [the main character’s] side,” but “then came a departure.” This poem’s second line calls the main character (*) “unappeasable” and says that he sulked. This poem’s first line, which imitates the alliterative pattern of Anglo-Saxon poetry, complete with caesura, is “Huffy Henry hid the day.” For 10 points, name this opening poem of an acclaimed collection by John Berryman.
“Dream Song 1” [accept anything indicating it’s the first Dream Song; accept “Huffy Henry hid the day” before “Huffy”]
9

163408-)
A section of Alejandro Zambra’s Multiple Choice ends with the son of Manuel Contreras complaining about this person. In VALIS, this person temporarily combines with Horselover Fat when a two-year-old girl points out that they’re actually the same person. In another novel, this person manages to get Templeton invited to Princess Novemali’s ball, but Templeton is on his deathbed and declines the invitation due to “a previous engagement with his Blessed Lord.” In Breakfast of Champions, this person stares at the waitress (*) Bonnie MacMahon in a cocktail lounge, and is later unexpectedly attacked by the dog Kazak. This person tells Augusto that he can’t commit suicide, and then possibly kills him, at the end of Niebla by Miguel de Unamuno. For 10 points, name these people who often insert themselves into works of meta-fiction.
the author [accept clear equivalents; accept the following authors: Alejandro Zambra, Philip K. Dick, W. Somerset Maugham, Kurt Vonnegut, Miguel de Unamuno; prompt on “the narrator”]
9

163416-)
Tony Judt’s [“juts”] Reappraisals includes an essay on the “Jewish Europe” of an intellectual with this surname, discussing his autobiographical trilogy All Our Yesterdays. A thinker with this surname treats meaning as an output of a mental “symbolic device,” contra Victor Turner and Claude Lévi-Strauss, in his book Rethinking Symbolism. That thinker with this surname worked with Deirdre Wilson to develop relevance theory. A University of (*) Missouri professor with this surname who specializes in mid-19th century Rhineland wrote a 2013 biography which aims to establish that its subject was “not our contemporary … [but] more a figure of the past than a prophet of the present.” For 10 points, identify this surname of the author of the biography Karl Marx: A Nineteenth-Century Life, whose son Adam played Quizbowl for Northwestern.
Sperber
9

163417-)
In a story by this author, Pembleton College implements a technology called calliagnosia [cal-ee-ag-NO-zhuh], which prevents people from being able to tell whether someone is good-looking or not. While dying in a car crash, one of this author’s characters is struck by a beam of light from Heaven which inspires him to love God with all his being, but God sends him to Hell anyway. This author of “Liking What You See: A Documentary” and “Hell Is the Absence of God” wrote a story which both begins and ends with the narrator telling her (*) daughter about her husband asking her “Do you want to make a baby?” The narrator of that story discusses Fermat’s principle of least time with Gary, and is a linguist who is tasked with the job of deciphering the language of the Heptapods. For 10 points, name this sci-fi author whose “Story of Your Life” is the basis for the movie Arrival.
Ted Chiang
9

163418-)
During the first of these events, which is recounted in a chapter called “The Albatross,” a man drops his speaking-trumpet. During one of these events, a man who believes himself to be the archangel Gabriel stabs a letter with a knife and throws it to the ground because he’s convinced doom and destruction are imminent. After one of these events, a man tells a story in his sleep about a man named Steelkilt, who got into a fight with Radney when Radney ordered him to shovel pig shit. During one of these events, the novel’s (*) anti-hero refuses to help Gardiner search for his missing son. There are nine of these events, which are often called “gams,” in an 1851 novel. For 10 points, name these events in Moby-Dick in which the Pequod encounters objects like the Rachel and the Samuel Enderby.
the Pequod’s meetings with other ships [accept clear equivalents; accept gams before “gams”]
9

163421-)
A poem about these objects muses that “it is good sometimes for poetry to disenchant us.” Robert Hass wrote that “there are limits to saying, in language, what” one of these objects did in a poem about “the problem of describing” these objects. The speaker says that “their merely being there means something” in a poem in which each of these objects “join[s] a neighbor, as though speech were a still performance.” W. H. Auden controversially selected a book named after these objects for the (*) 1956 Yale Younger Poets Prize, bringing John Ashbery to prominence. A couplet claiming that “poems are made by fools like me, but only God can make” one of these objects closes a poem about these objects. For 10 points, name these objects which title Joyce Kilmer’s most famous poem.
trees
9

163427-)
A 2015 song cycle by the musician Stew has a title which adds the letter “G” to the title of a book by this author. Paul J. Thompson leads the audience through passages of a book by this author in a stage show structured as a church service led by a bass player dressed in a priestly robe. That show, which premiered in 2016, was created by Meshell Ndegeocello [“me-shell” en-day-gay-oh-CHELL-oh]. A 2016 essay collection edited by Jesmyn Ward has a title referencing a book by this author. A 2016 documentary is based on an unfinished manuscript by this author called (*) Remember This House. Barry Jenkins’ next film will be based on a novel by this author. The structure of the book Between the World and Me by Ta-Nehisi [tah-nuh-HAH-see] Coates was inspired by a book by this author. For 10 points, name this subject of Raoul Peck’s documentary I Am Not Your Negro, an author whose books include The Fire Next Time and Go Tell It on the Mountain.
James Baldwin (the song cycle is called “Notes of a Native Song”)
9

163429-)
Professor Leker harnesses this phenomenon as a power source in Sigizmund Krzhizhanovsky’s [cur-ZHEE-zhuh-noff-“skis”] story “Yellow Coal.” Thomas Wyatt says that “[this thing] asketh [itself] and changing, change” in his poem “Blame Not My Lute.” This phenomenon explains why the “sullen wind … tore the elm-tops down” at the beginning of “Porphyria’s Lover.” A line from Paradise Lost says that this thing is best (*) repaid with itself. A location which is owned by Mr. and Miss Bodwin is described as having this quality and being “full of a baby’s venom.” The opening line of Toni Morrison’s Beloved attributes this quality to 124 Bluestone Road. For 10 points, name this emotion which motivates many Quizbowl players.
spite
9

163445-)
. In a short story, a crowd laughing at an instance of this action prompts the Man in the Moon to note that “the old earth is frolicsome to-night!” In a story whose title references this action, the narrator is invited to an asylum which uses an innovative method of treatment called the “system of soothing,” developed by Monsieur Maillard. The names of an imaginary doctor and (*) professor in the title of that Edgar Allan Poe story reference this action. The revelation that a character has undergone this action ends a story in which Robin arrives in Boston to look for the title character. For 10 points, name this punishment received by the title character of Nathaniel Hawthorne’s “My Kinsman, Major Molineux,” which also befalls the Duke and the Dauphin before they are made to ride the rail in Adventures of Huckleberry Finn.
tarring and feathering
9

163447-)
Ben Lerner’s The Hatred of Poetry includes a meditation on this punctuation mark inspired by Claudia Rankine’s Citizen, whose original galleys were liberally sprinkled with these punctuation marks, which were removed from the final published version. This punctuation mark interrupts the question “Shall you uncover honey where maggots are?” in a poem whose opening line, “What does not change is the will to change,” is also interrupted by this punctuation mark. That poem is “The Kingfishers” by (*) Charles Olson, who wrote in the essay “Projective Verse” that this punctuation mark produces “a pause so light it hardly separates the words.” Either the vertical bar or this punctuation mark can be referred to as a virgule. For 10 points, name this punctuation mark used to indicate line breaks when quoting poetry.
slash [accept virgule before mentioned]
9

163448-)
Alan Hollinghurst’s The Swimming Pool Library ends with Will and James watching a recording of this author. This author is paired with Ivy Compton-Burnett in Susan Sontag’s “canon of Camp.” A novel by this author opens with its title character christening a police dog Crack and ends with him suffering a heart attack while running naked after a choir boy named Chicklet. The arrival of the dark-skinned Mrs. Yajnavalkya and her niece Niri-Esther upsets the balance of the title spa resort populated by rich old people like Lady Parvula de Panzoust in a novel by this author. For 10 points, name this Wildean English novelist of (*) Valmouth and Concerning the Eccentricities of Cardinal Pirelli.
Ronald Firbank
9

163452-)
Bernadette Mayer’s sonnet “You jerk you didn’t call me up” ends with two lines imitating this genre. An author whose 2014 debut novel belongs to this genre borrowed the collective pseudonym “Nicolas Bourbaki” for his own pseudonym, adding an “H” to “Nicolas.” Keith Marion is the protagonist of Kim Newman’s Life’s Lottery, a novel in this genre. A pioneering work in this genre includes a storyline in which the protagonist ends up on a train with Abraham Lincoln while he is writing the Gettysburg Address. This genre was popularized by Edward (*) Packard and R. A. Montgomery, who used it for a series of books including The Abominable Snowman and The Cave of Time which were published by Bantam Books. For 10 points, name this genre which typically includes instructions like “If you decide to enter, turn to page 120.”
choose your own adventure novels [or gamebooks; accept interactive fiction or choicefic]
9

163453-)
These passages by this author are the basis for a pair of plays by the New York Neo-Futurists, subtitled Volume 1 and Volume 2. A number of these passages describe people as having “irregular features.” One of these passages describes the choruses being sung simultaneously by a number of characters while another character sits in a chair, oblivious to the racket they’re making. Another of these passages describes a bookshelf whose volumes “have the look of having been (*) read and reread” and lists in detail the specific books on the shelf. One of these passages compares some trees to “exhausted women resting their sagging breasts and hands and hair” on the roof of a house. For 10 points, name these non-dialogue passages in plays like The Iceman Cometh and Long Day’s Journey into Night.
stage directions by Eugene O’Neill [or didaskaliae by Eugene O’Neill]
9

163457-)
This author collected bloopers in the book The Pocket Book of Boners, which spawned sequels called Boners, More Boners, Still More Boners, and Prize Boners for 1932. The endpaper of a book by this author contains a picture of a bucket of sap with the name of his publisher written on it, implying the publisher was a sap for publishing it. This author was the uncredited writer of the World War II propaganda shorts Our Job in Japan and Your Job in Germany. In collaboration with Art Buchwald, this author took one of his books, replaced the main character’s name every time it appeared with (*) “Richard M. Nixon,” and had it published as a newspaper column. An uncharacteristic book by this author is about a group of sisters who search for “horse truths” after their father is thrown from his horse on the way to the Battle of Hastings; those sisters always go around naked. For 10 points, name this author of The Seven Lady Godivas, whose books for children include The Cat in the Hat.
Dr. Seuss [or Theodor Seuss Geisel]
9

163462-)
An author with this surname wrote a novel in which a man abandons his wife in the red-light district of Colón, Panama, so she hangs out with a teenage prostitute named Pacifica. That novel is about Frieda Copperfield and the deeply strange Cristina Goering. The composer of the music for Orson Welles’ Too Much Johnson had this surname, and wrote a novel whose female protagonist is ritualistically raped daily by a pair of camel drivers. The author of Two (*) Serious Ladies gained this surname by marrying the author of a novel whose second section, “The Earth’s Sharp Edge,” ends with George Tunner beating up Eric Lyle for rifling through the protagonist’s luggage. An author with this surname is best known for a novel in which Belqassim takes as his fourth wife Kit, who travels to the Sahara with her husband Port Moresby. For 10 points, identify this surname of the author of The Sheltering Sky.
Bowles [accept Auer, Jane Bowles’ maiden name]
9

163464-)
In a novel named after this concept, Little Chief finds that a roasted pigeon has diamonds in its stomach as a result of the protagonist using diamonds as bait to trap pigeons to eat. That novel named after this concept is about Ludo, who bricks herself up in her apartment for 28 years to avoid the turmoil outside. A collection named after this concept includes a story in which Brint Moltke’s excrement emerges from his asshole as fully-formed sculptural masterpieces; that story is called “The (*) Suffering Channel.” The monologue of a suicidal advertising executive named Neal makes up the story “Good Old Neon” from that same collection. A José Eduardo Agualusa novel is entitled A General Theory of [this concept]. For 10 points, identify this concept which titles a 2004 short story collection by David Foster Wallace.
oblivion
9

163465-)
An article by one of these people about the other quotes a line from an Amazon review about how “the American tree becomes a toothpick.” One of these people criticized the other for using the phrase “the jeweled carapaces of formalism” in writing about James Merrill. One of these people replied to a letter to the editor by the other by simply saying “I have written the review and I stand by it”; that review argues that “no century in the evolution of poetry in English ever had (*) 175 poets worth reading.” In a review called “Are These the Poems to Remember?”, one of these people criticized the other’s Penguin Anthology of Twentieth-Century American Poetry for focusing too much on “multicultural inclusiveness.” For 10 points, name these two people, one of them a poetry critic who wrote On Extended Wings and the other a poet who wrote Thomas and Beulah.
Helen (Hennessy) Vendler and Rita (Frances) Dove
9

163476-)
This is the title of a set of Eucharistic meditations on the gospel written by Concepción Cabrera de Armida. The speaker of a sonnet with this two-word title describes himself as “a soul unshackled … spurning earth’s vain and soul debasing thrall.” This is the title of the last canto of Neruda’s Canto General [“CON-toe hen-er-ALL”]. A poem of this title describes “the living sea of waking dreams, where there is neither senses of life or joys, but the vast shipwreck of my life’s esteems.” The speaker of a poem of this title describes himself as “the self-consumer of my woes” after complaining “my friends forsake me like a memory lost.” While in an (*) insane asylum, John Clare wrote his most famous poem, which has this title. For 10 points, name this two-word phrase with which Martha answers the title question at the end of Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
“I Am” [accept “Yo soy”]
9

163484-)
A philosopher with this first and last name wrote a paper rejecting the “discontinuation account” and the “desire account” of why killing is wrong in favor of the “value of a future-like-ours” account. An author with this first and last name wrote a poem whose speaker complains about readers who “are always interested in technical details when the main question is whether the stuff is literature or not.” The philosopher who wrote the paper “Why Abortion Is Immoral” shares this full name with an author who created a cat who believes herself to be a (*) reincarnation of Cleopatra. That author, who collaborated with the cartoonist George Herriman, also created a cockroach who writes free verse in all lowercase letters because he can’t operate the shift key on his typewriter. For 10 points, identify the first and last name of the humorist who created Archy and Mehitabel.
Don Marquis [or Donald Marquis]
9

163486-)
François Lepic’s nickname refers to this physical feature in an autobiographical novel by Jules Renard which inspired a Gilbert Sorrentino novel titled for a “fiend.” Princess Leigh-Cheri believes that aliens with this physical feature have transmitted her the message CHOICE through a package of Camel cigarettes in Tom Robbins’ novel Still Life with Woodpecker. A character breaks a slate over (*) Gilbert Blythe’s head when he gives her a nickname referencing this trait. A story whose title references this trait turns on the realization that the knees of Vincent Spaulding’s trousers are dirty. This is the most distinctive physical feature of Jabez Wilson, who is paid to copy out the Encyclopædia Britannica. For 10 points, a Sherlock Holmes story is named after a “league” of people with what physical feature?
red hair [or redheadedness; or ginger hair; or being a carrot-top]
9

163489-)
A strange sound heard by the narrator turns out to be a bunch of this character’s friends sucking on the insides of their cheeks. A man with a limp is such a close friend of this character that people tease him about having a fiancée. The narrator realizes that this character “must have felt … ready to start life all over again” and that “no one in the world had any right to weep for her” before he finally “[lays] his heart open to the benign (*) indifference of the universe.” A trial prosecutor makes a big deal out of the fact that the narrator didn’t know this character’s age and the fact that he went to a swimming pool the day after her funeral, where he met Marie. This resident of the Home for Aged Persons in Marengo is a close friend of Thomas Pérez. For 10 points, name this character whose death is announced in the first sentence of Camus’ The Stranger.
Meursault’s mother [accept Maman]
9

163503-)
A scene taking place in this type of location culminates in a woman dramatically removing her headscarf to reveal her shaved head. While in this type of location, Akiko listens to a string of answering machine messages from her grandmother. A film set mostly in this type of location ends with the protagonist lying down in a hole, before a cut to black followed by a fourth-wall-breaking epilogue showing the crew making the film. That film’s title comes from a conversation in which a taxidermist recalls how the title (*) sensation convinced him not to kill himself. Ten conversations taking place in this type of location are the subject of the 2002 film Ten. While in this type of location, Badii tries to find someone to bury him after his suicide in the film Taste of Cherry. For 10 points, name this type of vehicle which is a frequent setting in Abbas Kiarostami films.
cars [accept equivalents; accept taxis or cabs; prompt on “streets” or similar answers]
9

163508-)
James Weldon Johnson used this two-word phrase to describe the earliest ragtime songs in his preface to The Book of American Negro Poetry. In order to oppose a phenomenon with this name, a Talking Android is created by the military wing of the Atonist Path. The Mu’tafikah, who raid museums like the Center of Art Detention, are among the fourteen “carriers” of a phenomenon of this name, corresponding to the fourteen parts of an object known only as the (*) Text. Hinckle Von Vampton leads the efforts of the Knights Templar to eliminate a phenomenon of this name, in opposition to Black Herman and PaPa LaBas. For 10 points, a virus representing black culture in Ishmael Reed’s Mumbo Jumbo has what two-word name referencing a quote from Topsy in Uncle Tom’s Cabin?
Jes Grew [accept just grew]
9

163512-)
This essay’s author recalls being told a story about a woman who ran out of her house naked in the middle of night screaming that her husband was trying to kill her, which the nuclear physicist telling the story didn’t believe because “they were respectable middle-class people.” This essay recounts a dinner with Tariq Ali at which the author discussed the role of an organization called Women Strike for Peace in bringing down HUAC. This is the title essay of a book that also includes the essays (*) “Grandmother Spider” and “Worlds Collide in a Luxury Suite.” This essay recounts how a man at a party in Aspen asked the author if she had heard about “the very important Muybridge book that came out this year,” even though that Muybridge book, River of Shadows, was written by this essay’s author herself. For 10 points, name this Rebecca Solnit essay which popularized the concept of “mansplaining.”
“Men Explain Things to Me”
9

163514-)
An author with this surname wrote a novel whose publication was delayed for a year because all of its copies were stuck at the Panama Canal after the shipping company went bankrupt. That novel’s protagonist exclaims “It’s all made out of… dots!” to her brother Deeze while looking at A Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte at the Art Institute of Chicago. An author with this surname borrowed the opening words of Don DeLillo’s Americana for the title of a novel written in the first-person (*) plural. A graphic novel by an author with this surname is presented as the diary of Karen Reyes, containing intricate cross-hatched illustrations on a spiral-bound notebook. That novel is called My Favorite Thing Is Monsters. An author with this surname wrote a 2007 novel about a struggling Chicago advertising agency. For 10 points, identify this surname of Joshua, the author of Then We Came to the End.
Ferris
9

163519-)
This character convenes a faculty meeting on whether the African-American Studies major should be changed to a Critical Whiteness Studies major while serving as the Dean of Social Sciences at an unnamed university in a play by Kwame Kwei-Armah. This character mocks another character for trying to “cure the Great Sore of Colonialism – with the Penicillin of Independence.” In the first scene, this character drops to her knees and sarcastically apologizes to her (*) brother for having dreams, shouting “FORGIVE ME!” repeatedly. This character is criticized for straightening her hair by a man who gives her a nickname meaning “One for Whom Bread – Food – Is Not Enough.” This character vacillates between two wildly contrasting suitors, George Murchison and Joseph Asagai. For 10 points, name this sister of Walter Younger in A Raisin in the Sun.
Beneatha Younger [or Bennie Younger]
9

163523-)
A poem by this author tells the addressee “you carried the anthem under your breath, waiting until the airport toilet to tear up the passport and swallow.” That poem, which notes that “no one leaves home unless home is the mouth of a shark,” is entitled “Home.” This poet warned “you can’t make homes out of human beings, someone should have already told you that” in a poem in which a man compares the addressee to “an impossible highway” and “a burning house,” though the speaker tells her “you are a (*) horse running alone and he tries to tame you.” That poem is called “For Women Who Are ‘Difficult’ To Love.” For 10 points, name this Somali-British poet whose work was featured on Beyoncé’s album LEMONADE.
Warsan Shire
9

163529-)
According to the director, this sequence was inspired by the Tamil film Aalavandhan. A shot from this sequence follows a bullet traveling through a man’s skull, creating a hole into which two models peer before they start screaming. In this sequence, the word “WHIMPER” emerges from a character’s mouth before she stuffs it back in. In this sequence, an 11-year-old girl seduces a (*) pedophile so she can kill him, before hiding under a bed to shoot two of his henchmen in the leg. In this sequence, a girl cowers underneath a bed as her parents are killed with a sword by a yakuza boss, and she swears revenge, growing up to be a top assassin. For 10 points, identify this sequence showing the backstory of Lucy Liu’s character in a Quentin Tarantino film.
the animated sequence from Kill Bill, Vol. 1 [or the backstory of O-Ren Ishii; or the backstory of O-Ren Ishii]
9

163530-)
A member of this profession warns the addressee that “the obloquy of newness may fall bitterly on you” in a poem which scorns “all distractions of men’s fellowship and smiles” and “the Goddess Pleasure with her meretricious smiles.” In that poem by Sarah Williams, an aged one of these people addresses a pupil. The farmer Brad McLaughlin buys a piece of equipment used by these people in a poem by (*) Robert Frost. The speaker of a poem about one of these people describes “how soon unaccountable I became tired and sick, till rising and gliding out I wander’d off by myself.” That speaker stops listening to one of these people who “lectured with much applause” and decides to “[look] up in perfect silence at the stars.” For 10 points, name this profession of the “learn’d” title character of a Walt Whitman poem.
astronomers
9

163532-)
A poem named after this place includes an italicized couplet asking “Say, who are you that mumbles in the dark? And who are you that draws your veil across the stars?” That poem proclaims that “we, the people, must redeem the land, the mines, the plants, the rivers.” A poem named after this place describes an “endless chain of profit, power, gain, of grab the land!” That poem is about the idea of “the dream the (*) dreamers dreamed … that strong land of love where never kings connive nor tyrants scheme that any man be crushed by one above.” The speaker of a poem whose first and last lines both mention this place imagines that “they’ll see how beautiful I am and be ashamed” instead of “send[ing] me to eat in the kitchen when company comes.” For 10 points, name this country mentioned in Langston Hughes’ poem “I, Too.”
America [or the United States of America]
9

163538-)
This author included his Manifesto for an Abstract Literature in the notes to a book in which James Frazer captains the Pythoness, a ship designed by the title corporation to dispose of a mysterious artifact. A text by this author which is practically unreadable because of its strange typography is subtitled “CookIng-lobsteRs- wIth-jAke-AnD-DInos” in reference to the Chapman brothers, who created the artwork on the cover of a collection by this author which also includes “Introduction to Qwernomics” and (*) “CyberGothic.” This author founded Time Spiral Press, which has published his recent books Chasm and Phyl-Undhu. Ray Brassier co-wrote the introduction to a collection of this author’s writings, Fanged Noumena. For 10 points, name this Dark Enlightenment philosopher who writes what he calls “theory-fiction.”
Nick Land
9

163539-)
An essay named after this place examines the rhetoric of an institution called the Center, which holds meetings aimed at “clarifying the basic issues.” The author recalls tearing a Karl Shapiro poem about this place from a magazine and pinning it on the wall in the essay “Holy Water.” A quote casting doubt on people who talk about this place’s hedonism appears at the beginning of a 2017 film. Biker movies like The (*) Wild Angels and the apocalyptic prophecies of Brother Theobold are discussed in the essay “Notes Toward a Dreampolitik,” which is part of a sequence of essays named after this place. That sequence named after this state is part of the book The White Album. For 10 points, name this state which is the subject of many essays by Joan Didion, who is from its city of Sacramento.
California
9

163540-)
This non-English word appears on a flashing red sign repeatedly in a 2012 Peter Strickland film. A poem by Eugen Gomringer consists of five rows and three columns of this word, with the middle spot left blank. While two women lie in bed at 2 A.M., with their faces framed in homage to the shots of overlapping faces in Persona, one of them repeatedly says this foreign word. At the very end of a film, a (*) blue-haired woman whispers this word after one of the protagonists shoots herself and smoke rises from her bed. At an establishment of this name, an announcer proclaims “There is no band” in several languages before Rebekah del Rio sings Roy Orbison’s “Crying” in Spanish. That establishment is a club visited by the protagonists in David Lynch’s Mulholland Drive. For 10 points, name this Spanish word for “silence.”
silencio [or silenzio; prompt on silence]
9

163553-)
A poem named after this thing includes an image of a man strolling through Los Angeles in a “Red, Black and Green liberation jumpsuit that he had been saving for just the proper occasion.” That poem invokes messages “about a white tornado, white lightning, or white people.” A poem about this thing mentions Richard Nixon “leading a charge … to eat hog maws stolen from a Harlem sanctuary.” A poem named after this thing notes that “you (*) will not be able to stay home, brother” and “you will not be able to plug in, turn on and cop out,” and ends by declaring that this thing “will be live.” For 10 points, name this thing which, according to the title of a Gil Scott-Heron piece, “will not be televised.”
the revolution
9

163555-)
A member of this profession is disillusioned to discover that the beautiful bakery worker Rapunzel Wisht also works as an exotic dancer named Crayola de Blu. That man with this job is Eugene Eyestones, the protagonist of Alexander Theroux’ Laura Warholic. This is the profession of the gloomy alcoholic Mr. Slump in Evelyn Waugh’s The Loved One. A member of this profession feels that his tongue has turned into a (*) “fat thumb” shortly after a dream in which he sacrifices a lamb while two of his friends look on. Mr. Doyle hides a gun inside a rolled-up newspaper with the intent of killing a man with this profession, who is terrorized by his boss Shrike. For 10 points, name the profession of the title character of Nathanael West’s Miss Lonelyhearts.
advice columnists [or agony aunts; prompt on answers like writers or journalists; accept sex columnists, because the first clue refers to one]
9

163560-)
The first of these works ends by comparing prejudice to “a big sore eating inside of your belly.” A tombstone in Newport Beach is inscribed with a quote from one of these works beginning “Tomorrow is the most important thing. Comes into us at midnight very clean.” That one of these works is the source of the quote “I believe in white supremacy until the blacks are educated to a point of responsibility.” The first of these works recorded a conversation between (*) Alex Haley and Miles Davis. John Wayne defended the Vietnam War in an extremely racist 1971 work of this type. Just before the 1976 election, one of these works was published in which Jimmy Carter admitted to having “committed adultery in my heart many times.” For 10 points, name this type of work you might encounter if you read a certain men’s magazine for the articles.
Playboy interviews
9

163563-)
A poem about this subject matter with a Thomas Nashe-inspired title describes two “fiercely attractive” people who “thirst heroically together for euphoria.” A long poem about this subject matter by Tim Dlugos is named after a location in Manhattan. A poet wrote “This is not a book about [this subject matter]” in the introduction to Tea, which makes up a trilogy of books about this topic along with Lunch and Cocktails. The poet who wrote My Alexandria wrote about this topic in his memoir Heaven’s Coast. (*) D. A. Powell and Mark Doty are both known for their poetry about this topic, which Thom Gunn wrote about in his collection The Man with Night Sweats. For 10 points, name this disease which is also the subject of works like And the Band Played On and Angels in America.
HIV/AIDS crisis [accept clear equivalents; prompt on death]
9

163569-)
In a play named after one of these objects, the title character uses an axe to the split the heads of Marx, Lenin, and Mao, who are represented by three naked women. Clark Gable’s Broadway debut was in an expressionist play named after these objects, in which a stenographer is executed for murdering her husband. That play is by Sophie Treadwell. The so-called Restoration spectaculars staged at theaters like the Dorset Garden Theatre are also named after these objects. A woman whose heart is a (*) clock stands motionless on the stage wrapped in white bandages at the end of a play named after one of these objects. That postmodernist play based on Hamlet is by Heiner Müller. The story of Oedipus is the basis for a Jean Cocteau play titled for an “infernal” one of these objects. For 10 points, name these objects which were used to bring gods onto the stage in ancient Greek theater, hence the phrase deus ex [these objects].
machines [accept Machinal]
9

163574-)
An essay by this author notes that “Then I came in one day, and all the kids were dead. And I wasn’t feeling so good myself all of a sudden! That was one bad semester! THE END!” wouldn’t have made a good ending for Donald Barthelme’s story “The School.” In an essay, this author wrote that he didn’t regret skinny-dipping in a river in Sumatra into which a bunch of monkeys were pooping, but that he did regret not being nicer to a new kid in his 7th-grade class. An essay by this author compares the mass media to a man who puts an “intelligence-ceiling” on a party by (*) loudly talking about how much he loves early mornings in spring. This author delivered a commencement address at Syracuse University called “Congratulations, By the Way: Some Thoughts on Kindness.” For 10 points, name this author of the essay collection The Braindead Megaphone, whose fiction includes Tenth of December and Lincoln in the Bardo.
George Saunders
9

163578-)
This is the alphabetically second of the names of two sisters who are delighted to learn the word “immured” because it can be used to describe their life in a convent. A character with this first name has a nightmare in which her lover is repeatedly killed by a volley of arrows and resurrected. A character with this name has her romantic notions about her family history shattered when she runs into Cousin Eva on the way to a funeral. A woman with this name is pestered to buy (*) Liberty Bonds even though she doesn’t make enough money at her newspaper job to afford them. While recovering from influenza, that character learns that her lover, Adam, caught a fatal case of influenza from her. For 10 points, identify this first name shared by the protagonists of “Old Mortality” and “Pale Horse, Pale Rider” by Katherine Anne Porter.
Miranda
9

163584-)
This musician toured with her husband Will calling themselves the “assassinators” of their genre with Tolliver’s Circus and Musical Extravaganza. In a song first recorded by this musician, she sings “I’m gonna buy me a pistol just as long as I am tall… gonna kill my man and catch the cannonball.” She was known for performing in an ostentatious getup including gold teeth, a necklace of gold coins, and an (*) ostrich plume. This woman sang “Went out last night with a crowd of my friends, they must’ve been women ‘cause I don’t like no men” in reference to one of her lesbian orgies in the song “Prove It On Me Blues.” She was the first musician to record the song “See See Rider Blues.” For 10 points, name this blues singer who inspired August Wilson with a song named after her “black bottom.”
Ma Rainey [or Gertrude Malissa Nix Pridgett]
9

163586-)
A novel whose title begins with these four words has only one real character, a narrator who calls himself Writer, as in the opening line, “Writer is pretty much tempted to quit writing.” In a story whose English title begins with these four words, Mademoiselle de Chaux writes a book called The Three Favorites which she sends to Madame de Pompadour. In a film whose title starts with these four words, Mojtaba Mirtahmasb films a man reading the screenplay from an abandoned movie while people outside set off fireworks and jump over bonfires. That film was smuggled out of (*) Iran in a flash drive hidden in a birthday cake. These words precede “novel” in the title of a David Markson novel, “story” in the title of a Denis Diderot story, and “film” in the title of a Jafar Panahi film. For 10 points, name these four English words which, when followed by “pipe,” comprise the caption of René Magritte’s The Treachery of Images.
this is not a
9

163588-)
A phrase which includes this noun was coined by Robert Kelly to refer to the poetry produced by people like himself, Jerome Rothenberg, and Clayton Eshleman. A theorist wrote that the use of a phrase like “dim lands of peace” dulls this concept by mixing the abstract and the concrete. An essay named after this concept recommends composing “in sequence of the musical phrase, not in sequence of the metronome” and mandates “direct treatment of the (*) ‘thing,’ whether subjective or objective.” Robert Bly popularized a poetic school named after the “deep” form of this concept. A school of poetry named after this concept is exemplified by poems like “Oread” and “In a Station of the Metro.” For 10 points, identify this concept which names a school of poetry led by people like H. D. and Ezra Pound.
imagery [accept word forms]
9

163589-)
A story in the form of one of these works ends with the lines “Something has just gone amiss with my vehicle. I am dying” and was written by Joanna Russ. One of these works has a “mad operatic ending” in which “the oboes take that last, despairing wail” according to James Thurber’s essay “There’s No Place Like Home.” The first volume of Dirk Bogarde’s autobiography takes its title from a line attributed to one of these works about a postillion being (*) struck by lightning. Perhaps the most notorious work of this type was written by Pedro Carolino and is the source of the expression “to craunch the marmoset.” A play inspired by one of these works is set in “a middle-class English interior, with English armchairs” on “an English evening.” For 10 points, name this type of work which inspired Eugène Ionesco’s The Bald Soprano.
phrase books [or language-learning textbooks; or language primers]
9

163594-)
The creation of these characters was inspired by a vision of green globes floating around a theater before a Louis Armstrong concert. One of these characters is a doctor who cures a patient by telling him to buy a bouquet of roses, but falls ill when the patient gives him a bouquet of roses as a thank you gift. These are the first title characters of a book whose first section is a set of instructions for completing everyday tasks, like (*) climbing a staircase. The translator Paul Blackburn is described as one of these characters in the dedication to the English translation of 62: A Model Kit. They are the first title characters of a book which describes two other types of characters, including esperanzas [“ace-pair-ON-sauce”]. For 10 points, name this type of fictional character written about by Julio Cortázar, who wrote a book whose title pairs them with famas.
cronopios
9

163615-)
In one part of this novel, the protagonist takes clothes and goods from a house floating down a river with a dead man in it. A man in this novel pretends to be a preacher from London named Harvey Wilks in order to get the gold from Peter Wilks’s will. In another scene in this novel, the protagonist brings a Bible to Sophia, allowing her to run away with Harney, triggering a fight between the (*) Grangerfords and the Shepherdsons. This novel’s protagonist fakes his death to run away from his father and runs into a worker for his tutor, Miss Watson. For 10 points, name this novel whose title character helps the slave Jim escape while floating down the Mississippi River, a novel by Mark Twain.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn [or Huck Finn] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt; Bonuses
3

163629-)
In one novel set in this city, the protagonist participates in The Tarzan Tree Jumping Contest with her neighbor Meme Ortiz, who breaks both of his arms competing. In another novel set in this city, the protagonist leaves his job at Durham’s fertilizer plant and runs away into the countryside after his son Antanas drowns in a flooded street. “An American” born in this city is the protagonist of Saul Bellow’s The Adventures of (*) Augie March. Esperanza Cordero lives on Mango Street in this city, and Jurgis Rudkus joins the Socialist party after being subjected to this city’s meatpacking industry. For 10 points, name this city, the setting of Upton Sinclair’s The Jungle.
Chicago, Illinois &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163648-)
A character in this novel uses the blood of three men to baptize a weapon. In one part of this novel, the main characters encounter a man named Boomer. who recently lost his arm while driving the Samuel Enderby. A seer in this novel prophesies that a character will see two hearses, one made out of American wood, before being killed by hemp rope. While staying in New (*) Bedford, the protagonist of this novel rooms with a man named Queequeg. The narrator of this novel uses a coffin to stay afloat as the Pequod is destroyed by the title figure. Captain Ahab seeks revenge in, for 10 points, what novel titled for a giant white whale, written by Herman Melville?
Moby-Dick &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163657-)
In response to this novel, William Gilmore Simms wrote a novel set during the Revolutionary War called The Sword and the Distaff. James Baldwin wrote that this novel ignores humanity’s “beauty, dread, and power” and compared it to Native Son in the essay “Everybody’s Protest Novel.” In 1933, Disney released a film titled Mickey’s Mellerdrammer that was inspired by (*) “shows” named after this novel that were popular in the late-19th century. Abraham Lincoln supposedly called the author of this novel “the little lady who started this great war.” For 10 points, name this abolitionist novel written by Harriet Beecher Stowe.
Uncle Tom’s Cabin; or, Life Among the Lowly &lt;EA, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
3

163674-)
In this novel, Mrs. Merriweather mentions how the Mruna tribe lives in “sin and squalor” while praising the missionary J. Grimes Everett. Aunt Alexandra chastises the protagonist of this novel for wearing breeches instead of dresses. After sneaking out of the house, the narrator of this novel discusses bartering hickory nuts with the leader of a (*) lynch mob, Mr. Cunningham, while Dill and her brother watch on. That lynch mob in this novel is after Tom Robinson, who is found guilty of raping Mayella Ewell despite being defended by Atticus Finch. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Scout, the best-known work of Harper Lee.
To Kill a Mockingbird &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163691-)
In one novel set during this conflict, Paul Berlin reflects on a soldier’s attempt to walk to Paris. The Swede’s daughter plants a bomb in a post office to protest this conflict in another novel. Mary Anne Belle begins wearing a necklace of human tongues after experiencing this war firsthand in a story that appears in the same collection as “How to (*) Tell a True War Story.” This war, featured in Philip Roth’s American Pastoral, is also the subject of Going After Cacciato and The Things They Carried, two works by Tim O’Brien. For 10 points, name this war written about by Viet Thanh Nguyen.
the Vietnam War &lt;OL, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163700-)
This author describes “a singer everyone has heard” in a sonnet about a midwood bird. In another poem by this author, the speaker compares a spider’s web to a “white piece of rigid satin cloth.” This author of “The Oven Bird” and “Design” included a poem in his collection (*) North of Boston that ends by noting “good fences make good neighbours.” The speaker of this author’s most famous poem describes a path that “was grassy and wanted wear,” and begins “two roads diverged in a yellow wood.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “Mending Wall” and “The Road Not Taken.”
Robert Lee Frost &lt;WG, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163713-)
In one short story by this author, a character recalls a poem that he had “forgotten that he had forgotten” about “a soldier of the Legion” who “lay dying in Algiers.” In another short story, “a wonder with a gun” named Scratchy Wilson decides not to fight Jack Potter after learning that he is married. This author began one short story by stating that “none of them knew the (*) color of the sky.” In that short story by this author, an Oiler, a Cook, a Captain, and a Correspondent try to reach land after a shipwreck. For 10 points, name this author of the short stories “The Bride Comes to Yellow Sky” and “The Open Boat,” who wrote about the soldier Henry Fleming in his novel The Red Badge of Courage.
Stephen Crane &lt;WG, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
3

163714-)
This mythological being is sometimes identified with Dzunukwa and Ste-yah-hah-mah, the “Stick-Man.” J.W. Burns, a schoolmaster at a Canadian tribal reserve, coined one of this being’s most common names, which he said was derived from the Halkomelem dialect. Stories about this being can be originally traced to a 1958 article in the Humboldt Times. Robert Patterson and Bob Gimlin supposedly captured this creature on (*) film. Grover Krantz displayed plaster casts of this figure and argued that it was a type of Gigantopithecus. For 10 points, name this hairy ape-like creature said to inhabit the Pacific Northwest.
Bigfoot [or Sasquatch] &lt;TB, Mythology&gt;
3

163722-)
In a short story by this author, the main character descends a staircase “like a goddess of Victory” after repeating “Free! Body and soul free!” In that story by this author, Louise dies of a heart attack after she discovers her husband, Brently Mallard, did not die in a train accident. A story by this author ends with the burning of a cradle and Armand discovering his (*) mixed-race ancestry after sending his wife away into the bayou. This author’s most famous novel ends with its protagonist purposefully drowning in the Gulf of Mexico; that protagonist is Edna Pontellier. For 10 points, name this author of “The Story of an Hour,” “Desiree’s Baby” and The Awakening.
Kate Chopin [or Katherine O’Flaherty] &lt;TB, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
3

163744-)
The epigraph to one of this writer’s plays calls “an instant in the wind” not “long to hold each desperate choice,” an excerpt from Hart Crane’s “The Broken Tower.” A character in another of this author’s plays calls her nephews and nieces “no neck monsters.” In that play by this author, (*) Skipper commits suicide after confessing his love for his football buddy Brick. In this author’s most famous play, one character leaves Belle Reve to stay at her sister’s house, where she is raped by Stanley Kowalski. For 10 points, name this author of Cat on a Hot Tin Roof and A Streetcar Named Desire.
Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams, III] &lt;TB, Drama&gt;
3

163753-)
This poet wrote that "if you've got no passport you're officially dead" in his “Refugee Blues.” Another of this writer’s poems tells “aeroplanes” to “circle” overhead, “scribbling on the sky the message ‘He is Dead.’” The speaker of that poem by this man claims that a character was “my North, my South, my East and West” and tells the reader to (*) “stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone.” The speaker of this author’s most famous poem sits “in one of the dives on Fifty-Second Street” and asserts “we must love one another or die.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Funeral Blues” and “September 1, 1939.”
W. H. Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden] &lt;WG, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163756-)
One of this writer’s poems describes how an “individual being” can become brother to “the insensible rock” and “the sluggish clod.” In that poem by this author, the speaker exalts the reader to “take the wings of morning” and “pierce the Barcan wilderness.” This poet’s most famous poem ends with the image of a man who “wraps the (*) drapery of his couch about him.” A poem by this author, which is addressed to “him who in the love of Nature holds/Communion with her visible forms,” tells the reader not to go “like the quarry-slave at night” as they prepare to “join the innumerable caravan.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Thanatopsis.”
William Cullen Bryant &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163780-)
In a play, a woman using one of these things interrupts an interrogation scene in which a man is asked questions like whether the number 846 is “possible or necessary” and whether the chicken or the egg came first. In that play, Stanley is given one of these objects by Lulu for his birthday. Poems like “Pioneers! O Pioneers!” and “1861” appear in a (*) Walt Whitman collection named after the “Taps” of these objects. A boy who owns one of these objects witnesses the death of his “father” Alfred as he chokes on a Nazi party pin, and decides to stop growing when he is three years old. For 10 points, name these percussion instruments, a Tin one of which titles a Gunter Grass novel about Oskar Matzerath.
drums [or toy drums; accept Drum-Taps or The Tin Drum] &lt;EA, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
3

163792-)
This poet wrote that “men eat of” the title concept “and die” in the poem “Fame is fickle food.” One poem by this author describes a “Plank in Reason” breaking, causing the speaker to “hit a world, at every plunge” and earlier describes “A Service, like a Drum” that causes the speaker’s mind to go (*) numb. Another poem by this author describes passing a “House that seemed/A Swelling of the Ground” while in a carriage, which held Immortality and a figure who “kindly stopped for me.” For 10 points, name this reclusive poet of “I felt a funeral, in my brain” and “Because I could not stop for Death.”
Emily Elizabeth Dickinson &lt;WG, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163811-)
One poem by this author describes how “irate Cyrus” split the “River Gyndes” into “three hundred and sixty trickles” during an age “of drafty cells and draftier castles.” In another poem by this author, the narrator calls herself “the arrow” that flies “into the red eye, the cauldron of morning” while riding a (*) horse. This author of “A Lesson in Vengeance” wrote a poem in which she tells the title figure “there’s a stake in your fat black heart.” That poem by this author is about “a man in black with a Meinkampf look.” For 10 points, name this female poet of “Ariel,” who used descriptions of Hitler to talk about her father in the poem “Daddy.”
Sylvia Plath &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163817-)
The narrator of this story tries biting off the corner of a “fairly-gnawed” bed in order to move it after dropping her room key out the window. The husband of this story’s narrator threatens to take her to the physician Weir Mitchell, a real-life figure who treated this story’s author. This story’s title object reminds the narrator of “fungus growths” that “shriek with derision,” and the maid Jennie remarks that it rubs off on the narrator’s clothes. The narrator of this story tells her husband “I’ve (*) got out at last” after freeing what she believes to be a “creeping” woman behind the title object. For 10 points, name this story titled for the horrid coverings of an old nursery, written by Charlotte Perkins Gilman.
“The Yellow Wallpaper” &lt;EA, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
3

163838-)
A poem titled for these objects opens with “a schooner beating up the Caribbean” that “could be Odysseus, / home-bound on the Aegean.” A novel titled after these objects ends with a man being breastfed by a woman who just gave birth to a stillborn baby. Derek Walcott wrote a collection titled after the “Sea” variety of these objects, and in the Count of Monte Cristo, Dantes refuses to eat these (*) fruits when offered to him by Mercedes. The protagonist of a novel titled after these fruits kills a police officer after his friend Jim Casy dies during a planters’ strike. For 10 points, name these fruits that title a novel about the Joad family’s move to California by John Steinbeck.
grapes [accept “Sea Grapes” or The Grapes of Wrath] &lt;EA, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
3

163841-)
In one poem by this author, a man “sunken to less than cinders” comes “out of [a] fire.” That poem, “Pool,” appears in this author’s collection Handfuls, which also includes a poem whose title subject “sits looking over harbor and city on silent haunches.” That subject “comes on (*) little cat feet.” Another poem by this author calls its “stormy, husky, brawling” subject the “Player with Railroads and the Nation’s Freight Handler,” along with the “City of Big Shoulders.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Fog,” who wrote about the “Hog Butcher for the World” in his poem “Chicago.”
Carl Sandburg [or Carl August Sandburg] &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163862-)
1. In one work by an author of this general ethnicity, Victor remembers losing the state basketball championship after looking at pictures of horrific injuries before the game. That author of this general ethnicity wrote about Victor’s trip to recover his father’s remains in “This Is What It Means To Say Phoenix, Arizona.” After Litsa Dremousis alleged that an author of this ethnicity had (*) sexually harassed over 20 women, the AILA rescinded its Young Adult Book Award for his novel The Absolutely True Diary of a Part-Time [person of this ethnicity]. For 10 points, name this ethnicity of Sherman Alexie, whose stories often feature people of this ethnicity on a Spokane reservation.
Native American [or American Indian; or Indigenous American; or Spokane until mentioned; prompt on Indigenous alone] &lt;TB, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
3

163874-)
The title character of one play by this author uses the money from his failed nightclub Walden Pond to start a newspaper which is said to endorse “no one,” though he is later encouraged to support Wally O’Hara. In another of this author’s plays, a woman is told that straightening her hair is “mutilation.” In that play by this author, both George Murchison and Joseph (*) Asagai compete for the affection of Benethea. Karl Lidner attempts to bribe the Younger family to prevent them from moving to an all-white neighborhood in Chicago in this author’s most famous play. For 10 points, name this author of The Sign in Sidney Brustein's Window and A Raisin in the Sun.
Lorraine Hansberry [or Lorraine Vivian Hansberry] &lt;WG, Drama&gt;
3

163880-)
In “Pafko at the Wall,” one person with this profession performs the shot heard round the world. That work about people with this profession was later used as the prologue to the novel Underworld by Don DeLillo. In a novel about people with this profession, Bump Bailey dies after running into a wall. The protagonist of that novel, who is earlier shot in the stomach by Harriet Bird, uses an object called (*) Wonderboy and is named Roy Hobbs. A poem about people with this profession ends by noting that “there is no joy in Mudville” because the title character “has struck out.” For 10 points, name this profession, the subject of The Natural and “Casey at the Bat.”
baseball players [accept more specific positions] &lt;WG, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163906-)
Moderator Note: emphasize first name, last name, and surname In Samuel Richardson’s novel Clarissa, a woman with this last name owns a brothel that the title character is tricked into entering. In a Herman Hesse novel, Max Demian tells the life story of a character with this surname whose first name is Emil. An author with this first name wrote works like Elmer Gantry and It Can’t (*) Happen Here, as well as one about residents of Gopher Prairie like Carol Kennicott. An author with this last name wrote a work about Jurgis Rudkus (“YER-giss RUD-kus”) that investigated the Chicago meatpacking district. For 10 points, give this surname of the author of The Jungle.
Sinclair [accept Mrs. Sinclair, Emil Sinclair, Sinclair Lewis, and Upton Sinclair] &lt;RY&gt;
5

163939-)
In one work by this author, magistrates are unsettled because the statue of “Una looks unlike her sisters," and in another, the skeleton of Alexandro Aranda is strung up on the figurehead of a boat. In another short story by this author of “The Bell Tower,” an unnamed Manhattan lawyer has three employees nicknamed (*) Nippers, Turkey, and Ginger Nut. Those stories were part of this author’s The Piazza (“PYA-tsa”) Tales. The main character in one of his novels is forced to share a bed with the tattooed Polynesian Queequeg at a crowded inn. For 10 points, name this American author of “Bartleby the Scrivener” and Moby Dick.
Herman Melville [Alexandro Aranda is in “Benito Cerano”] &lt;AD&gt;
5

163949-)
One character in this work refuses to attend her sister Janet’s wedding, calling weddings “one of the most lamentable spectacles on earth.” In this work, Dr. Mandelet interprets one character’s tale of a woman disappearing with her lover as a sign of that character’s infidelity. This novel’s protagonist weeps upon hearing a piano (*) impromptu played by Mademoiselle Reisz (“RICE”). After an affair with Alcée Arobin (“al-SAY a-ro-BAN”), a character feels guilty because of her other lover Robert Lebrun. This novel’s protagonist drowns herself in the Gulf of Mexico. For 10 points, name this novel about Edna Pontellier by Kate Chopin.
The Awakening &lt;RY&gt;
5

163976-)
This work describes a psychiatric hospital as a place “where we hug and kiss the United States under our bedsheets.” This poem asks about a “sphinx of cement and aluminum,” and multiple cities including New York, San Francisco, and Seattle are described as (*) “holy!” in the footnote to this poem. This poem’s second part repeats the name Moloch, and its third part repeats the line “I’m with you in Rockland” every other line. This poem opens “I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness.” For 10 points, name this Beat Generation poem by Allen Ginsberg.
“Howl” [accept “Howl for Carl Solomon”] &lt;RY&gt;
5

163997-)
This adjective appears in the title of a cycle of novels including one that follows Colonel Vorotyntsev; that cycle is by Solzhenitsyn. Much of a work with this adjective in its title takes place in the fictional Prospect Garden. A room of this color is used as a timeout room by Mrs. Reed for (*) Jane Eyre. The protagonist of one work with this color in its title is Henry Fleming, and an item of this color in a poem is “glazed with rain.” For 10 points, name this color that describes a wheelbarrow in a William Carlos Williams poem and another work’s title “badge of courage."
red [First clue about The Red Wheel; next is about Hong Lou Meng] &lt;RY&gt;
5

164006-)
Moderator note: Mathemagician, not mathematician, in third line In this work, five characters speak in synonyms and the main character meets Faintly Macabre (“ma-CAHB”) in jail. One character in this work can only see through things, and another introduces himself as “the smallest giant in the world.” In this book, on a mission that unites King Azaz and the (*) Mathemagician, the protagonist travels with a watchdog and a humbug through the Hills of Ignorance. That mission is to rescue Rhyme and Reason and bring them back to the Kingdom of Wisdom. For 10 points, name this book by Norton Juster about a boy who drives his toy car through the title object to a fantasy land.
The Phantom Tollbooth &lt;MS&gt;
5

164013-)
This author wrote in a work praised by Theodore Roosevelt and published in the collection The Torrent and the Night Before, “Go to the western gate.” In another work, this author wrote of a man who “loved the days of old” and “dreamed of Thebes and Camelot.” In one poem, this author of (*) “Luke Havergal” described an “imperially slim” “gentleman from sole to crown” whose life was admired by the poorer people around him. For 10 points, name this American poet who discussed a man “born too soon” in “Miniver Cheevy” and another who “went home and put a bullet through his head” in “Richard Cory.”
Edwin Arlington Robinson &lt;CO&gt;
5

164030-)
Description acceptable. In one literary work, Julien Bossuet (“bah-SWAY”) discovers that this has happened to Victorine Lafourcade (“vick-to-REEN la-foor-CAHD”). On his fourth voyage, Sinbad the Sailor learns of an island custom of doing this to widows and widowers, and in Charlotte Brontë’s novel Villette, Lucy encounters the ghost of a nun who died in this fashion. (*) Antigone (“an-TIG-uh-nee”) is ordered to undergo this action for defying Creon’s orders, and Montresor does this to a nobleman during Carnival as revenge. For 10 points, name this fate that befalls characters of Edgar Allan Poe short stories like Fortunato in “The Cask of Amontillado” (“a-mon-ti-YAH-doh”) and characters in “The Premature Burial.”
being buried alive [accept obvious equivalents; prompt on buried, entombment, etc.] &lt;RY&gt;
5

164040-)
In this work, justice is variously defined as “the art which gives good to friends and evil to enemies” and “the interest of the stronger.” This work analogizes the tripartite nature of the soul and claims that reproduction should be controlled by the state. One part of this work claims that adults must be killed to let a (*) philosopher-king to take over. In this work, a man chained to a wall refuses to believe the account of another recently-freed man in an allegory about prisoners looking at shadows. For 10 points, name this Socratic dialogue which includes the Allegory of the Cave, by Plato.
The Republic [accept Res Publica or Politeia] &lt;AJ&gt;
5

164069-)
Two sisters in this work spend their time making red velvet roses, and their father is shoved into a radiator in one scene. Two friends in this work plot to steal a green bag containing an old woman’s “inheritance,” and this novel opens with Robert Smith (*) jumping off the roof of a hospital, causing a pregnant Ruth to enter labor. A character in this novel hangs the bones of her father in a bag from the ceiling and is shot and killed by Guitar; that character is the navel-less Pilate. For 10 points, name this novel focusing on Milkman Dead by Toni Morrison, titled after a book of the Bible.
Song of Solomon &lt;RY&gt;
5

164078-)
In one work by this author, Pliny and Pitt are entertained by their uncle Rev. Wicks Cherrycoke’s stories. This author’s most recent novel follows the detective Maxine Tarnow in the days leading up to 9/11, and is titled Bleeding Edge. “Thurn und Taxis” and “Tristero” are rival mail companies in a short story by this author of (*) Mason &amp; Dixon. Along with that story about Oedipa Maas, this author of V. (“vee”) wrote a novel in which V-2 rocket strikes are correlated with the sexual encounters of Tyrone Slothrop. For 10 points, name this American author of The Crying of Lot 49 and Gravity’s Rainbow.
Thomas Ruggles Pynchon, Jr. &lt;CO&gt;
5

164102-)
In a work by this author, Harmond says that he is going to “be the mayor of everybody,” and after having an interview canceled, his wife Mame Wilks says “You jumped but I’m falling too.” Ester Tyler, first introduced in this man’s Gem of the Ocean, is a “washer of souls” who later dies at the supposed age of (*) 366 in this man’s King Hedley II. In a play by this man, an intellectually disabled man plays the trumpet signaling Armageddon and a father attempts to convince his son to play baseball instead of football. For 10 points, the play Fences is a part of what playwright’s Pittsburgh Cycle?
August Wilson [accept Frederick August Kittel, Jr.; first work is Radio Golf] &lt;AJ&gt;
5

164110-)
One book by this writer analyzes differences in human and animal sexual behavior, titled Why is Sex Fun? Another book of his begins by examining Montana’s society and environment, and this writer’s work in ornithology led him to meet people such as (*) Yali, whose question about “cargo” begins his most famous book. This geography professor’s Natural Experiments in History illustrates methods he used in books like The World Until Yesterday and a Pulitzer-winning book on geographic reasons for Eurasian world domination. For 10 points, name this writer of Collapse and Guns, Germs, and Steel.
Jared Diamond &lt;DM&gt;
5

164132-)
In one work by this author, Dave Saunders accidentally shoots the mule Jenny with a gun he has hidden from his mother. The second part of a memoir by this author is called “The Horror and the Glory”; in that work, the narrator becomes involved with the (*) Communist party through the magazine Left Front. This author wrote a novel in which two white people at Charlie’s Kitchen Stack demand to “experience black life” and Mary Dalton is suffocated by a pillow by Bigger Thomas. For 10 points, name this African-American author of Black Boy and Native Son.
Richard Wright [first clue is “The Man who was Almost a Man”] &lt;RY&gt;
5

164147-)
One member of this fictional family states, “None of us can help the things life has done to us. They’re done before you realize it.” A member of this family dies before the events of the work in which they appear after his brother infects him with measles, and this family’s patriarch is an actor who only performs (*) one role. At the end of the play in which they appear, this family’s matriarch holds her wedding gown after relapsing into her morphine addiction. This family’s youngest son contracts tuberculosis and is named Edmund. For 10 points, name this central family of Eugene O’Neill’s Long Day’s Journey into Night.
Tyrones [accept Mary Tyrone, Eugene Tyrone, James Tyrone, Edmund Tyrone] &lt;RY&gt;
5

164165-)
A boy expelled from school in this work confesses to stealing a letter which was supposed to be sent by the servant Luke. This work’s frame story is a manuscript being read at a party by Douglas. In this work, a woman realizes that a strange man she saw in a (*) tower turned away from her without breaking eye contact. The unnamed protagonist of this work refuses to go to church and tells Ms. Grose about a pale man with very red hair. This novella ends with Miles dying in his governess’ arms after yelling “Peter Quint—you devil!” For 10 points, name this ghost story by Henry James.
“The Turn of the Screw” &lt;RY&gt;
5

164176-)
. In this work, a character’s inability to thread a needle leads Judith to realize that he is pretending to be a girl. In this work, pig blood is used to fake a murder, and to pretend to be a “Sick Arab," one character is painted (*) blue. Sophie elopes with Harney in this work, ending a feud between the Grangerfords and Shepherdsons. In this novel, the play “The Royal Nonesuch” is a rip-off staged by characters nicknamed the Duke and the Dauphin, who sell the slave Jim for drinking money. For 10 points, name this Mark Twain novel centering on a friend of Tom Sawyer.
The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn &lt;RY&gt; BONUSES
5

