59775-)
This poem describes an "idling Spirit" which searches for mirrors of itself everywhere and "makes a toy of thought." The speaker of this poem pretended to study his books while he was actually lost in thought, but notes that when his door opened, "I snatched / A hasty glance, and still my heart leaped up / For still I hoped to see the stranger's face." Its speaker recalls "my sweet birthplace, and the old church tower / Whose bells, the poor man's only music, rang / from morn to evening," and is disappointed that he grew up "In the great city, pent 'mid cloisters dim," but takes comfort in the prospect of his son growing up in the countryside. The speaker broods over a film fluttering on a grate due to a low flame, while the title object of this poem "performs its secret ministry / Unhelped by any wind." For 10 points, name this nocturnal poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
"Frost at Midnight"
8

61545-)
A plain-spoken character in this play mocks courtly dialect by describing the "wreath of radiant fire/on flickering Phoebus' front." This play's title character gives an enraged speech beginning "O, reason not the need!" upon being stripped of his hundred (+) retainers. That title character of this work strips naked in a storm, accompanied by a Fool and Edgar, who is feigning madness. At the beginning of this play, one character laments that she cannot "heave [her] heart into [her] mouth," leading the title character to leave all his lands to (*) Regan and Goneril. For 10 points, name this tragedy by William Shakespeare.
The True Chronicle of the History of the Life and Death of King Lear and His Three Daughters
4

61762-)
Colley Cibber's adaptation of this work eliminated Queen Margaret, who curses the title character as a "bottled spider." The title character of this play murders Clarence in the Tower of London and states that he is "determined to prove a villain" because of his (*) hunchback. He dies at the Battle of Bosworth Field, exclaiming "A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!" For 10 points, name this Shakespeare history play in which the title monarch opens, "Now is the winter of our discontent / made glorious summer by the son of York."
Richard III
4

63780-)
This author expressed his love for his future wife Elizabeth Boyle in his sonnet sequence Amoretti. He never finished an allegory in which Duessa represents the Catholic Church, Britomart represents chastity, and Gloriana represents Queen Elizabeth I. His namesake stanza consists of eight lines of iambic pentameter followed by an alexandrine. For 10 points, name this sixteenth-century British poet of The Faerie Queene.
Edmund Spenser
3

65202-)
In one scene in this novel, the question of whether a glass should be drunk in or out of a certain room is settled by appealing to "the unbelief of Satan." In this novel, a man named Lanyon is so traumatized by a drug-induced scene that he dies. It begins when Mr. Enfield sees a doorway, where a man had previously run over a small child. Enfield's walking companion, the lawyer Utterson, attempts to solve some mysteries in this story, such as the servant Poole's frantic search for an unknown (*) chemical and the murder of Danvers Carew. One title character kills himself when is in unable to transform back in, for 10 points, what Robert Louis Stevenson novel about a physician who unleashes his evil side?
The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
5

65318-)
In one of this author's works, Thomas Jordan fires Baxter from his factory for throwing him down a flight of stairs. One of this author's characters abandons his wife Lottie and accompanies Rawdon Lilly to play the flute in Italy. In another of this author's novels, Gerald's relationship with Gudrun deteriorates due to his love for his friend, Birkin. This author of (*) Aaron's Rod and Women in Love wrote a novel in which Clara Dawes and Miriam Leivers fall in love with the protagonist, who cannot reciprocate due to his love for his mother Gertrude. For 10 points, name this British author, who created Paul Morel in Sons and Lovers.
D. H. Lawrence
5

65495-)
The protagonist of this novel makes several awkward attempts to get the adult Reginald Cardinal alone to explain the birds and the bees to him. In this novel, the kindly Dr. Carlisle helps the narrator with car trouble in the same town in which Harry Smith speaks about the dignity of the common man. At a conference in this novel, the French Dupont and the rest of the assembly reject the scheming American Lewis. The narrator of this novel struggles to learn to banter like (*) Mr. Faraday. By the end of this novel, the elderly narrator accepts that he has long been in love with Miss Kenton and that he worked for a Nazi sympathizer, Lord Darlington. For 10 points, name this Ishiguro novel about the butler Stevens.
The Remains of the Day
5

65824-)
Before the sixth book of this novel, called Aftercourses, the author includes a footnote saying the marriage that ends that book was forced on him by his editors. In this work, the protagonist’s mother comes to visit him while he is asleep, and she assumes he is avoiding her. On her way home, she collapses from the heat and is bitten by a snake, so her last words are what she says to Susan Nunsuch’s son. The protagonist of this novel works in the fields as a furze-cutter after excessive reading made him blind, to the dismay of his wife, a woman raised in Budmouth who hoped that by marrying him she could live a cosmopolitan life in Paris. That woman was originally in love with Damon Wildeve, who instead marries Thomasin, the protagonist’s cousin. For 10 points, name this work in which Clym Yeobright returns to Egdon Heath, a novel by Thomas Hardy.
The Return of the Native
9

65838-)
In the Preface to Lyrical Ballads, Wordsworth criticized this man's artificial diction in works like "Sonnet on the Death of Mr. Richard West." This man drew upon a Welsh legend that Edward I had all bards there put to death in a Pindaric ode, The Bard. In another poem, "the pensive Selima reclined / Gazed on the lake below" before "she tumbled headlong in" and drowns; that poem is "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat." The speaker of another poem watches schoolboys play and does not tell them of the sorrows they will experience in life, reasoning "where ignorance is bliss, / 'Tis folly to be wise." For 10 points, name this author who, in addition to “Ode to a Distant Prospect of Eton College,”  wrote “the curfew tolls the knell of parting day”  in “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard.”
Thomas Gray
9

67257-)
Early on in this work, an old woman mutters "Wel-a-wel-a-day" as she recounts the dangers presented by Lord Maurice, the "dwarfish" Hildebrand, and the "barbarian hordes."  In another section, this work compares Merlin's Demon debt with the protagonist's attempt to hide in a closet filled with "cates and dainties."  As it ends, the combination of the dragoons having drunk Rhenish wine and the cover provided by an "elfin storm" allows a pair of figures to slip out of the Baron's mansion and, with Angela's help, escape across the moors.  Composed in 1819, its 32nd stanza alludes to a poem by Alain Chartier that would be adapted by its author as "La Belle Dame Sans Merci."  Inspired by the belief that a virgin would see an image of her future husband after performing certain rites on a particular night, for 10 points, identify this work, about lovers Porphyro and Madeline, a poem by John Keats.
The Eve of Saint Agnes
8

67888-)
In this play, Jacomo directs an abbess and three of her nuns to be happy upon the construction of a new abbey. Later, a
friar is strangled with a belt, and another character, believing the friar to be alive, is charged with his murder after striking
him with a staff. The main character proclaims "As for myself, I walk abroad a- nights, And kill sick people groaning under
walls". A conflict caused by a forged letter leads to Mathias and Lodowick killing each other in a duel. The main character
has Ithamore deliver poisoned rice-porridge to a convent out of vengeance after his daughter Abigail joins. Later, he assists
an invading Turkish army and dies after falling into a boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name this play about the murderous
villain Barabas, written by Christopher Marlowe.
The Jew of Malta
7

67903-)
The protagonist of this novel declares his "natural antipathy" toward washes, which his wife "makes" for their daughters. One character's love interest saves her after she falls from her horse into a stream and later saves her sister from her marriage to Mr. Williams. In this novel, plans to frolic with city ladies are foiled when an informant spoils the good name of the central family, leading them to order Mr. Burchell to leave. One of the two weddings that end this novel involves George and Arabella Wilmot, and the other involves Sophia and Sir William Thornhill. Featuring the evil Squire Thornhill's attempts to ruin the Primrose family, for 10 points, name this novel about a family that has their fortune restored, written by Oliver Goldsmith.
The Vicar of Wakefield
7

68496-)
This novel's protagonist sees paratroopers shoot two women carrying babies in fighting near Phat Diem. This novel's protagonist remarks that "you can't blame the innocent...all you can do is control or eliminate them" in reference to a figure in this novel who is a believer in the theories of York Harding. The protagonist spends an evening in a watch tower with this novel's title figure, who saves his life after they run out of gas on a trip with him to a Cao Dai compound. Vigot later investigates the death of this novel's title figure after the protagonist realizes he asked his lover to stay away from a town square which sees a boming; the protagonist then orders the title figure's killing by the Vietminh. For 10 points, name this Graham Greene novel which sees the British journalist Fowler compete for the affections of the Vietnamese girl Phuong with the title figure, whose real name is Alden Pyle.
The Quiet American
9

69436-)
One of these poems by this author encourages its addressee to ";let Euclid rest, and Archimedes pause"; and dubs that addressee's grandfather a ";British Themis."; Another of these poems by this author begs its addressee ";Help us to save free conscience from the paw"; of Gospel-driven ";hireling wolves."; Cyriack Skinner is the addressee of two of these poems, a thirdof which laments the actions of ";Time, the subtle thief of youth."; One of these poems mentions a time ";when all our fathers worshipped stocks and stones"; and exhorts ";Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered saints, whose bones / Lie scattered on the Alpine mountains cold."; The speaker of another of these poems asks ";Doth God exact day-labour, light denied?"; and is assured by Patience that ";They also serve who only stand and wait."; For 10 points, name this group of 14- line poems including ";On the Late Massacre in Piedmont"; and ";When I Consider How My Light is Spent";, by the author of Paradise Lost.
sonnets by John  Milton [prompt on partial answers]
8

69589-)
Its third and fourth stanzas describe "all breathing human passion" and a 
"mountain-built with peaceful citadel." One stanza in this poem closes by 
describing a "heart high-sorrowful and cloy'd / a burning forehead and a parching
tongue," while the stanza after that one describes a "heifer lowing at the skies,
 / 
and all her silken flanks with garlands drest." The last stanza begins by calling 
the titular object a
 "fair attitude" and an "Attic shape," while the second line calls it 
"foster-child of Silence and slow Time." For 10 points, name this poem that begins 
"Thou still unravish'd bride of quietness" and closes with "beauty is truth, truth beauty," 
a poem about an artifact by John Keats.
"Ode on a Grecian Urn"
6

70094-)
This man once noted that there were precisely seventeen steps leading up to his apartment. His love interest is introduced in a story where Count von Kramm is actually the king of Bohemia, and at Reichenbach Falls, he is presumed [*] dead after a fistfight with his archrival. The brother of a government worker named Mycroft, this protagonist of The Sign of Four is opposed by Moriarty and loves Irene Adler. For 10 points, name this resident of 221B Baker Street London, an Arthur Conan Doyle character whose stories are narrated by his friend and biographer, Watson.
Sherlock Holmes [accept either name] [AJ]
3

70627-)
One character in this play says that "The youth of American is their oldest tradition" and that because of this, "As far as civilization goes they are in their second." That character is slapped across the face with his own glove in this play's final scene. The first act of this play contains a character often called "Kettle," Mr. Kelvil, and Lady Caroline nags Sir John while sitting on the terrace at Hunstanton Chase. The title phrase of this work is first mentioned to Mrs. Allonby after a question about the handwriting on a certain letter, and later the central character is almost killed due to his advances towards Hester Worley. The protagonist of this play offers the post of secretary to Gerald, whom he later realizes is his son by the title woman, Rachel Arbuthnot. The author featured "absolutely no action at all" in the first act of this play, responding to criticism about little action in his Lady Windermere's Fan. For 10 points, identify this play about Lord Illingworth, a work of Oscar Wilde.
A Woman of No Importance
9

70707-)
The seventh section of this work centers on a boy "six years' darling of a pigmy size," who is "shaped by himself with newly-learned art" and notes, "as if his whole vocation were endless imitation." This poem's final stanza remarks on the loveliness of "the innocent brightness of a new-born Day" and that "the meanest flowers" gives thoughts "too deep for tears." The fifth section of this work opens with the line, "our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting," and the author calls youth "radiance which was once so bright," in years featuring "the philosophic mind." This poem first appeared with an epigraph from Vergil's Fourth Eclogue, and many versions of this poem had the epigraph beginning "The Child is father of the Man" from an earlier poem by its author. This poem notes that "heaven lies about us in our infancy," and the poem opens with the realization that, "There was a time when meadow, grove, and stream" seemed "apparell'd in celestial light." Subtitled "From Recollections of Early Childhood," for 10 points, name this eleven part poem by William Wordsworth, an ode about memories and wisdom.
"Ode: Intimations of Immortality From Recollections of Early Childhood"
9

71436-)
The narrator of one of his poems rides down in a boat into an "immeasurable void" after traveling through ancient ruins in his poem "Alastor." The Peterloo massacre inspired this man's "The Masque of Anarchy"and the title phenomenon is described as "the awful shadow of some unseen power/ Floats though unseen among us" in his "Hymn to Intellectual Beauty." He called the title entity the "breath of Autumn's being" and asked "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind" in one poem, and a traveler described a statue with a "sneer of cold command" whose pedestal reads "'Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!'" For 10 points, identify this poet who wrote "Ode to the West Wind" and "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
6

72476-)
This author wrote of a god who "dwelleth i' the cold o' the moon" in a satire of Calvinism subtitled "Natural Theology in the Island." The speaker of another of his poems considers the "twenty-nine distinct damnations" he'll use to trap a hated colleague. The speaker of one of his poems has "a sudden thought of one so pale" upon looking into the eyes of his paramour. This author of (*) "Caliban upon Setebos" described the speaker's hatred of Brother Lawrence in his "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" and described Fra Pandolf's painting of a woman whose heart was "too soon made glad" in his best-known work. For 10 points, identify this author of the dramatic monologues "Porphyria's Lover" and "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning
5

72537-)
Reverend Tendril makes constant references in this novel to his time in India, and its protagonist owns Hetton Abbey, whose rooms are named for characters in Le Morte d'Arthur. The protagonist's wife feigns an interest in economics classes to facilitate an affair with a worthless son of an interior decorator named John Beaver and later marries (*) Jock Grant-Menzies. After refusing to divorce Brenda, this novel's protagonist joins an expedition led by Dr. Messinger to find a lost South American city, but ends up imprisoned by the half-caste trader Todd. Tony Last is subjected to the brutal torment of ceaselessly reading aloud works of Charles Dickens in, for 10 points, what work by Evelyn Waugh?
A Handful of Dust
5

72868-)
In one scene from this play a character is chased in the dark with an Electrolux by a man, who removed the lightbulb from its socket to plug in his vacuum. One character in this play claims his real name is Bernard Jenkins and constantly alleges he will go down to Sidcup to pick up his papers. Another character's recurring actions include discussing his plans to build a shed in the backyard and attempting to fix a plug with a screwdriver, and he reveals at the end of the second act that he was tortured with electroshock therapy. In this work's last act a man shatters his brother's Buddha statue, while talking to a vagrant who moved into his brother's cluttered apartment at the start of the play. For 10 points, name this drama in which the tramp Davies is offered the title position by Aston, written by Harold Pinter.
The Caretaker
7

72948-)
In the first act of this play, Lomax, Sarah's fiance, is mistaken for Sarah's brother.  Bill Walker is nearly brought to tears by the title character after he hits Jenny Hill after her conversion.  At the beginning of this play, Stephen discusses his inheritance with his mother. Said mother divorced her husband when he disowned Stephen because of the tradition of adopting a foundling as his heir.  The title character's fiance, a scholar of Euripedes named Cusins, is eventually converted to Andrew Undershaft's belief that weapons, rather than god, have the power of salvation.  For 10 points, name this Shaw play about an officer of the Salvation Army.
Major Barbara
7

72996-)
K, the protagonist of Kenzaburo Oe's novel Rouse Up O Young Men of the New Age, reflects on the works of this author, and references to him title the novel and all of its subsections. In one work, the title character laments that "The nations still/ Follow after the detestable gods of Priam," before entering into the speaker's foot. A character in another poem claims “Love seeketh only Self to please”, while in one poem he claimed he was offered “such a flower as May never bore.” Besides “The Clod and the Pebble” and “My Pretty Rose Tree” he also created mythological works featuring figures such as Albion, Los, Urizen, and Orc, as well as predicting revolutions in his Continental Prophecies. For ten points, identify this author of Milton, The Marriage of Heaven and Hell, and the Songs of Experience.
William Blake
7

73013-)
In one of this poet's works, the speaker describes himself as "imperially male" "the tall kingdom over your shoulder," and says to his lover "no treaty... will salve completely your tracked and stretchmarked body." In another poem, he describes a procedure for unclogging an inced-over pump. As well as "Act of Union" and "Rite of Spring," this author wrote a poem describing a "rat-gray fungus" growing over the fruit collected by the speaker and his friends. He also created works describing a boy collecting jars of frog spawn and another about his father's efforts with a potato drill. He also wrote a poem describing the type of location where the Great Irish Elk was found, which he speculates are bottomless locations caused by Atlantic seepage. For ten points, name this poet of "Blackberry-picking," "Death of a Naturalist," "Digging," and "Boglands," also known for his translation of Beowulf.
Seamus Heaney
7

73302-)
He addressed a "daughter of Jove" and asked "Teach me to love and forgive" in one work, and he wrote that "A wondrous boy shall Rinda bear" and discussed Hoder's death in another poem. He is not Coleridge, but this author of Ode to Adversity and The Descent of Odin, wrote "Awake, Aeolian lyre, Awake" to begin another of his poems. More famously, he wrote that "where ignorance is bliss/ tis folly to be wise" in one poem, and one which begins with the line "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." The author of odes on The Progress of Poesey, the Distant Prospect of Eton College, and the Death of a Favourite Cat, Drowned in a Tub of Goldfishes, for 10 points, name this author of Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard.
Thomas Gray
7

73773-)
The tenth section of this work ends with the lines, “a sense death-like of treacherous desertion, felt in the last place of refuge, my soul”. The sixth section of this work is subtitled “Human Nature Seeming Born Again” and also discusses crossing Simplon Pass with the lines “That very day, from a bare ridge we also first beheld unveiled the summit of Mont Blanc”. This work begins with the line, “O there is blessing in this gentle breeze”, and its first section is entitled “Introduction, Childhood, and School-time”. For 10 points, name this work, subtitled “Growth of a Poet’s Mind”, an autobiographical poem in blank verse by William Wordsworth.
"The Prelude; or, Growth of a Poet's Mind"
7

74445-)
One couplet from this poem notes that "Scotists and Thomists, now, in Peace remain/amidst their kindred Cobwebs in Duck Lane." Another portion of this poem compares "La Mancha's knight" to "Dennis, of the Grecian stage;" leading its addressed, John Dennis, to bitterly criticize this work. This work advises against letting "ten low words" "creep in one dull line" in a section where the speaker explains that one can expect "the cooling western breeze" to rhyme with "whispers through the trees" and "with pleasing murmurs creep" with the word "sleep." As it opens, the speaker is unsure if "greater want of (*) skill" lies with the title activity. The source of the lines "to err is human, to forgive Divine," "fools rush in where angels fear to tread," and "a little learning is a dangerous thing," for 10 points, identify this satirical poetic exposition about "judging Ill," written by Alexander Pope.
"Essay on Criticism"
7

74479-)
The speaker of one of this author’s poems spends “a tedious twelve hours’ space” loving a woman who questions his fidelity. Another of his speakers will “create/A genuine summer in each other’s breast” with the title creature, a “poor verdant fool!” that “swing’st upon the waving ear.” This author of “The Scrutiny” would not appease “the foaming blue god’s rage” and would withstand any “blast or gale” for a character to whom he admits “true,  a new mistress I now chase,” pleading her to “tell me not, sweet, I am unkind.” This poet of “The Grasshopper” compared himself to “committed (*) linnets” and notes that “love with unconfined wings/Hovers within my gates.” He wrote the lines “I could not love thee (Deare) so much/Lov’d I not Honour More” and “Stone walls do not a prison make, Nor iron bars a cage.” For 10 points, identify this poet of the Lucasta poems and “To Althea from Prison.”
Richard Lovelace
7

75441-)
One speaker in this poem remembers “They called me the hyacinth girl” after quoting a German song that translates
to “Fresh blows the Wind.” This poem notes the “falling towers” of “Jerusalem Athens Alexandria Vienna London.”
This poem also references an “unreal city” and a “famous clairvoyante” with “a bad cold” and “a wicked deck of
cards.” Madame Sosotris appears in the section of this poem called “The Burial of the Dead” which opens with the
line “April is the cruelest month.” For 10 points, name this poem which ends with the Sanskrit mantra “Shantih
shantih shantih,” a work of T.S. Eliot.
The Waste Land
6

76390-)
This author's late novels St. Leon and Mandeville were commercial failures. He attacked the law as “inevitably corrupt” and coined the term “philosophical anarchism” in his tract Enquiry Concerning Political Justice. Charles Brockden Brown was heavily influenced by his novel about the despotic Squire Tyrrel. That novel's characters include the brooding, cultured Lord Falkland and the title character, who eventually goes mad. He lived in a separate house from his wife, Mary Wollstonecraft. For 10 points, identify this father of Mary Shelley, an English author who pioneered the psychological novel with Caleb Williams.
William Godwin
7

76480-)
One of his works notes, "Poets themselves must fall, like those they sung" and another states "in my breast the serpent Love abides" and is addressed to Dr. Garth. In addition to Pastorals and Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady, one of his works states "curse on all laws but those which love has made" and another that seeks to "vindicate the ways of God to man". In addition to writing Eloisa to Abelard, another of his works, written in heroic couplet, has characters that name moons of Uranus such Umbriel, Ariel and Belinda, and he also
wrote An Essay on Manand The Dunciad. FTP, identify this British poet who wrote about the cutting of a piece of hair in The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope
3

76511-)
An interpretation of this work discusses its use of Old Testament references in the mentioning of "the sad heart of Ruth". In one stanza, the speaker is “In Love with easeful death”, declaring that it is best to die with the title figure “pouring out thy soul abroad.” Before that he declares that he will “fly to thee” on “the wingless views of poesy.” Opening with the lines “a drowsy numbness pains/my sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk”, it ends with the speaker listening to “thy plaintive emblem fade” and asking “Do I wake or sleep”. Another stanza opens with the lines “Thou wast not born for death, Immortal bird/ Nor hungry generations tread thee down”. FTP, name this Keats poem about a kind of bird.
Ode to a Nightingale
3

76520-)
He wrote about a Hawaiian man named Keawe who buys a strange bottle in The Bottle Imp, a short story that appeared in his collection Island Nights’ Entertainment. In one of this author's work, the protagonist discovers that his uncle is part of the wealthy House of Shaw and in his attempt to find him, is forced to flee through the Scottish Highlands. He wrote a short story about a story told by Mr. Enfield to Mr. Utterson and another work concerns a character that starts as a cook on the Hispaniola, the narrator Jim Hawkins, Captain Flint and a reward of 700,000 pounds of gold. FTP, name this author who wrote The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde as well as Treasure Island.
Robert Louis Stevenson
3

76531-)
Many of the themes of this work appear to be influenced by Boethius’s Consolation of
Philosophy. One scene tells of an apprentice named Perkins while another part describes who
could make a cream sauce using an ulcer on his shin. In one part, a group of Jews kill a singing
Christian child and then are killed themselves while in another part, Arcite and Palamon compete
for the love of Emily, who is married to Duke Thesues. In one section, a group of three immoral
young men kill each other over a treasure after they attempt to kill Death while another section is
about a woman who has been married five times. FTP, a group of 29 religious pilgrims each tell
stories while traveling to the tomb of Saint Thomas Becket in what work by Geoffrey Chaucer?
The Canterbury Tales
3

76561-)
This author wrote a work concerning a ship in the Gulf of Siam in which the captain encounters a naked man named Leggatt. In addition to The Secret Sharer, short stories by this man include Amy Foster and The Warrior’s Soul. In one work by this author, Winnie commits suicide after she is betrayed by the anarchist Alexander Ossipin, while another of his works concerns a silver mine opened by Charles Gould in the fictional Costaguana. In another work by this author, the titular character serves as first mate aboard the Patna, a vessel whose crew abandon ship after it springs a leak while transporting Muslim pilgrims to Mecca. In addition to The Secret Agent and Nostromo, one work by this author sees the ivory trader Marlow travel deep into Africa to meet Kurtz. FTP, name this author of Lord Jim and The Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad (accept Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski)
3

76648-)
In one of this poet’s works, one of the title characters describes how the other title
character lives in “the cold o’ the moon” and mentions how Miranda and Prospero sleep while
another work opens with the lines “Grow old along with me! The best is yet to be”. In addition to
Caliban upon Setebos and Rabbi Ben Ezra, this author wrote one work which describes a heart
“too soon made glad, too easily impressed” in describing the titular adulterous figure while in
another work, the speaker states “I’m my own master, paint now as I please” in describing an
artist from the Italian Renaissance. FTP, identify this author of Fra Lippo Lippi and My Last
Duchess.
Robert Browning
3

76668-)
In a parody of this book, the narrator sees a ";Giant Transcendentalist"; after leaving an area where flammable gas is collected in pipes and used to light two lengthy rows of red lamps. The organization of this book inspired that of a novel whose characters include a Belgian count fond of painting horses and a large black man nicknamed Jean Le Negre. An epigraph ";adapted from"; this book opens Little Women, whose first chapter depicts the young March sisters playacting its events. A parody of this book ends with the protagonist throwing himself off a boat when smoke emits from the nose of Mr. Smooth-it-Away, only to wake from a dream. The warden in E. E. Cummings' The Enormous Room is named for a character from this novel, whose settings are traversed by train tracks in Nathaniel Hawthorne's ";The Celestial Railroad."; For 10 points, name this book which features the demon Apollyon, the Slough of Despond, and Vanity Fair, an allegory by John Bunyan.
The Pilgrim's Progress
8

76672-)
This author urged the addressee to "let me / behold that circum-mortal purity" in a poem about his desire to be "ravished in that fair Via Lactea". In another poem, he says that the title fruits grow in the plantations of a land where his beloved's ";lips do smile."; This poet of "Cherry-Ripe" enjoins the addressee of another poem to receive a set of "Orient pearls" while "the light / hangs on the dew-locks of the night". That poem by this man encourages the title woman to "sin no more, as we have done by staying". This poet claims to see "a wild civility" in a "careless shoestring" that "do more bewitch me, than when art / is too precise in every part" in a poem about the charms of messy women. This author of a series of poems about Julia encouraged the reader to "gather ye rosebuds while ye may" in his most famous poem. For 10 points, name this author of "Corinna's Going a-Maying", "Delight in Disorder", and "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time".
Robert  Herrick
8

76686-)
A novel titled for this character introduces a love interest named Herman, who is a SoHo rentboy, and centers on a video installation titled ";Cathode Narcissus."; The author of the poetry collection Silverpoints and the short story ";The Person in Question"; likely inspired thischaracter, who expresses a desire for ";the dead lovers of the world to hear our laughter and grow sad"; after vowing ";I want to make Romeo jealous."; This protagonist of an ";Imitation"; by Will Self is reassured that ";the books that the world calls immoral are the books that show the worldits own shame"; when he becomes concerned about the degree to which a novel about the exploits of a Frenchman is influencing him. During a meeting with Adrian Singleton at an opium den, a woman calls this character ";Prince Charming,"; a nickname overheard by James Vane, thebrother of his former love interest Sibyl. For 10 points, name this young man whose portrait is painted by Basil Hallward in a novel by Oscar Wilde.
Dorian Gray [accept either underlined portion]
8

76698-)
A character in this novel who is obsessed with capturing the "ignobly decent" fights his way through a house fire to retrieve the manuscript of his novel Mr Bailey, Grocer. Another character in this novel maintains a long-running grudge against Clement Fadge, who gives the protagonist his first break at The Current. Harold Biffen commits suicide in this novel after an encounter in which Mr. Whelpdale reveals his engagement to Dora, the protagonist's sister. That protagonist breaks his engagement with Marian Yule after her father Alfred goes blind, leaving her poor; later, the protagonist marries Amy, the widow of his artistically-uncompromising foil Edwin Reardon. For 10 points, name this novel about the literary journalist Jasper Milvain set in the19th-century home of hack writers in London, the most famous novel by George Gissing. 
New Grub Street
8

76734-)
This author was accused of serving up a ";perennial dish: the tragedy of the Fine Girl and the Impossible Man"; in an essay by Elizabeth Hardwick. The title character of this author's final novel is accidentally shot dead by her illegally-adopted deaf-and-dumb son Jeremy at Victoria Station shortly after Henry Dancey declares his love for her. The Montmorencys and Marda Norton visit the Naylors' estate Danielstown, based on this author's family's namesake ";court,"; in a novel set during the Irish War of Independence. Robert Kelway kills himself after revealing his status as a Nazi spy to his lover Stella Rodney in a novel by this woman set during the Blitz. The revelation that her adoptive mother Anna has been reading her diary prompts Portia Quayne to run away in a novel by this author of Eva Trout and The Last September. For 10 points, name this Anglo-Irish author of The Heat of the Day and The Death of the Heart.
Elizabeth  Bowen [or Elizabeth Dorothea Cole  Bowen]
8

76755-)
In one story, a person of this profession listens to a debate between a pelican and a griffin. In another literary work, a man of this non-knight profession gives Jesus his armor for the latter's joust against Lucifer in Jerusalem. A person with this profession explains stone props that are "Against the World" and "Against the Flesh". That person with this profession tears up a pardon that explains that the Devil shall have the soul of those who do evil, after a priest disputes the pardon. Chaucer describes a pilgrim of this profession as "living in peace and perfect charity;" that character is the only pilgrim besides the Knight's Yeoman and the Five Guildsmen not to tell a tale of his own. A character of this profession explains the Tree of Charity to a poet named Will, while guiding him on his quest to Saint Truth. For 10 points, name this profession of the title character of a 14th-century allegory by William Langland, a certain Piers.
plowman [or ploughman; prompt on "peasant" or "farmer"]
8

76777-)
A short poem by this poet begins and ends all 3ve stanzas with the words "now" and "me," respectively, as in, "Now lies the earth all Danae to the stars, and all thy heart lies open unto me." Another of his poems spoken by a shepherd instructs a maid to "cease...to set a star upon the sparkling spire" and "let the wild lean-headed eagles yelp alone," inviting her to the valley where she will hear "the moan of doves in immemorial elms, and murmuring of innumerable bees." Another poem by this man invokes "the 3rst beam glittering on a sail that brings our friends up from the underworld" and "the earliest pipe of half-awakened birds to dying ears" in a series of similes leading into nostalgic refrains about "the days that are no more." His narrative poem The Princess includes the interpolated lyrics "Now sleeps the crimson petal," "Come down, O maid," and "Tears, idle tears." For 10 points, name this Victorian poet who also wrote "The Lady of Shalott."
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
8

76797-)
This character declares, "thou to me art all things under heaven," in an embedded sonnet alluding to dreams "some great good presaging." This character recalls, "I started back, it started back, but pleased I soon returned," as she observed the "smooth wat'ry image" of her own re6lection. This character's "unadorned golden tresses" wave "in wanton ringlets...as the vine curls her tendrils," in contrast to the shoulder-length "hyacinthine locks" of her husband. This character wonders at the "language of man pronounced by tongue of brute" when a creature "erect amidst his circling spires" praises her, a7ter which he o5fers to lead her to the tree whose fruit gave him the power of speech. A squadron of angels with a 6laming sword drive this character and her husband from the title location of an English epic. For 10 points, name this character from Paradise Lost, the wife of Adam.
Eve
8

76842-)
Nicholas puts a frog in his bread-and-milk and enters the title place in one work by this writer, and
in another, a family and bachelor discuss a “horribly good” girl named Bertha who’s three behavior 
medals lead to her gruesome death. In addition to “The Lumber Room”, he penned a story that sees 
Amanda lose it after seeing an otter and an Egyptian boy. In one famous short story, Mr. Nuttel runs
away after Mrs. Sappleton’s
 (*) husband and dog come through the titular window. Besides “The Story-
Teller” and “Laura”, he may be best remembered for a story in which wolves unexpectedly come to Ulrich 
and Georg, who had just resolved their differences upon being stuck under a fallen tree.
For 10 points, 
name this Burmese-Scottish short story writer of “The Open Window” and “The Interlopers” whose 
penname may or may not come from the cupbearer in 
The Rubaiyat.
Saki or Hector Hugh Munro
9

76942-)
This essay contrasts the Man of Science, “who seeks truth as a remote and unknown benefactor,” with the Poet, who sees it “as our visible friend and hourly companion,” though the latter is ready to transfigure science and make it “familiarized to men.” It also dismisses a Samuel Johnson poem by claiming “Why take pains to prove that an ape is not a Newton, when it is self-evident he is not a man,” and claims there are only five good lines in a Thomas Gray sonnet when it makes its argument for the merit of prosaic rhythm. It pronounces poetry to be (*) “the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings,” which begin in “emotion recollected in tranquility,” and suggests that poets should look more to “common life” and “the language really used by men.” For 10 points, name this manifesto of British Romanticism that introduces a poetry collection including “Goody Blake and Harry Gill,” “The Idiot Boy,” and “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner,” written by William Wordsworth.
The Preface to the Lyrical Ballads [accept obvious equivalents; it doesn't matter if they use a synonym for "preface", but don't accept or prompt on Lyrical Ballads by itself]
9

76954-)
In one of this author's stories, a girl named Needle is killed and buried in a haystack, while
another focuses on Dafne's relationship with the title animal. Besides "Bang-Bang You're Dead"
and "The Go-Away Bird", Ben chases after Carmelita and Dora because of the literary reputations
of their fathers in "The Father's Daughters", which found a sequel in "Open to the Public." Fathers
Baudouin and Maximilian are hired by Alexandra in a satire of the Watergate scandal set in a
priory, and this author wrote of how Guy Leet, who had an affair with Charmian Colston, is denied
Lisa Brooke's estate because she was blackmailed by Mrs. Pettigrew. Besides The Abbess of Crewe
and (*) Memento Mori, this author created Meadows Meade, where Merle Coverdale and Dixie Morso
work as typists in a novel which sees Dixie rejected by Humphrey Place at the urging of Dougal Douglas.
Another of this author's novels sees the title character fall in love with Mr. Lloyd and teach girls such as
Mary Macgregor, Rose Stanley, and Sandy Stranger. For 10 points, name this British author of The Ballad
of Peckham Rye and The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.
Dame Muriel Spark
9

77010-)
This novel's protagonist is given a small amber cross by her brother along with two chains, one 
from her suitor and one from a cousin, and one character in this work claims Shakespeare
 "is a part
of an Englishman's constitution" after giving a captivating reading of 
Henry VIII
. The protagonist 
visits her home in Portsmouth, where she meets her sister Susan, while her brother William is 
promoted thanks to the machinations of a suitor who shames the Grants into leaving as well as 
prompting (*)
 Rushworth to divorce his wife when he runs off with Maria. The owner of the title location 
returns from managing his slaves in Antigua, and raised his niece at the urging of Mrs. Norris, and that 
niece rejects Henry Crawford and marries Edmund Bertram. For 10 points, name this novel about Fanny 
Price, a work of Jane Austen.
Mansfield Park
9

78417-)
Peter Hall's 1967 debut of this play has four of its characters simultaneously light cigars from the same match before drawing back, a choice which has been adopted by most subsequent stagings. This play opens with one character reading a newspaper and arguing with another about which horses are likely winners. Another of its characters recalls the time he and his brother had sex with a pair of women at a bombed out building during the Blitz. In this play's second act, one character prompts an argument by eating a cheese roll another had left out. Its lone female character says "if you take the glassÂ… I'll take you" during a sexually charged argument over a (*) glass of water. This play opens when the philosophy professor Teddy and his wife Ruth return from America in the middle of the night, prompting a power struggle between Teddy and his brothers Lenny and Joey and his father, the retired butcher Max. For 10 points, name this play by Harold Pinter.
Homecoming
9

78425-)
One of this man's poems is titled after a character who will "hear no more the lowing of the valves on the warm hillside" or "see the brown mice bob round and round the oatmeal chest." That poem is set at a "leafy island where flapping herons wake the drowsy water rats" and where hidden fairy vats are "full of berries and of the reddest stolen cherries." That poem by this man includes a refrain telling a "human child" to come away because "the world's more full of weeping than you can understand." The narrator of a second poem notes that (*) "the years to come seemed waste of breath, a waste of breath the years behind." That narrator says "no likely end could bring them loss or leave them happier than before" after claiming "those that I fight I do not hate those that I guard I do not love." That poem by this man concerns a man driven to the clouds by "a lonely impulse of delight." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Stolen Child" who wrote "I know that I shall meet my fate somewhere among the clouds above" in his poem an "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death."
William Butler Yeats
9

78428-)
A Max Beerbohm essay titled after this character describes how his friend Robert Coates was tricked into portraying him by a woman he had played an earlier prank on. In William Inge's Bus Stop, Dr. Lyman portrays him in an impromptu performance Elma puts on while the passangers are stranded in the restaurant. Nicholas Nickleby makes his debut with Vincent Crummles' troupe by playing this character. This character says that "love goes toward love, as schoolboys from their books, but love from love, toward school with heavy looks." He compares his lips to (*) "two blushing pilgrims, [that] ready stand to smooth that rough touch with a tender kiss" in a meeting scene in which his dialogue joins with his lover's dialogue to form a sonnet. This character, who describes himself as "fortune's fool," claims that another character "doth teach the torches to burn bright" and wishes "that I were a glove upon that hand, that I might touch that cheek!" For 10 points, name this Shakespeare character whose finals lines are "O true apothecary! Thy drugs are quick. Â— Thus with a kiss I die."
Romeo
9

78432-)
Description acceptable. One character in this part of a longer work explains the ancient custom of punishing patricide by placing someone in a sack with a cock, a monkey, and a serpent and then throwing them into the sea. During this section, the ticking of one character's pocket watch accentuates his description of a vision of a great clock that ceaselessly ticks the words: ever, never, ever, never. James Thrane conclusively showed that this piece draws heavily from a 17th century Italian pamphlet by Giavanni Pinamonti, while Don Gifford and others have shown that its narrative structure is based on Ignatius's spiritual exercises. Just after this passage, the protagonist of the novel in which it appears vomits painfully when he awakens from a dream in which he is menaced by six goat-like creatures. This passage, which is set over a period of three days during a (*) retreat at Belvedere College, causes that protagonist to regret leaving foul letters where he knew innocent girls would find them. This passage opens with a discussion of Satan's "non serviam" and includes an explanation of the cruel worm's "triple sting," the three psychological ways in which a sinner will suffer. For 10 points, name this monologue that causes Stephen Dedalus to confess his sins and temporarily enter a life of extreme spirituality.
Father Arnall's hell sermon from A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man [accept any answers indicating it's a sermon from Portrait or that it's a sermon delivered by Arnall]
9

78442-)
One poet from this polity authored the collections One Foot in Eden and Chorus of the Newly Dead, and together with his wife Willa Anderson was a notable translator of authors such as Leon Feuchtwanger, Gerhard Hauptmann, and Franz Kafka. Another poet from this polity was a communist whose volumes included First Hymn to Lenin and who also wrote a long poetic monologue titled "A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle." The title character of an epic poem by a writer from this polity competes with Ralph (*) de Wilton for the love of Clare during the subtitular conflict, while another poem from this polity begins with "three kings great and high" swearing to kill the title character. This region was once home to a poet best known for his four-part nature poem titled The Seasons, James Thomson, as well as the authors of Marmion and "John Barleycorn," and several poets from this polity wrote poetry in its native dialect known as lallans. For 10 points, identify this modern-day polity, a country once home to the poets Edwin Muir, Hugh MacDiarmid, and Robert Burns.
Scotland [prompt on "United Kingdom," or "Great Britain," do not accept "England" for obvious reasons]
9

78447-)
This critic characterized the subject of one of his essays as "not, strictly speaking, a novelist," but rather an author of "Cautionary Tales," in his essay on the author of Miss Lonelyhearts, "West's Disease." This critic wrote of the difficulty of grasping the "syllabic verse" of the author of "The Pangolin," in his essay on Marianne Moore, whom he grouped with D.H. Lawrence as one of two "bestiaries." In an essay whose title reverses the order of two figures that title a chapter of Henry Adams' Mont St. Michel and Chartres, this critic claimed that Adams, in worshipping Venus, actually worshipped the second title figure of "The Virgin and the Dynamo." This critic borrowed from the Biographia Literaria the distinction between Primary and Secondary Imagination that he explored in a lecture later published as (*) "Making, Knowing, and Judging," and drew on the example of Don Quixote and Sancho Panza in an essay analyzing the master-servant relationship in literature, "Balaam and His Ass." For 10 points, identify this critic whose studies of, among other things, Shakespeare, are collected in the volume The Dyer's Hand.
W[ystan] H[ugh] Auden
9

78456-)
The speaker of this poem notes that "Fame is the spur that the clear spirit doth raise" after wondering why he doesn't "sport with Amaryllis in the shade" like others do. As this poem ends, "the still morn went out with sandals gray," and its speaker "rose, and twitch'd his mantle blue," to leave for "fresh woods, and pastures new." Near the end of this poem, its title character is said to "[trick] his beams, and with new spangled ore [flame] in the forehead of the morning sky." The speaker of this poem poses as (*) unready to write it, saying that he comes "Yet once more" to pluck the Muses' "berries harsh and crude / And with forc'd fingers rude." Its speaker asks "Where were ye, Nymphs, when the remorseless deep clos'd o'er the head of" its title character, referencing his death by drowning. For 10 points, name this pastoral elegy for Edward King, a mid-length poem by John Milton.
"Lycidas" 
9

78464-)
Two characters in this story escape the suspicion of a cop by claiming that one of them is getting checked for a growth on his neck. One character in this story mutes the volume on the television to laugh at the characters, and her son uses this as an excuse to explain away his role in a bakery theft. This story's protagonist resolves to work the worst jobs in his residence for his remaining six months as a means of asserting his independence from individuals he describes as "old Hitler-face" and "the (*) governor." Despite his superior talent, this story's protagonist allows some boys from Aylesham and Gunthorpe to surpass him. For 10 points, name this short story about the speedy delinquent Colin Smith, who intentionally loses the All-England Borstal Blue Ribbon Prize Cup, written by Angry Young Man Alan Sillitoe.
 "The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner" 
9

78701-)
This poet notes “even I regained my freedom with a sigh” in the poem “The Prisoner of Chillon.” This poet wrote a 
poem that observes, “the Assyrian came down like the wolf on the fold” as well as a poem claiming “all that's best of 
dark and bright meet in her aspect and her eyes.”
 This poet wrote “The Destruction of Sennacherib” and “She Walks in 
Beauty.” This poet is best known for writing a poem about the titular Spanish figure in a seventeen-canto unfinished 
poem. For 10 points, name this Romantic poet who died fighting in the Greek War of Independence and wrote 
Childe 
Harold's Pilgrimage
 and 
Don Juan.
Lord Byron [accept George Gordon]
4

81047-)
Perelandra is the second book in this author's Space Trilogy, which centers on Elwin Ransom. A character known as the Patient is the subject of the correspondence between Wormwood and the title demon in his The (*) Screwtape Letters, and he also wrote a work of apologetics entitled Mere Christianity. His most famous series contains works like The Magician's Nephew and follows the Pevensie children. For 10 points, name this author of The Chronicles of Narnia, which opens with The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.
Clive Staples Lewis
3

81854-)
A one act play by Jonathan Reynolds sees Rupert Murdoch's inability to recite this work launch his career in newspapers. The speaker compares his childhood adventures to a "man flying from something that he dreads," and imagines a hermit "in the houseless woods." The poet recollects the scenery in "'mid the din of towns and cities" and the "heavy burthen" of the "unintelligible world" is lightened at the title locale, whose "green pastoral landscape" has grown "more dear" to the speaker. The speaker recalls a gap of five years after a visit to the title location with sister Dorothy in, for 10 points, what poem about a trip to the River Wye, by William Wordsworth.
"Tintern Abbey" [or "Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey, on Revisiting the Banks of the River Wye;" accept "Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey, Part II" until "this work."]
6

81901-)
One character in this work states that female devils have clefts and cloven feet, while the males have horns.  Another character in this work heats congealed blood over a fire, and the words “Homo fuge” are inscribed on the arm of the title character, who knows not where he should fly. That title character calls his servants, Valdes and Cornelius, to bring him books on necromancy.  After he has the books, his first act of magic is to summon a devil, who will become his servant for the next twenty-four years.  For 10 points, name this play in which the title character summons Mephastophilis and sells his soul to the devil, a work by Christopher Marlowe.
Doctor Faustus
6

82542-)
One of these works equates "lust in action" with "the expense of spirit in a waste of shame." In one, the poet demands "Pluck the keen teeth from the fierce tiger's jaws" and "blunt thou the lion's paw" in an address to "devouring Time." One of them speaks of a thought that "is as a death which cannot choose/ But weep to have, that which it fears to lose." One mentions "Bare ruin'd choirs, where late the sweet birds sang" and another ends "So long lives this, and this gives life to thee." For 10 points, name this set of works with such characters as the Rival Poet, the Fair Youth, and the Dark Lady, which include "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?"
William Shakespeare's Sonnets [prompt on partial answers like works of Shakespeare or Sonnets]
5

82784-)
One character in this work disagrees with her friend’s use of the word “mystery,” arguing “muddle” is more appropriate. Two characters in this novel avoid seeing the play Cousin Kate, but are accosted by Mr. Turton, while letters from brothel owners and a pair of broken glasses are used as evidence against one character. This novel begins with two women arriving in hopes of the younger marrying the magistrate Ronny Heaslop, while the latter, Mrs. Moore befriends the protagonist at a Chandrapore mosque. For 10 points, name this novel where an encounter at the Marabar Caves causes Adela Quested to accuse Dr. Aziz of rape, by E.M. Forster.
A Passage to India
5

83699-)
The title character of one of his poems sends "his Train / To take a House in Warwick Lane" before trying to
seize the title character for "Pluto's hall." In addition to "Death and Daphne," he described man as "a topsy-turvy
creature" in "A Meditation upon a Broomstick." He foretold the death of John Partridge in Prediction for the
Ensuing Year by Isaac Bickerstaff, argued against poorly minted copper coinage in The Drapier's Letters, and wrote
about the brothers Jack, Peter, and Martin, who each inherit a coat in The Tale of a Tub. For 10 points, name this
author of “A Modest Proposal” who described the lands of Brobdingnag and Laputa in Gulliver's Travels.
Jonathan Swift
6

86649-)
He's not Hector Berlioz, but he falls in love with an actress after seeing her performance in Romeo and Juliet. Revealing himself only as "Prince Charming", he rebuffs her after a terrible performance, leading to her suicide. James Vane learns the truth while investigating that suicide, but is shot before he can accuse this man. He also blackmails Alan Campbell into covering up the murder of Basil Hallward, before committing suicide by stabbing a portrait of himself. For 10 points, name this man who stays young as his picture ages in an Oscar Wilde novel.
Dorian Gray (accept either)
5

87589-)
Andrew Marvell used one of their two chief Roman models for his poem about Cromwell's return from Ireland. A comic one by Thomas Gray ends "Nor all that glisters, gold," and tells of Selima's death in a tub of goldfish. Wordsworth's most famous notes "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting" and shows "Intimations of Immorality." Another Romantic one ends "Fled is that music-Do I wake or sleep?", and another declares "Beauty is truth, truth beauty." For 10 points, name this lyric form that Keats used to discuss a nightingale and a Grecian Urn.
ode
5

87606-)
James Callifer's uncle had brought that character back to life in the title structure of this author's play The Potting Shed. He wrote about Maurice Castle's treachery being blamed on Arthur Davis in The Human Factor, while Pinkie Brown attempts to kill the waitress Rose in his Brighton Rock. This author may be better remembered for creating the characters Alden Pyle and Major Scobie and writing about the death of a Mexican priest. For 10 points, name this British author of The Quiet American, The Heart of the Matter, and The Power and the Glory.
Graham Greene [accept The Potting Shed before it is read]
5

87953-)
One of this man's works has a section titled after the "Berecynthian goddess" and has the subtitle "By Bellay". In addition to "Ruins of Rome", he wrote of his courting and marriage of Elizabeth Boyle in Amoretti, which includes his famous wedding song "Epithalamion." The character of Colin Clout appeared in his "Shepherd's Calendar", in addition to an epic describing the interactions of Duessa, Archimago, Britomart, and the Redcrosse Knight. For 10 points, name this author of a work allegorizing Elizabeth I as Glorianna, The Faerie Queene.
Edmund Spenser
3

89020-)
A character in this play describes his sister as a "tall, trapesing, trolloping, talkative maypole". This play opens with a woman complaining about her boring regular houseguests Mr. Cripplegate and Mrs. Oddfish, wishing instead to visit London like Mrs. Grigsby and the Hoggs family. A subplot in this play involves jewels that initially prevent Constance Neville and (*) Hastings from eloping. After asking for directions at the Three Pigeons alehouse, two characters in this play are sent to a house they do not know is owned by the Hardcastles by the mischievous Tony Lumpkin. For 10 points, name this play where Kate pretends to be a serving maid to attract the interests of Marlow, a work by Oliver Goldsmith.
She Stoops to Conquer
5

89079-)
Early in this work, the protagonist quotes the work of Professor Simon Newcomb to the MedicalMan and the Provincial Mayor and argues with Filby over the existence of an "instantaneous cube".This novel's protagonist finds a locked structure topped by a giant sphinx, which turns out to beconnected to the Palace of Green Porcelain. After arriving late for his own dinner party, this novel'sprotagonist produces two unusual (*) flowers to prove the veracity of his tale. Its protagonist is saddenedto see the sun dying and the Earth growing cold after escaping from a place where Weena dies in a forestfire while being pursued by the Morlocks. For 10 points, name this H. G. Wells novel in which theTraveller goes to the distant future.
The Time Machine
5

89103-)
One poet of this last name included an epigraph from both Dante and Petrarch with each of the fourteen sonnets in the sequence Monna Innominata. A poet with this last name described a girl on whose arm "the lilies lay as if asleep" while she prays to be reunited with her lover in "The Blessed Damozel." Another poet of this last name described Laura, who falls ill after heeding the repeated "come buy, come buy" and indulging in forbidden fruit, before she is saved by her sister Lizzie in the poem "Goblin Market." For 10 points, give this last name shared by Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood member Dante Gabriel and his sister Christina.
Rossetti [or Dante Gabriel Rossetti; or Christina Rossetti]
6

89106-)
This author opens one work with the pun "Within this sober Frame expect work of no foreign Architect" as he describes the title manor of "Upon Appleton House." This man wrote "How fit he is to sway who can so well obey!" in "An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland." The speaker of another poem by this man states "the grave's a fine and private place but none I think do there embrace" and warns of "time's winged chariot hurrying near." That speaker created by this man says his "vegetable love should grow vaster than empires" "had we but world enough and time." For 10 points, name this British poet of "To His Coy Mistress."
Andrew Marvell
6

89122-)
The narrator of this novel dreams of a faceless man standing by the title character's bed and commanding him to rise. The title characters of this novel seek help from Dr. Lanyon, who then dies of shock after witnessing the appearance of a man who beat Danvers Carew ("carry") to death. In this novel, the lawyer Gabriel Utterson finds a note from one of the title characters explaining his development of a potion that gradually came to control him. For 10 points, name this novel by Robert Louis Stevenson about a scientist who splits his personality.
The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
6

89146-)
In this novel, a little girl with a penchant for shooting cats with her air rifle fights with the protagonist's sister. While treating a patient in this novel, the protagonist's doctor grandfather falls in love with that patient through a hole in a sheet. The betrayal of Joseph D'Costa leads one character in this novel to choose to switch the sons of Amina and Vanita at birth. In this novel, one character who has fathered hundreds of children leads an attack on a ghetto that kills Parvati-the-witch. That character, Shiva, had found himself at odds with this novel's narrator during a telepathic conference of the title characters. For 10 points, name this novel about Saleem Sinai by Salman Rushdie.
Midnight's Children
6

89153-)
In this play, one character hides underneath a cloak and is mistaken for a monster by two men who then get him drunk. Another character in this play sings a song that begins "Full fathom five thy father lies." In this play, one character makes a banquet appear and disappear to taunt a man who had deposed him. That character survived Antonio's treachery thanks to the provisions and books provided by Gonzalo. The setting of this play was once ruled by the witch Sycorax. In this play, the spirit Ariel and the deformed Caliban serve Miranda's father. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Prospero creates the title storm to shipwreck his enemy on his island.
The Tempest
6

89162-)
The narrator of this work asks "holy Light, offspring of heaven's first-born" to let him "see and tell of things invisible to mortal sight." Two characters in this work take their solitary way "hand in hand with wandering steps and slow." Another character in this work resolves "to wage by force or guile eternal war irreconcilable to our grand Foe" despite the arguments of Belial and Mammon. In this work, Raphael warns two characters of the plans of a fallen angel who declares that it is better "to reign in hell than serve in heaven." For 10 points, name this epic poem by John Milton in which Adam and Eve are expelled from Eden.
"Paradise Lost"
6

89192-)
In one poem by this author, the speaker plans to use a "scrofulous French novel on grey paper with blunt type" to damn the soul of a man he despises. This author of "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" wrote of a woman who "put my arm about her waist, and made her smooth white shoulder bare" in another poem. Besides that poem in which the speaker strangles a woman with her hair, this man wrote a work in which the speaker gave the gift of a "nine-hundred-years-old name." In that work by this man, the title character had a heart "too soon made glad." For 10 points, name this poet of the dramatic monologues "Porphyria's Lover" and "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning
6

89209-)
In a novel by this man, the title character escapes from the vengeful James by explaining that he is too young to be the man his sister called "Prince Charming." In one play by this man, the title object implies one character's infidelity until her disguised mother Mrs. Erlynne claims it. In another work by this author of Lady Windermere's Fan, confusion arises from both Cecily and Gwendolen's wish to marry a man of a certain name until the lies of Algernon and Jack are revealed. For 10 points, name this author of The Importance of Being Earnest and The Picture of Dorian Gray.
Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde
6

89226-)
This poem's speaker encounters a symbol of the "utmost that we know / both of ourselves and of the universe" when he sees the written story of a blind beggar's life tied around the beggar's neck. Street plays inspire an extended digression about the Maid of Buttermere in this poem, which contains two sections on "Imagination and Taste." It claims that peace and repose must come from the "pure source" or they "will by man be sought in vain" in a section that describes a shepherd-guided moonlit journey from Bethgelert's huts to the heights of Snowdon. Its speaker declares "Fair seed-time had my soul" in its opening section, "Childhood." It was never titled in its poet's lifetime, and is subtitled "the growth of a poet's mind." For 10 points, name this long autobiographical poem by William Wordsworth.
The Prelude
8

89250-)
This author declared that his nation was "rotting now, and quite soon you'll disappear" in his "Letter To My Fellow Countrymen". He savaged his mother Nellie in his autobiography, A Better Class of Person, and he wrote a play which ends with two characters reconciling by playing a game of "bears and squirrels". In another of his plays, Jean breaks her engagement with Graham and Mick dies as a P.O.W., while the decline of English (*) music halls ruins the career of Archie Rice. In his most famous play, Colonel Redfern comes to retrieve his daughter due to the machinations of Helena, who wants the pregnant Alison out of the way to have Jimmy Porter to herself. For 10 points, name this author of Look Back in Anger, a prominent Angry Young Man.
John James Osborne
5

89285-)
Some minor characters in this novel include a "telescopic philanthropist" and a woman who claims to do "good works" for the unfortunate, but is unaware that her efforts are insensitive and unhelpful.  Mrs. Jellyby and Mrs. Pardiggle appear in this novel, in which a junk dealer spontaneously combusts during a lawyer's efforts to discover the identity of another character, who dies of an opium overdose and is known as Nemo. Tulkinghorn is murdered in this novel after discovering that the protagonist is the daughter of Captain Hawdon and Lady Dedlock.  Allan Woodcourt marries Esther Summerson in this novel, which chronicles a case in the Court of Chancery, Jarndyce vs. Jarndyce. For 10 points, identify this novel by Charles Dickens named for John Jarndyce's home.
Bleak House
7

89301-)
In this play, two men whistle "The Mountains of Morne" while having a conversation, and a character in this play tears a newspaper into strips. The protagonist of this play claims to be a piano player who gave a concert once, and the first act ends with him beating a toy drum. One character in this play alternately calls himself Benny, Simey, and Nat.  In one scene of this play, a man breaks the protagonist's glasses, and in the dark he tries to rape Lulu, following a game of blind man's bluff. Petey and Meg run the supposed boarding house where this play takes place, and it ends with Goldberg and McCann taking the protagonist for "special treatment."  For 10 points, name this play about Stanley Webber, written by Harold Pinter and titled for a celebration.
The Birthday Party
7

89320-)
The protagonist of this novel is told "You mustn't talk to me in the second person singular" after accidentally telling Anna that he loves her. That protagonist of this novel soon after becomes lovers with a woman twice his age, but continues to call her Miss Wilkinson. In this novel, Fanny commits suicide during the protagonist's time studying art in Paris. Later, a streetwalker and her baby daughter move into the protagonist's house, but she leaves him after cutting up his linens.  At the end of this novel the protagonist moves to a small fishing village after marrying Thorpe's daughter, Sally Athelney. The medical student protagonist has a relationship with waitress Mildred Rogers. For 10 points, name this novel about the club-footed Philip Carey, written by W. Somerset Maugham.
Of Human Bondage
7

89338-)
In one poem, this author laments that "we only toil, who are the first of things." That poem by this author describes a land "where all things always seem'd the same," and the speaker is "propt on beds of amaranth and moly." At the end of that poem, the speaker advises "rest ye, brother mariners, we will not wander more," preferring to stay in the company of the title "mild-eyed melancholy" people, who came bearing branches "of that enchanted stem."  In another poem by this author the speaker announces "I am become a name" and remembers "much have I seen and known." In that poem the speaker leaves to his son "the scepter and the isle" and resolves to "sail beyond the sunset" and "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." For 10 points, name this poet who was inspired by The Odyssey to write "The Lotos-Eaters" and "Ulysses."
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
7

89363-)
This author claimed that a poor joke found in a letter from Jane Austen  to her sister Cassandra evoked "the whinnying of harpies."  In one of this author's short stories, Kuno journeys to see his mother Vashti in a futuristic society where human contact is very rare.  This author of "The Machine Stops" wrote a novel in which Charles beats a man with the flat of a sword, causing a heart attack and the death of that man, Leonard Bast.  In another of his novels, Cyril Fielding marries the daughter of Mrs. Moore and another character is accused of sexual assault after a trip to the Marabar Caves.  For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Helen and Margaret Schlegel in Howards End and created Dr. Aziz and Adela Quested in A Passage to India.
Edward Morgan Forster
7

89393-)
This character leads a dancing chorus at his master's wedding feast in the Walpurgis Night's Dream of Goethe's Faust. This character brags that he will "put a girdle 'round the earth in forty minutes" when he goes to gather a certain flower. This character impersonates two duelists to each other in order to separate them, and he confuses two sleeping men because of their similar garments. He ends the play he appears in by asking amends "if we shadows have offended." This character gives a donkey's head to Nick Bottom, and he tells his master "Lord, what fools these mortals be!" after botching the application of a love charm. Also known as Robin Goodfellow, for 10 points, name this mischievous sprite who serves Oberon in A Midsummer Night's Dream.
Puck [accept "Robin" or "Robin Goodfellow" before it is read]
7

89411-)
A poem by this author called "Ancient Music" begins: "Winter is icumen in, Lhude sing Goddamm."  This poet wrote that "celebrities from the Trans-Caucasus will belaud Roman celebrities" in a long work whose title figure explains why he writes love poems instead of epics.  The sections "Yeux Glauques," "Brennbaum," and "Mr.  Nixon" appear in this man's poem about a figure who "strove to resuscitate the dead art of poetry."  With Wyndham Lewis, this poet founded the art movement Vorticism.  This author of "Homage to Sextus Propertius" and "Hugh Selwyn Mauberley" was called il miglior fabbro in the dedication of T.S. Eliot's "The Waste-Land."  The lines "The apparition of these faces in the crowd; Petals on a wet black bough" comprise his poem "In a Station of the Metro." For 10 points, name this author of the Cantos.
Ezra Pound
7

89414-)
In this novel, a soldier called Roach kills a man with a "rabbit-blow." The narrator of this novel is the author of How To Win At Dice, but his presentation of his recent writings ends in disaster when a fat man breaks a chair. The narrator of this novel writes a hidden message in milk to a man who he had thought was dead, and his betrothed, Camilla, is killed with a poisoned needle on their wedding day. Pollio advises the title character to play the fool in order to stay alive, and in this novel Postumus is among the victims of the scheming Livia. It is prophesied to the narrator that this work will be discovered in nineteen centuries, and this novel ends with the stammering narrator becoming emperor after the assassination of Caligula. For 10 points, name this novel by Robert Graves.
I, Claudius
7

89421-)
One character in this play is punished by having to wear donkey ears while being rowed around in a boat. In this play, a hermaphrodite claims to possess the soul of Pythagoras, and another character is tricked into hiding under a tortoise-shell by the disguised Peregrine. The protagonist hawks a miracle cure while disguised as a mountebank, and a subplot concerns the English knight Sir Politick Would-Be. Bonario rescues the virtuous Celia from rape at the hands of the title character, who connives to receive lavish gifts from Voltore, Corvino, and Corbaccio. The servant Mosca assists him in that plot, which requires the title character to pretend that he is dying. For 10 points, name this Ben Jonson play about a fox-like nobleman.
Volpone
7

89457-)
The narrator of this poem references what "is true of the normal heart" before stating "music must always play" for the "faces along the bar." The speaker claims "all I have is a voice to undo the folded lie," and this poem notes that "blind skyscrapers" "proclaim the strength of Collective Man." The narrator sees "ironic points of light" that "flash out," and determines that he is "composed like them of Eros and Dust" and therefore can "show an affirming flame." In this poem the speaker describes how the "clever hopes expire of a low dishonest decade." This poem begins "I sit in one of the dives on Fifty-second Street," and it argues "we must love one another or die." For 10 points, name this poem about the "international wrong" committed by "a psychopathic god" on the title date, by W. H. Auden.
"September 1, 1939"
7

89466-)
One character is this play ensures that Mr. Hopper has appeared five times on the dance card of her daughter Agatha, whose only lines throughout the play are the repeated "yes, mamma." One character in this play comments "we are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars." The protagonist of this play breaks open her husband's bank book and discovers the record of several checks written to a particular woman. The title character's mother sacrifices her own reputation to save her daughter's, despite not having revealed their relationship. Mrs. Erlynne reveals herself in Lord Darlington's apartment, claiming that she dropped the title item, saving the title character from accusations of having an affair.  For 10 points, name this play about a noblewoman by Oscar Wilde.
Lady Windermere's Fan
7

89498-)
One character in this novel reads passages from The Ruins of Empires to teach proper French to a Turkish girl, and the protagonist of this novel has a dream in which he kisses his beloved, but she then turns into the corpse of his mother.  Another character in this novel threatens that "I will be with you on your wedding night" and spends a year observing the family of the blind De Lacey.  In this novel a missing locket is found in the possession of a maid, leading Justine Moritz to be falsely accused of murder, and on a trip to Scotland, Henry Clerval is also killed.  This novel is framed by letters from Robert Walton, who finds the title character in the arctic, pursuing his creation.  For 10 points, name this novel about a "Modern Prometheus," written by Mary Shelley.
Frankenstein
7

89507-)
One character is this novel is forced by his father to write in the bible that he wishes "evil may befall" another character, and that character in this novel enters a business partnership with his childhood enemy Bob Jakin. The protagonist of this novel refuses to elope with her cousin's fiancÃ©, but is forced to spend the night with him when their boat is carried out to sea. Stephen Guest and Lucy Deane appear in this novel, in which the protagonist's father loses his property due to a bankrupting lawsuit fought against the protagonist's crippled lover. The title location, located near St. Ogg's, is bought by Philip Wakem, and the novel ends when a flood drowns the protagonist and her brother Tom.  For 10 points, name this novel about Maggie Tulliver, written by George Eliot.
The Mill on the Floss
7

89526-)
In this story, one character bitterly claims that men are "all palaver and what they can get out of you" after being asked if she will marry soon, and the protagonist of this story tells a story about a horse named Johnny that walks in circles around a statue. The protagonist of this story writes book reviews for The Daily Express, for which he is accused of being a West Briton by Miss Ivors.  The protagonist worries about using Robert Browning quotes in his dinner speech. The tenor Bartelle D'Arcy sings in this story, at the end of a party attended by Mr. Browne and the drunk Freddy Mallins.  Mary Jane plays the piano at that party, which is hosted by the protagonist's aunts, Julia and Kate Morkan.  This story ends with the protagonist's wife Gretta revealing her love for the deceased Michael Furey.  For 10 points, name this story about Gabriel Conroy, which was written by James Joyce and is the last in Dubliners.
"The Dead"
7

89565-)
This character considers watching twenty crabs crawl to the sea and stoning the twenty-first, "loving not, hating not, just choosing so." He contemplates a mysterious Gnostic concept called "the Quiet," which "made all things," and concludes seven stanzas with the ominous "so He," after making analogies for another figure who "dwelleth i' the cold of the moon." This character's musings are used to satirize Calvinism and "Natural Theology" in a poem by Robert Browning that has him contemplating Setebos. In another work, this character falls in with the louts Stephano and Trinculo, and this son of the witch Sycorax is enslaved due to his attempted rape of Miranda. For 10 points, name this monstrous slave of Prospero from The Tempest.
 Caliban
7

89585-)
This poet addresses a "fair creature of an hour" in a poem that concludes "I sit alone and think 'til love and fame and nothingness do sink."  In a response to another poet's "Alastor," this man wrote of an Indian maid singing about the entourage of Bacchus in part of a longer poem. This poet of "When I have fears that I may cease to be" composed a love sonnet beginning "Bright star! would I were steadfast as thou art."  This author wrote to "think not of them, thou hast thy music too" while describing a "season of mists and mellow fruitfulness" in one poem, and in another the speaker comments "the sedge is withered from the lake" and recounts dreaming of "pale kings" after being enthralled by the title figure.  For 10 points, name this author of "To Autumn" and "La Belle Dame Sans Merci" who wrote that "beauty is truth, truth beauty" in "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
John Keats
7

89590-)
In this work, the appearance of a cat without a tail leads the narrator to imagine people humming the poems of Tennyson and Christina Rosetti at luncheon parties. The sentence "Chloe liked Olivia" is credited as a great innovation in this work, which imagines a certain figure committing suicide after being impregnated by a theatre manager. The final chapter of this work draws on Coleridge's theory of the androgynous mind, and it also considers Judith, the hypothetical sister of William Shakespeare. This work examines Lady Winchilsea before crediting Aphra Behn as a pioneer, and it emphasizes the importance of five hundred pounds a year in addition to the title location. For 10 points, name this essay about women and fiction written by Virginia Woolf.
"A Room of One's Own"
7

89611-)
A response to this poem with a similar title claims some people are constrained by "cannon, church and courthouse," and warns "justice, though delayed, will hold you as her debtor." That response to this poem was written by Hubert Harrison. This poem references ports that the addressee "shall not enter" before commanding "mark them with your dead," and it indicts the "lightly proffered laurel" as too characteristic of "childish days." Instead, the addressee will face "the judgment of your peers." This poem earlier urges its audience to "bind your sons to exile" and to "send forth the best ye breed," so that they can "serve" the "new-caught, sullen peoples, half devil and half child." For 10 points, name this celebration of imperialism, written by Rudyard Kipling.
"The White Man's Burden: The United States and The Philippine Islands"
7

89650-)
In one novel by this man, the protagonist saves Weena from drowning and later uses two flowers she had given him as proof of his journey for Hillyer. This man also wrote a novel in which Captain Davies leaves the protagonist with Montgomery and a doctor who was shamed out of England. In that novel by this man, Prendick's companion the Saint-Bernard-Man is killed by the Hyena-Swine. In another work by this author of The Island of Dr. Moreau, Dr. Kemp leads Griffin to become increasingly ruthless when he reveals the results of his experiments with refraction to the police. For 10 points, name this author of The Time Machine and The Invisible Man.
Herbert George Wells
6

89667-)
The protagonist of this play rebukes the adage that "the savage bull doth bear the yoke," asserting that he will never get married. Another character in this play commands his sexton to make a note that Conrad has made him look like an ass. Two brides in this play arrive at their wedding wearing masks. In this play set in Messina, Margaret and Borachio make love as part of Don John's scheme to make Claudio think that his lover Hero is being unfaithful. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Dogberry exposes Don John's scheme and Beatrice marries Benedick.
Much Ado About Nothing
6

89675-)
In one of this author's novels, the title character discovers his own heritage while trying to help Mirah Lapidoth find her family. This author of Daniel Deronda created a character in another novel who sees Philip Wakem against the wishes of her brother, his sworn enemy. Those siblings created by this author are reunited before they drown together during a flood of the title river. In addition to that novel about Tom and Maggie Tulliver, this author wrote a work in which the death of Edward Casaubon allows his cousin Will Ladislaw to marry Dorothea Brooke. For 10 points, name this author of The Mill on the Floss and Middlemarch.
George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans]
6

89695-)
In this work, one character enters the Garter Inn disguised as Mr. Brook after receiving a warning from Pistol and Nim. Two characters in this play accidentally carry off boys when another character wears a costume different than she had told them in order to marry her true love, Fenton, instead of Dr. Caius or Slender. A foolish knight in this play who thinks he can seduce the title characters finds himself thrown into a river with the laundry. That character is later ambushed by disguised children in a wood after the title characters' husbands join in. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean comedy in which the title characters Mistress Ford and Mistress Page trick Falstaff.
The Merry Wives of Windsor
6

89708-)
The protagonist of this novel quarrels with his classmates when he insists that Byron and not Tennyson is the best English poet. Father Arnall defends this work's narrator after he breaks his glasses at Clongowes and is unable to do his Latin work. In this novel, Dante, the protagonist's aunt, openly supports Charles Parnell. The protagonist of this novel begins seeing prostitutes but returns to devout Catholicism when fiery sermons frighten him. However, the protagonist of this novel decides not to become a priest but to devote himself to beauty after he sees a girl wading in the sea. For 10 points, name this novel about the early life of Stephen Dedalus, a work by James Joyce.
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
6

89753-)
In one work by this author, Solomon Flamborough fails to prevent Moses from buying a gross ofgreen spectacles from Ephraim Jenkinson. David Garrick wrote a prologue in which the actor Mr.Woodward laments the death of comedy for another work by this man. The plot of that work is set inmotion in the Three Pigeons Inn, where the protagonist and Hastings encounter Tony (*) Lumpkin.This author penned a novel in which Sophia is abducted by Timothy Baxter but rescued by Mr. Burchell,who eventually reveals himself to be Squire Thornhill's virtuous uncle and saves the family of CharlesPrimrose. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Charles Marlow and Kate Hardcastle in SheStoops to Conquer and penned The Vicar of Wakefield.
Oliver Goldsmith
5

89779-)
This author wrote his sonnet "Since she whom I lov'd hath paid her last debt" while mourningthe death of his wife Anne. One of his poems imagines people worshiping the speaker and his loverafter someone digs up his grave and discovers "a bracelet of bright hair about the bone". Another ofhis poems ends "Thy firmness makes my circle just / And makes me end where I begun," andcompares the souls of the speaker and his lover to "stiff twin (*) compasses". His collection Songs andSonnets includes his poems "The Relic" and "The Canonization". Another of his collections contains"Batter My Heart, Three Person'd God" and "Death, Be Not Proud". For 10 points, name this metaphysicalpoet of "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" and the Holy Sonnets
John Donne
5

89789-)
In one story, a major who loves to fence and was injured in this conflict uses a machine to help restore his damaged hand. That story about this conflict is "In Another Country." John McCrae described how "the poppies blow between the crosses, row on row" marking the graves of those who died in this conflict. One work set in this conflict asks "what passing-bells for these who die as cattle?" and another describes troops who are "bent double, like old beggars under sacks." For 10 points, name this conflict described in "In Flanders Fields," as well as in the poems of Wilfred Owen, including "Anthem for Doomed Youth" and "Dulce et Decorum Est."
World War I [or First World War; or Great War]
6

89795-)
In this novel, a man avoids detection because his hands are tough and calloused rather than soft and delicate, as had been expected. The protagonist of this novel agrees to help a wounded American outlaw named James Calver, although he realizes that the request is a trap. This novel opens when the protagonist is invited for a drink with a dentist named Mr. Tench, who later witnesses his execution. The lieutenant tracks and finally apprehends the protagonist after he is betrayed by the mestizo. The unnamed protagonist of this novel is on the run in an area of Mexico where religion is outlawed. For 10 points, name this novel by Graham Greene about the Whiskey Priest.
The Power and the Glory
6

89823-)
In one work by this man, Teddy brings his wife into his father's household, which she comes to dominate. During a game of blind man's bluff in a play by this author of The Homecoming, a character tries to rape Lulu after Meg and Petey Boles organize the title event for Stanley Webber, who is taken away by Goldberg and McCann. In another play by this man, two men argue about the score of a football game and lighting the kettle before they use a speaking tube to report a lack of food in the room where the hit man Ben points a gun at his partner Gus. For 10 points, name this British playwright of The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.
Harold Pinter
6

89838-)
In one work by this author, the academics Hannah and Bernard become obsessed with the past of the estate at which they are guests in scenes that alternate with the centuries-earlier time of the brilliant Thomasina and her tutor Septimus Hodge. This author of Arcadia also wrote a play in which a title character accuses a troupe of players of not understanding death. This author follows two title characters from their bet that results in over seventy coins landing heads until Horatio reflects on their demise after they are attacked by pirates on a ship in which they are escorting Hamlet. For 10 points, name this author of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]
6

89850-)
In one novel by this author, the mysterious Madame takes artwork from the children of a boarding school. The carer Kathy narrates that novel by this author in which her friends Tommy and Ruth both become donors. This man who described children cloned for their organs in Never Let Me Go also wrote a novel in which the protagonist struggles to learn to banter with the American Mr. Faraday. That novel by this author also features a conference hosted by a Nazi sympathizer at his home of Darlington Hall, where the housekeeper Miss Kenton is secretly adored by the butler Stevens. For 10 points, name this Japanese-British author of The Remains of the Day.
Kazuo Ishiguro
6

89884-)
In this novel, one character gladly accepts the idea of exile because he is bored with his job of writing hypnopaedic phrases. Henry Foster has been dating one character in this novel who falls for a man raised on the works of Shakespeare. In this novel, John grows angry when a group of boys wonder why his dying mother Linda is so ugly. After a trip to the Reservation with Lenina, Bernard Marx reveals that John is the son of the Director. This novel, in which people are conditioned into castes like alpha and delta, includes heavy use of the drug soma. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel in which John the Savage hangs himself, which was written by Aldous Huxley.
Brave New World
6

89897-)
The last of these passages asks "What is a man, if his chief good and market of his time be but tosleep and feed?" and begins "How all occasions do inform against me." The second one considersthat "the devil hath power to assume a pleasing shape" and laments "what a rogue and peasant slaveam I!" The first of these passages compares the world to an "unweeded garden," and begins "O thatthis too too (*) solid flesh would melt, thaw, and resolve itself into a dew!" The third one declares that"conscience does make cowards of us all" and contemplates suffering "the slings and arrows of outrageousfortune". For 10 points, name these speeches given by the protagonist of a Shakespearean tragedy, whichinclude one that begins "to be or not to be."
the soliloquies of Hamlet [prompt on partial answer; prompt on "speeches of Hamlet" or "monologues of Hamlet" or equivalents; the word "soliloquoy" is required to get points]
5

89914-)
This character is briefly employed as a mute mourner by the undertaker Mr. Sowerberry. After this character's mother is called a "a regular right-down bad 'un", he flies into a rage and beats up Noah Claypole. Edward Leeford, who had taken the pseudonym "Monks", is revealed to be this character's half-brother. He is abandoned by Toby Crackit and a colleague after being shot by the butler Giles, but is nursed back to health by (*) Rose Maylie. This character is taken in for a time by Mr.Brownlow, but is kidnapped by Nancy and her boyfriend Bill Sikes. While traveling to London, he is recruited to work for Fagin by the Artful Dodger. For 10 points, name this orphan who asks "Please, sir, I want some more" in a scene from his namesake Charles Dickens novel.
Oliver Twist [accept either underlined portion]
5

89920-)
This character creates a painting depicting an icy landscape dominated by a white head with asingle eye and a pale halo. She is traumatized as a child by a visit from her uncle's ghost while she islocked in the Red Room. She identifies a man who disguises himself as a gypsy to tell BlancheIngram's fortune while she is tutoring the illegitimate child of the opera singer Adele (*) Varens. Afterher friend Helen Burns dies of typhoid fever, she exposes the negligence of Mr. Brocklehurst, headmasterof Lowood School. She rejects her cousin John's marriage proposal before returning to the ruins ofThornfield Grange, which was burned by the owner's crazy first wife Bertha Mason. For 10 points, namethis character who marries Mr. Rochester in a Charlotte Bronte novel.
Jane Eyre [prompt on "Eyre"]
5

89957-)
This poem asks, "Shall that alone which knows be as a sword consumed before the sheath by sightless lightning?" This poem's speaker recognizes the "Lost Angel of a ruined Paradise." Four stanzas in this poem are spoken by Urania, who questions a Stranger with a brow "which was like Cain's or Christ's." The speaker of this poem instructs, "Go thou to Rome, at once the Paradise, the grave, the city, and the wilderness," and earlier declares, "Peace, peace! He is not dead, he doth not sleep, he hath awakened from the dream of life." This poem concludes with the speaker watching the soul of the title character burning like a star "through the inmost veil of Heaven." For 10 points, name this pastoral elegy written for John Keats by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
"Adonais: An Elegy on the Death of John Keats"
7

89960-)
The speaker of this poem notes that he has visited Ludlow and "left my necktie God knows where," and questions, "Why was Burton built on Trent?" The last stanza of this poem discusses a man who, though others put "arsenic in his meat" and "strychnine in his cup," outlived all his attempted poisoners. The third stanza of this poem notes that "Luck's a chance, but trouble's sure," and that one should "train for ill and not for good." The speaker of this poem exhorts the addressee to "pipe a tune to dance to," claiming, "Malt does more than Milton can to justify God's ways to man." The title figure of this poem is told, "you eat your victuals fast enough." For 10 points, name this poem by A. E. Housman.
"Terence, This is Stupid Stuff"
7

89968-)
One abrasive character in this novel hangs herself, jealous of the protagonist's closeness with his fellow art student Lawson. In this novel, Hayward leaves to fight in the Boer War, leading the protagonist to lose his money and begin working in a department store. In this novel, the death of the protagonist's Uncle William allows him to return to medical school. The protagonist of this novel tries many times to help the prostitute Mildred before giving up and marrying Sally Athelny. For 10 points, name this novel about the club-footed orphan Philip Carey, a work of W. Somerset Maugham.
Of Human Bondage
7

89983-)
The speaker of this poem compares the title creature to a "high-born maiden in a palace tower" and a "glow-worm golden in a dell of dew." This work's stanzas consist of four iambic trimeter lines followed by a long iambic hexameter line. The speaker of this poem wishes for "half the gladness" of the title creature so that "harmonious madness" could flow from his lips. This poem describes how the title figure pours "profuse strains of unpremeditated art," and it opens, "Hail to thee, blithe spirit!" For 10 points, name this poem about a bird by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
"To a Skylark"
7

90002-)
This poet buried his work in his wife's grave after her suicide, but later dug them back up. He claimed that his most famous poem was a reversal of Poe's "The Raven." This man wrote the article "The Stealthy School of Criticism" in response to Robert Buchanan's claim that he belonged to "the fleshly school" of poetry. In one of his poems, he described a character with hair "yellow like ripe corn" who carries "three lilies in her hand." The title character of that poem sees souls go by like "thin flames" while leaning "out from the gold bar of heaven." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Blessed Damozel," a member of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.
Dante Gabriel Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti]
7

90008-)
One of this author's poems describes the "viper thoughts, that coil around my mind" and lamentshow his "genial spirits fail". The speaker of another of his poems contemplates a "Babe, that sleepestcradled by my side" while watching the title substance perform "its secret ministry". This poetquoted "The Ballad of Sir Patrick Spens" in "Dejection: An Ode" and penned (*) "Frost at Midnight".In another poem, he described the "flashing eyes" and "floating hair" of a figure who has "drunk the milk ofParadise". In one of his poems, a figure complains of "Water, water, everywhere, nor any drop to drink"after shooting an albatross. For 10 points, name this Romantic poet who wrote of "a stately pleasure-dome"in Xanadu in "Kubla Khan" and penned "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner".
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
5

90010-)
In one scene in this play, the corpse of a strangled friar is propped up such that another man ischarged with murder after hitting the friar with a staff. One of its characters gives away poisonednosegays after sneaking into Pilla-Borza's house disguised as a French lutenist in order to kill theprostitute Bellamira. A forged letter causes a doubly-fatal duel between Lodowick and Mathias inthis play, which begins with Governor (*) Ferneze seizing the main character's wealth to pay the city'stribute to the Turkish prince Calymath. The title character schemes with Ithamore to poison his owndaughter Abigail before falling into his own trap and dying in a boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name thisChristopher Marlowe play whose title character is the cruel Barabas.
The Jew of Malta
5

90032-)
In one work by this man featuring a number of drinking songs, the government closes all the pubs for its citizens' supposed good. George Bernard Shaw created a portmanteau to parody this man's friendship with Hilaire Belloc. This author of The Flying Inn wrote a novel in which the commoner Auberon Quin becomes king of England and makes the different boroughs of London go to war with one another. In "The Blue Cross," he introduced the criminal Flambeau, who is foiled by a Catholic priest/detective. Another of his works ends after Gabriel Syme learns that the other weekdays are also undercover detectives. For 10 points, name this author of The Napoleon of Notting Hill, the Father Brown stories, and The Man Who Was Thursday.
Gilbert Keith Chesterton
7

90050-)
This poem asks, "What is it that will last? All things are taken from us, and become portions and parcels of the dreadful past." Characters in this poem worry that they "should come like ghosts to trouble joy" and declare, "Let what is broken so remain." The first speaker describes "a land in which it seemed always afternoon" where he encounters the "mild-eyed melancholy" title characters, who sing a "choric song" concluding, "O, rest ye, brother mariners, we will not wander more." For 10 points, name this poem by Lord Tennyson about the consumers of a certain psychoactive fruit from the Odyssey.
"The Lotos-Eaters"
7

90071-)
One character in this play explains away a bizarre story by claiming that "the lunatic, the lover, and the poet / are of imagination all compact." Minor roles in this play sing "weaving spiders, come not here" and "thorny hedgehogs, be not seen" in a lullaby for their sleeping mistress. At the end of this play, one character asks the audience to think they "have but slumbered here" "if we shadows have offended." In this play, Peter Quince and his "mechanicals" put on the "tedious brief" play of Pyramus and Thisbe for an audience including Lysander and Demetrius. For 10 points, name this play featuring the fairies Oberon, Titania, and Puck, by William Shakespeare.
A Midsummer Night's Dream
6

90081-)
This writer penned the lines "I have spread my dreams under your feet; / tread softly because you tread on my dreams" in one poem. In another of this writer's poems, the speaker states that "I know that I shall meet my fate / somewhere among the clouds above." In another work, this poet wrote that "an aged man is but a paltry thing" and began by stating "that is no country for old men." Chinua Achebe titled a novel after a line from one of this writer's poems, which contains a rough beast "slouching towards Bethlehem" to be born. For 10 points, name this Irish poet who wrote "Sailing to Byzantium" and "The Second Coming."
William Butler Yeats
6

90102-)
One stanza in this poem describes "many a gem of purest ray serene" that the "dark, unfathomed caves of ocean bear."  Near the beginning of this poem, a ploughman "plods his weary way, / and leaves the world to darkness and to me." This poem hypothetically describes "some mute inglorious Milton" and "some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood." Thomas Hardy took his title Far From the Madding Crowd from this poem, which states that "the paths of glory lead but to the grave" and begins with a curfew tolling "the knell of parting day." For 10 points, identify this elegy on death by Thomas Gray.
"Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"
6

90142-)
In one of this author's stories, the protagonist is enraged when his "Anabaptist" Houdan hen is sold and chants a hymn with the lyric, "His enemies called for peace, but he brought them death." That story ends with the implied death of Mrs. de Ropp at the hands of the title creature. This author concluded one story with the line, "Romance at short notice was her specialty;" in another of his stories, the child Conradin worships a polecat ferret. In his most famous story, Vera Sappleton claims that three of her relatives were swallowed into a bog on a hunting trip to scare off Framton Nuttel. For 10 points, name this author of comic short stories like "Sredni Vashtar" and "The Open Window."
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro]
7

90157-)
One work by this man begins with the speaker bidding farewell to "dungeons dark and strong." That work's chorus says that the title character "played a spring and danced it round, below the gallows-tree." The speaker of another poem by this man says that he will come again, "tho' 'twere ten thousand mile," and says his love is "like a red, red rose." In another work by this author of "McPherson's Farewell," the title character rides home on his grey mare Meg, who loses her tail after that character shouts "Weel done, Cutty Sark!" For 10 points, "Tam o' Shanter" is a work of which Scottish poet who also wrote "Auld Lang Syne"?
Robert Burns
7

90173-)
After hearing an actor's speech, this character asks, "What's Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba?" in a speech calling himself a "rogue and peasant slave." This character claims that he could be confined to a nutshell and count himself "a king of infinite space," if not for his bad dreams. The work this character appears in is called "most certainly an artistic failure" in a T. S. Eliot essay about this character's problems.  This protagonist calls another character a "fishmonger" and later stabs him through an arras. This character kills Polonius and loses his love interest, Ophelia. For 10 points, name this prince of Denmark from a Shakespeare tragedy.
Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
6

90211-)
This author created a character who works at a euthanasia center where he falls in love with Clara, a bearded woman. Lord Copper accidentally sends the nature reporter William Boot to the warring country of Ishmaelia in another of this man's novels. Miles Plastic appears in this man's novel Love Among the Ruins, while in another of his novels, Samgrass of All Souls helps maintain the Oxford career of the owner of the teddy bear Aloysius. In that novel by this author of (*) Scoop, Julia decides not to leave her husband Rex Mottram for the protagonist, who meets the Marchmains when Sebastian Flyte brings him to the title estate. For 10 points, name this English author who created Charles Ryder in Brideshead Revisited.
Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]
5

90227-)
In a rare non-clown role, Robert Armin originated this character. Coleridge likened one of this character's speeches to "the motive-hunting of motiveless Malignity"; this character begins that speech by saying "Thus do I ever make my fool my purse". In one scene, he sings the drinking song "King Stephen was a worthy peer", while his last line is "From this time forth I never will speak word." This character warns (*) Brabantio of the "beast with two backs" and later advises another character to beware jealousy, "the green-eyed monster". He is arrested after stabbing his wife Emilia, and he conspires with Roderigo in an attempt to kill Michael Cassio. For 10 points, identify this scheming villain of Shakespeare's Othello.
Iago
5

90247-)
Two characters in this play have an argument about why boy babies cry more than girl babies.One of its characters claims he that sat on the grass and read Yeats after taking the speedboat toTorcello, although his wife had claimed there was a speedboat strike. The female lead of this play wasmodeled on the playwright's lover Joan Bakewell, who had a similar experience receiving a letterwhile on vacation in Venice. One of its running discussions concerns how two of its characters neverplay squash anymore. All of its characters like to bash the hackneyed but popular writing of (*)Roger Casey, whose work is published by Robert. This play's nine scenes take place over a period of nineyears from 1977 to 1968, as Emma and Jerry's affair deteriorates in reverse chronological order. For 10points, name this play about marital infidelity by Harold Pinter.
Betrayal
8

90254-)
In one short story by this author, Elizabeth puts a sprig of flower in her apron, which her daughter excitedly smells, before learning of her husband's death in a mining accident. This author of "Odour of Chrysanthemums" created mine owner Gerald Crich and school inspector Rupert Birkin, who enter relationships with the Brangwen sisters, in the novel Women in Love. Another novel by this author focuses on the failed relationships of Miriam Leiver and Clara Dawes with Paul Morel. He created the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors in a novel subjected to an obscenity trial in 1960. For 10 points, identify this author of Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley's Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence
6

90275-)
This character demands another to speak "if thou art privy to thy country's fate." He is dissuadedfrom suicide after claiming "I am more an antique Roman." This character describes one figure as"a countenance more in sorrow than in anger." He reads aloud from a letter which describes a chaseby "a pirate of very warlike appointment." He suggests that a group of (*) corpses "high on a stage beplaced to the view," before promising to tell "Of carnal, bloody, and unnatural acts, of accidentaljudgments, casual slaughters." This character is chidingly told that there are more things in heaven andearth than he has dreamed of in his philosophy. Along with the soldiers Bernardo and Marcellus, he sees aghost. After claiming "Now cracks a noble heart," this man converses with the newly arrived Fortinbras.For 10 points, name this addressee of the "Alas! Poor Yorick" speech, the best friend of Hamlet.
Horatio
8

90297-)
The speaker of this poem quotes Hamlet's "What is a man" speech in attacking those that "sleep and feed." It describes one person as "centered in the sphere of common duties, decent not to fail in offices of tenderness."  Another part discusses people who "ever with a frolic welcome took the thunder and the sunshine." The speaker of this poem declares "I will drink life to the lees" and claims that "life piled on life were all too little." This poem starts with the speaker saying that he is "by this still hearth, among these barren crags." That speaker tells his friends, "'Tis not too late to seek a newer world." It ends with the speaker hoping to travel onwards "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." For 10 points, name this Tennyson poem about an "idle king" who was also the subject of a Homeric epic.
"Ulysses"
7

90316-)
In one episode in this novel, Tom falls severely ill after a night of extreme drinking, and Tom's sister elopes with his friend John. One character in this novel recites Wolsey's speech in Henry VIII, and another character becomes closer to her sister, Susan, after returning to Portsmouth. In this novel, rehearsals for Elizabeth Inchbald's Lovers' Vows are interrupted when Sir Thomas comes home early, and Maria runs away from her husband, Mr. Rushworth. The protagonist rejects Henry Crawford and later marries Edmund Bertram in, for 10 points, what novel about Fanny Price, by Jane Austen?
Mansfield Park
6

90336-)
One of this writer's poems begins, "Move him into the sun / Gently its touch awoke him once." Another poem by this poet notes "The shrill, demented choirs of wailing shells" and describes how "the holy glimmers of goodbyes" will shine in lovers' eyes. This poet of "Futility" wrote a poem which opens with the question "What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?" In another of his poems, the narrator witnesses a fellow soldier "guttering, choking, drowning" after failing to put his gas mask on. For 10 points, identify this World War I soldier and English poet, who wrote such poems as "Anthem for Doomed Youth" and "Dulce et Decorum Est."
Wilfred Owen
6

90367-)
One section of this poem describes "gardens bright with sinuous rills" where blossomed "many an incense-bearing tree." Another stanza of this poem describes a "deep romantic chasm" which seethes "as if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing." The speaker of this poem attempts to recall "a damsel with a dulcimer," and this poem begins with a description of "caverns measureless to man" where "Alph, the sacred river, ran." The writing of this poem is said to have been interrupted by a person from Porlock. For 10 points, name this poem titled for a Mongol leader by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
"Kubla Khan"
6

90391-)
This poet asked, "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?" in an poem attacking Lord Hervey as "Sporus." This writer penned the phrases "A little learning is a dangerous thing: / Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring" and "to err is human, to forgive divine" in one of his works. This author of the "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot" wrote an epic poem in which guardian sylphs such as Brillante and Ariel appear; that work by this author centers upon Lord Petre's theft of a snippet of Belinda's hair. For 10 points, identify this English poet, known for using elegiac couplets in poems like Essay on Man and The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope
6

90397-)
In one scene of this novel, the protagonist falls asleep along with Abraham while delivering beehives, causing a crash that kills the family horse Prince. Minor characters in this novel include Reverend Cuthbert, who marries Mercy Chant, and Parson Tringham, who tells the protagonist's father of his illustrious pedigree. Its protagonist works with Retty Priddle and Izz at Talbothay's Dairy and hopes that her lover will marry her sister Liza-Lu after her death. The protagonist bears and buries a child named Sorrow, her son by Alec, who she later kills to reunite with her lover, Angel Clare. For 10 points, identify this novel by Thomas Hardy.
Tess of the D'Urbervilles
6

90407-)
Near the beginning of a play by this author, a character complains that Mr. Cripplegate and Mrs. Oddfish are her only visitors, and later several characters are directed to the "Three Pigeons Inn" by Tony Lumpkin, who doesn't want Constance Neville's jewels. In another work by this author, Arabella Wilmot's engagement to one figure is broken off, and Olivia is duped into a supposed wedding ceremony by Squire Thornhill. This author created Kate Hardcastle, who pretends to Marlow that she is a barmaid, as well as the Primrose family in another work. For 10 points, name this English author of She Stoops to Conquer and The Vicar of Wakefield.
Oliver Goldsmith
6

90409-)
This poet quoted Julian of Norwich to claim that "all manner of thing shall be well" when "the fire and the rose are one" at the conclusion of a poem he grouped with "East Coker" and "The Dry Salvages" in a collection. This author mentioned "Eyes I dare not meet in dreams" as well as "Shape without form, shade without colour" in a different poem. Another poem by this author of Four Quartets states that "I will show you fear in a handful of dust," repeats the line "HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME," and begins "April is the cruellest month." For 10 points, name this Modernist poet who wrote "The Hollow Men" and "The Waste Land."
Thomas Stearns Eliot
6

90435-)
One character from this novel describes how he was "put in" a fountain of Mercury by friends of Boy Mulcaster, whose sister the protagonist later marries. Another character from this novel is very attached to his teddy bear, Aloysius, and first appears when vomiting into the protagonist's ground-floor rooms. In this novel, the flamboyant Anthony Blanche warns the protagonist of his "bubbly" best friend, who becomes an alcoholic and lives his later days at a Tunisian monastery.  For 10 points, identify this novel about Charles Ryder's relationship with Sebastian Flyte's Catholic family, written by Evelyn Waugh.
Brideshead Revisited
6

90452-)
Near the end of this novel, a baby's picture falls from the pocket of its protagonist, causing him embarrassment. Social worker P. R. Deltoid spits on the protagonist of this novel, and a prison chaplain befriends that protagonist after noting his interest in the Bible. Characters in this novel like Pete, Georgie, and Dim frequent the Korova Milkbar. The protagonist of this novel often refers to himself as "your humble narrator," and agrees to subject himself to the Ludovico Technique. For 10 points, name this novel whose narrator Alex speaks with his droogs in nadsat, a dystopian novel by Anthony Burgess.
A Clockwork Orange
6

90478-)
When one character in this work swears that the soldier Le Fever will never die, an angel sheds atear to blot out the oath. Its narrator lists the 900 streets of Paris and leaves two chapters blank forthe reader to fill in details. Another character displays a map of Namur whenever a widow askswhere he was wounded and often whistles "Lillibullero". Its longest chapter is a story credited toHafen Slawkenbergius about the (*) "Long-Nosed Stranger from Strasbourg", related by a characterwhose son's nose was flattened at birth by Dr. Slop's forceps. Reenacting battles with Corporal Trim is the"hobby-horse" of Uncle Toby, who finally witnesses the title character's birth about halfway into this book.For 10 points, name this novel by Laurence Sterne.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman
5

90483-)
This character is initiated into the "The Sons of Charm" after spending several years at St.Xavier's School and studying with a trader who teaches him to play the "jewel game". He has arecurring dream of a red bull in a green field. He first appears in front of a museum, sitting atop ahuge cannon. This character is dubbed "Friend of All the World" before he steals luggage containingincriminating letters from a group of (*) Russians. Colonel Creighton recruits this character to be one ofthe "chain men" under Hurree Babu, who allows him to continue his journey with a Tibetan lama whilealso working as a British agent. For 10 points, name this Irish orphan who becomes involved in the GreatGame in a namesake novel by Rudyard Kipling.
Kimball "Kim" O'Hara [accept any of the three underlined portions]
5

90535-)
In one story by this author, a character known as "T" usurps Blackie's spot at the head of a groupand is fascinated by a corkscrew-like staircase that is supported by nothing. He wrote a novel inwhich the plantation owner Rycker shoots the famous architect Querry after he goes to Africa towork in a leper colony. Mr. Thomas is locked in an outhouse while the "Wormsley Common Gang"senselessly dismantles his stately home in this author's story (*) "The Destructors." Sarah Miles vowsto stop seeing Maurice Bendrix after a bomb nearly kills him in one of his novels. The protagonist ofanother of his novels is a Whiskey Priest who is captured by the Lieutenant of Police as he performsCatholic rites in Mexico. For 10 points, name this British author of The End of the Affair and The Powerand the Glory.
Graham Greene
8

90560-)
This man wrote a pair of poems about a secret liaison called "Meeting at Night" and "Parting atMorning". He described what men "strive to do, and agonize to do, And fail in doing" in a passagethat coined the maxim "less is more." This author wrote of a "sullen wind" that "tore the elm-topsdown for spite" in a poem that begins "the rain set in early tonight". The speaker of that poemcalmly remarks "and yet, God has not said a word!" after (*) strangling his lover with her own hair. A"faultless painter" is the subject of his "Andrea del Sarto", while another of his works tells of a woman witha heart "too soon made glad" who was painted by Fra Pandolf. For 10 points, name this author of dramaticmonologues like "Porphyria's Lover" and "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning
5

90571-)
This poem's speaker states "I am a part of all that I have met" after asserting "I am become aname". Its speaker says that another character's job will be "to make mild a rugged people" and to"subdue them to the useful and the good". Its second stanza ends with the speaker declaring hisdesire "to follow knowledge like a sinking star, beyond the utmost bound of human thought". Thespeaker claims to "mete and dole (*) unequal laws unto a savage race" in this poem's first stanza. Its titlecharacter complains of "how dull it is to pause" and asserts "I cannot rest from travel; I will drink life to thelees". For 10 points, name this poem about a man who desires "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield",a Tennyson poem about a restless king of Ithaca
"Ulysses"
5

90577-)
An author with this last name wrote a poem which asks "What can I give Him, poor as I am?" and concludes that "what I can give Him" is "my heart." One poem by an author of this last name describes a figure with eyes "deeper than the depth of waters stilled" who had three lilies in her hand. Another poem by an author with this surname notes that though "one may lead a horse to water, twenty may not make him drink" while describing a struggle to open Lizzie's mouth. That poem by an author with this last name, whose brother wrote "The Blessed Damozel," sees the title creatures exhort maidens to "Come buy our orchard fruit, come buy, come buy." For 10 points, give this last name shared by the author of "Goblin Market," Christina, and her brother Dante Gabriel.
Rossetti
7

90611-)
Three of this poem's sections were originally published as individual poems, with titles like "Salutation" and "Som de l'escalina." The final section of this poem describes "the bent golden-rod," "the lost sea smell," and "the cry of the quail and the whirling plover," and discusses how "the lost heart stiffens and rejoices in the lost lilac and lost sea voices." This poem's fifth section repeatedly speaks of a "veiled sister" to pray for "those who walk in darkness." The second section of this poem begins by describing "three white leopards" sitting "under a juniper-tree." This poem, which begins "Because I do not hope to turn again," was written upon its author's conversion to Anglicanism. For 10 points, name this poem by T. S. Eliot named after the first day of Lent.
"Ash-Wednesday"
7

90643-)
A woman in this novel stops loving her husband after he gives their first child a haircut while she is asleep,although she was already turned off from him after finding unpaid furniture bills in his coat. The protagonistwins first prize at the Nottingham Castle painting exhibition, which earns him his brother's suit from awoman who still keeps a bible that she received from John Field. At a bar, the protagonist throws a beerin a man's face, after which that man gets thrown out of the bar and later gets fired from his factory job.(*) Baxter is the husband of one of the central women in this novel, while another lives on the Leivers' farm. Theprotagonist of this story fails to commit himself to his relationships with Miriam or Clara Dawes because of hisoverwhelming love for his mother, Gertrude. For 10 points, name this novel about Paul Morel by D. H. Lawrence.
Sons and Lovers
7

90650-)
This author criticized the pedantic vocabulary and ballad-like meter used in F.W. Newman's version of the Iliad in his On Translating Homer. The title character of one of his poems asserts that it's "better to be a serf" than to "be a crown'd king here, and rule the dead" during a visit from Hermod. Another poem by this author of "Balder Dead" tells of a "sweet city with her dreaming spires" which "needs not June for beauty's heightening" and laments "The bloom is gone, and with the bloom go I!" He urged "Ah, love, (*) let us be true to one another!" in a poem that describes the "eternal note of sadness" which Sophocles heard on the Aegean. This author of a monody for Arthur Hugh Clough described a "darkling plain" where "ignorant armies clash by night" in that poem, which opens "The sea is calm tonight". For 10 points, name this English poet of "Thyrsis" and "Dover Beach".
Matthew "marnold" Arnold
6

90669-)
In one poem, this man described a figure who "draws his breath in confidence of Heaven's applause" and who "every man in arms should wish to be". This author of "Character of the Happy Warrior" describes his home country as "a fen of stagnant waters: altar, sword and pen" and claims that the addressee's "soul was like a star" in a poem which begins by lamenting "Milton! thou shouldst be living at this hour". In another poem, he notes that he'd "rather be a (*) Pagan suckled in a creed outworn" and complains that "getting and spending, we lay waste our powers". In addition to "London, 1802" and "The World is Too Much With Us", he wrote a long poem recounting a visit to the banks of the Wye with his sister Dorothy and described seeing "a host of dancing Daffodils" in another poem. For 10 points, identify this author of "Tintern Abbey" and "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud".
William Wordsworth
6

90695-)
This author wrote a novel in which Charlie Norris and Peter Thomas and their wives are among the aging Welsh couples whose lives are disrupted by the return of Rhiannon and Alun Weaver. In another of his novels, Adriane Alexandrou helps the protagonist reach Vrakonisi, where he confronts Von Richter and the title Chinese military officer in order to rescue the kidnapped M. This author, who won the Booker Prize for The Old Devils, used the pseudonym "Robert Markham" for his (*) James Bond novel Colonel Sun. The protagonist of his most famous novel juggles relationships with Margaret Peel and Christine Callaghan and eventually drunkenly savages his department head, Professor Welch, during a lecture on "Merrie England". For 10 points, identify this father of fellow novelist Martin, the British author of Lucky Jim.
Kingsley Amis
6

90712-)
In one episode in this book, a carriage driver referred to as "Phaethon" stops to pick up a girl called "Persephone"; when the two are found kissing, the girl is spitefully kicked out of the carriage by Mr. Eager. During a walking tour in this novel, one character is ditched and has her Baedeker guidebook stolen by the novelist Eleanor Lavish. One character in this novel throws away some blood-soaked photographs in the aftermath of a street fight and becomes enraptured by the protagonist's beauty in a (*) field of violets. Its protagonist escapes Windy Corner by eloping with George Emerson, thus throwing over Cecil Vyse. This novel opens in the Pension Bertolini, where Charlotte Bartlett listens to Lucy Honeychurch's complaints about not being able to see the Arno. For 10 points, identify this 1908 novel by E.M. Forster.
A Room With a View
6

90747-)
This author wrote a publicly-released letter expressing anger at Lord Chesterfield's failures as a patron for his most famous project. He asked "On what Foundation stands the Warrior's Pride?" before outlining the career of Charles XII in a poem written as an imitation of Juvenal's tenth Satire. He took only a week to churn out a long story in which Nekayah and Imlac accompany the title (*) Abyssinian prince on a brief escape from Happy Valley. This author of "The Vanity of Human Wishes" expanded his Life of Savage into the critical-biographical collection Lives of the Poets. For 10 points, name this author of Rasselas and an early Dictionary of the English Language, the subject of a massive biography by James Boswell.
Samuel Johnson [or Dr. Johnson]
6

90810-)
This poem's speaker notes that we trust "that nothing walks with aimless feet" and that "somehow good will be the final goal of ill" before lamenting that he is "an infant crying in the night; and with no language but a cry". Its epilogue describes the wedding of the poet's sister, while its early sections relate its addressee's journey from Venice to the banks of the Severn. A late section of this poem is sometimes excerpted as "Ring Out, Wild Bells". This poem asks "are God and Nature then at strife?", describing the latter as (*) "red in tooth and claw". Its 84th canto relates a "truth that came with bier and pall", namely that "'tis better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all". For 10 points, identify this poem written as a requiem for the late Arthur Henry Hallam, a work of Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
"In Memoriam A.H.H."
6

90827-)
This character converses with Plutus and Masquerado in Ben Jonson's Love Restored. In one speech, this character says he is "sent with broom before / to sweep the dust behind the door". This character is asked to recall a time when his master heard the singing of a mermaid on dolphin-back This character successfully outspeeds the leviathan while fetching an herb called love-in-idleness. He offers a way to "restore amends" in his final speech, which opens (*) "If we shadows have offended...". He says "Jack shall have Jill / nought shall go ill" after re-anointing the eyes of several Athenian youths, while his earlier exploits included charming an ass's head onto Bottom's shoulders. For 10 points, identify this character from Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream, a mischievous spirit who serves as Oberon's jester.
Puck [or Robin Goodfellow; or Hobgoblin]
6

90842-)
A poem addressed to this man suggests that one of his own works described men dressed "half like Romans and half like the Knave of Hearts". This man, who is told to "hang it all" because "there can be but one Sordello" in Ezra Pound's Three Cantos, opened his collection Men and Women with a poem that abruptly concludes "Love is best" called "Love (*) Among the Ruins". One of this poet's speakers describes how "tonight's gay feast" could not "restrain / a sudden thought of one so pale" and relates that a certain woman "has not said a word!" after being strangled with her own hair. The subject of his most famous poem is accused of having "a heart too soon made glad" by a man who proudly describes Fra Pandolf's painting of her. For 10 points, name this British poet of such dramatic monologues as "Porphyria's Lover" and "My Last Duchess".
Robert Browning
6

90864-)
In the prefatory section "Before the Curtain", the "puppet" representing this character is said to be "uncommonly flexible in the joints". This character appears in the role of Clytemnestra in a game of charades held at Gaunt House. In a memorable scene, this character heaves copy of Samuel Johnson's dictionary out the window of a moving carriage, horrifying Miss Jemima. She wastes the life savings of both the servant Briggs and the landlord Raggles and carries on an adulterous relationship with Lord (*) Steyne. Earlier, she'd attempted to finagle her way into an inheritance by marrying Sir Pitt's son Rawdon Crawley. The novel opens with this character graduating from Miss Pinkerton's Academy for Young Ladies alongside her friend Amelia Sedley. For 10 points, identify this anti-heroine of William Makepeace Thackeray's Vanity Fair.
Becky Sharp [accept either underlined portion; also accept Rebecca Sharp; prompt on "Mrs. Rawdon Crawley"; accept Vanity Fair: A Novel Without a Hero before "this character" is read]
6

90888-)
In Stella Gibbons's Cold Comfort Farm, Mr. Mybug vacillates between Scapegoat and Pard-spirit for the title of a study of one author with this surname. Another author with this surname was deeply attached to the married Constantin HÃ©ger, a fact suppressed in the biography of that author by Elizabeth Gaskell. A novel by an author with this surname is framed as a series of letters sent to Jack Halford by the protagonist, who falls in love with Arthur Huntington's wife Helen Graham, the title character. Another author with this surname wrote a novel whose protagonist is locked in the (*) "red room" before attending the Lowood School. Later in that novel, Thornfield Hall is burned down by Bertha Mason and the protagonist marries Mr. Rochester. For 10 points, identify this surname that the authors of The Tenant of Wildfell Hall and Jane Eyre, Anne and Charlotte, shared with their sister Emily.
BrontÃ« [prompt on Bell; accept "Branwell", "Anne", "Charlotte", or "Emily" before "Bronte"] 
6

90909-)
One of this author's poems curses "dullards" who "made themselves immune to pity" and to "whatever shares / the eternal reciprocity of tears". Another of his poems describes seeking the counsel of the "kind old sun" and asks "what made fatuous sunbeams toil / to break Earth's sleep at all?" A time when "each slow dusk" is "a drawing-down of blinds" is described in another poem by this author of "Insensibility" and (*) "Futility". His best-known poem was written in response to Jessie Pope, a civilian propagandist, and describes an "ecstasy of fumbling" followed by the sight of a man "guttering, choking, drowning" due to a gas attack. This poet asked "What passing bells for those who die as cattle?" in "Anthem for Doomed Youth" For 10 points, name this British war poet who wrote about Horace's "Old Lie" in "Dulce et Decorum Est".
Wilfred Edward Salter Owen
6

90930-)
Some of this author's debt problems stemmed from a failed civet cat-breeding venture. In one of his novels, the title character is talked out of both suicide and piracy by the Quaker doctor William Walters. Another of his novels was inspired by Hayy ibn Yaqdhan's Philosophicus Autodidactus. A punishment handed down by Salathiel Lovell prompted this author of Captain Singleton to write "Hymn to the Pillory", which gained him public support during his time spent in the stocks for writing The (*) Shortest Way with the Dissenters. One of his title characters is sent to Virginia, where she reunites with her brother Humphrey, to whom she'd once been married. Another of his title characters escapes pirates with a boy named Xury, then later encounters the cannibal Friday on an island near the Orinoco. For 10 points, name this sometime spy who wrote the novels Moll Flanders and Robinson Crusoe.
Daniel Defoe [or Daniel Foe]
6

90945-)
This character is told by the intellectual Tommy Dukes that men and women have lost their attraction to each other. During a trip to Venice, this character claims that she is pregnant with Duncan Forbes's child and earlier had been proposed to by the Irish playwright Michaelis. After a trip to Uthwaite, she learns that the nurse Mrs. Bolton's husband died in the coal mines. This character's husband is paralyzed from the waist down and lives at the estate of Wragby. This sister of Hilda and daughter of Sir Malcolm is exposed by Bertha Coutts after starting an affair with Coutt's husband Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this title character who has an affair with a gamekeeper in a D.H. Lawrence novel titled for her "Lover."
Lady Chatterley [or  Connie or Constance; prompt on "Chatterley" or "Reid"; accept Lady Chatterley's Lover]
6

90999-)
In one scene in this play, the main character implies to his wife that there are horns growing out of his head. In another scene, the protagonist bizarrely yells "goats and monkeys" after arriving at the central location. Much of this work centers on an object with a strawberry motif that was given by an Egyptian sorceress to the title character's mother. In the opening scene Brabantio yells at the protagonist, and in its last pages, the main villain is apprehended by Ludovico. The fifth act begins with a lieutenant killing Roderigo and being wounded in the process and ends with the title character stabbing himself because he used a pillow to smother his wife Desdemona. For 10 points, identify this William Shakespeare tragedy about the title "Moor of Venice."
Othello [accept Otello]
6

91009-)
One novel by this author chronicles Percival's death in India and the subsequent conversations it inspires amongst six school friends. Nick Green writes a parody of the title character, who is sent by King James II as an ambassador to Constantinople in another of this author's novels. The title character of that work by this author is the fictional writer of the poem "The Oak Tree," and turns into a woman over the course of the novel. The title character of another novel by this member of the Bloomsbury Group admires the fact that Septimus was able to take his own life, and entertains characters such as Sally Seton and Peter Walsh at a party. For 10 points, name this female author of The Waves, Orlando and Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf
6

91025-)
One of this author's plays centers around a greedy man that is betrothed to Pecunia, who wrongly learns that his father Pennyboy Canter has died. In one poem, this author wrote about a "rosy wreath" that "when it grows, and smells" it smells of a woman that this author implores "drink to me only with thine eyes." In addition to The Staple of News and "To Celia" this author wrote a play in which Bonario is nearly disinherited by his father and Celia is sent to the title character as a gift. Throughout that work, Corbaccio, Corvino, and Voltore continually work with Mosca to try to be written into the title character's will. For 10 points, name this British playwright of Volpone and The Alchemist.
Ben Jonson
6

91056-)
The protagonist of this work breaks his back by jumping out of a window after reading a pamphlet. Will the English recommends visiting the Manse in this work, which contains a character who wears a "Peebee Shelley" mask while carrying out a crime. F. Alexander coined the title phrase of this novel and lives in a cottage marked HOME. This work, which opens at the Korova Milkbar, sees Pete marries Georgina at its end. Its protagonist licks an old man's shoes after being treated by Dr. Brodsky and watching "special films." The protagonist of this novel loves Beethoven and is sent to prison for killing an old woman at a house that he and his droogs broke into. For 10 points, name this novel by Anthony Burgess. 
A Clockwork Orange 
6

91063-)
One of this man's works ends with the lines "Tenants of the house, thoughts of a dry brain in a dry season." This author said that "I am an old man, a dull head among windy spaces" and also wrote about Madame Sosostris, the "famous clairvoyante" in a work that begins with "The Burial of the Dead." He wrote about the death of Thomas a Becket in the play Murder in the Cathedral and said that "This is the way the world ends, not with a bang but a whimper." This man wrote a poem set "in the room where the women come and go, talking of Michelangelo." One poem by this author ends with "Shantih, shantih, shantih" and opens by stating that "April is the cruelest month." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" and "The Waste Land."
Thomas Stearns Eliot 
6

91077-)
This author wrote a poem that asserts "They have looked each other between the eyes, and there they found no fault, They have taken the Oath of Brother-in-Blood  on leavened bread and salt." Another of his poems describes "Triumph and Disaster," about which the speaker implores "treat those two impostors just the same."  In that poem, he also tells the reader "never breathe a word about your loss" and "force your heart and nerve and sinew to serve your turn." This poet wrote that "Till Earth and sky stand presently at God's great Judgement Seat," "East is East and West is West, and never the twain shall meet." He also wrote "you'll be a man my son" to conclude his poem "If." For 10 points, name this poet, who also wrote The Jungle Book.
Joseph Rudyard Kipling
6

91086-)
In one novel by this author, a son kills his father, flees to America, and joins an Indian tribe. That character was the son of Effie Deans, who refused to be rescued by her lover Staunton from the Old Tolbooth Prison, which is the title location of one of this author's novels. After Douglas decides to leave Roderick's, Ellen weds Malcolm after presenting a ring given to her by Fitz-James to the king in this author's work The Lady of the Lake. Frank Osbaldistone falls in love with Diana Vernon, who is Sir Hildebrand's niece, in one novel by this author whose title character kills Rashleigh. This author of The Heart of Midlothian wrote about the son of Cedric whose wounds are tended to by Rebecca and Isaac after he vanquishes Brian de Bois-Guilbert; the title character of that work loves Rowena. For 10 points, name this author of Rob Roy and Ivanhoe.
Sir Walter Scott
6

91116-)
A poem based on this work concludes by saying that the title figure is "running to fat" and with the narrator asserting he brings "her a bottle of Nuit D'Amour." That poem about this work is subtitled "A Criticism of Life" and was written by Anthony Hecht. This work compares a melancholy noise to "the breath of the night-wind" and describes a location that lays like a "bright girdle furled." It suggests "let us be true to one another" because the world "hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light." It mentions "the eternal note of sadness" that "Sophocles long ago heard... on the Aegean." This poem describes the "grating roar of pebbles" and opens "the sea is calm tonight." For 10 points, name this poem that describes "where ignorant armies clash by night," a work of Matthew Arnold.
"Dover Beach"
6

91133-)
In one poem, this author asserted his birth was in the "sweat of death" and that he had "fallen twice in the feeding sea, grown Stale of Adam's brine." This author of "I Dreamed My Genesis" described his childhood as "happy as the grass was green" when he was "young and easy under the apple boughs." "Under the windings of the sea" and "no more may gulls cry at their ears" are given as the title times in his poem "And Death Shall Have No Dominion." This author of "Fern Hill" wrote that "blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay" and said that "old age should burn and rage at close of day." For 10 points, name this author who advised to "rage, rage against the dying of the light" in "Do Not Go Gentle Into that Good Night."
Dylan Thomas
6

91163-)
This poem is the epigraph to Eric Auerbach's Mimesis, and line 186 of "The Wasteland," about "chuckle spread from ear to ear" is a reference to this poem. Its last stanza describes the "willing soul" that "transpires at every pore with instant fires." It describes "your quaint honour turn to dust" and notes that "worms shall try" withering a certain quality that is "long preserv'd." This poem notes that "the grave's a fine and private place" and "before us lie deserts of vast eternity." The speaker of this poem imagines finding rubies by the Ganges and says that his "vegetable love should grow faster than empires, and more slow." Its speaker claims to hear "time's winged chariot hurrying near."  For 10 points, name this poem that begins "Had we but world enough, and time" written by Andrew Marvell.
"To His Coy Mistress"
6

91170-)
This poem's translation by Frank Warrin and Robert Scott is the subject of a part of the section "Minds and Thoughts" in Douglas Hofstadter's Godel, Escher, Bach. The title entity of this poem has "eyes of flame" and receives a "one, two! one, two!" that "left it dead." This work's narrative describes a "beamish boy" who returns with a head, causing a joyful response of "Callooh, Callay!" The speaker of this poem also warns about the "jubjub bird" and tells the addressee to shun the "frumious bandersnatch." The word "chortle" was coined in this work, which describes "slithy toves" that "gyre and gimble" as well as a figure who "took his vorpal sword in hand." For 10 points, name this work found within Through the Looking-Glass, a nonsense poem by Lewis Carroll.
"Jabberwocky" [do not accept "Jabberwock"]
6

91194-)
One character in this novel catches a cold after traveling to Netherfield Park in the rain. A clergyman in this novel reads a book of Fordyce's sermons to the family of the protagonist. In this work, the protagonist meets a lieutenant in the army named George Wickham who attempts to run away with the protagonist's sister, though he is eventually enticed to marry that sister by a mysterious benefactor. Lady Catherine du Bourgh tells this novel's protagonist not to accept the proposal of a man whom the protagonist had already rejected. William Collins and Charles Bingley appear in this work, which centers on the Bennet sisters. For 10 points, name this novel in which Elizabeth marries Fitzwilliam Darcy, by Jane Austen.
Pride and Prejudice
6

91270-)
In one poem, this author compared finding "A moulted feather, an eagle-feather" to a meeting with an individual who had met PB Shelley. The title character of one of his poems sings the line "God's in his Heaven/All's right with the world!" In addition to "Memorabilia" he wrote of a lecherous monk who wonders "What is the Greek word for "Swine's snout?" while leveling curses at his "heart's abhorrence" named Brother Lawrence. This author of "Pippa Passes" and "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" wrote of a painter who imagines his work appearing on the "Four Great Walls of Jerusalem" while the title figure of another poem has a heart "too soon made glad" and is the subject of a painting which "stands as if alive." For 10 points, identify this author of "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning
6

91274-)
At the end of this novel, the protagonist writes to the nearly blind and crazy Humphrey, inviting him to visit. In this novel, the Governess repents of her work as a pawn broker and hires a minister for the protagonist, whom she had earlier helped to deliver a child. This novel's title character is seduced by the Elder Brother but marries his younger brother Robert. Its protagonist's mother was a convict at Newgate who avoided execution by "pleading her belly." After realizing that she married her own brother, this novel's protagonist leaves Virginia for England where she has an affair with a married man, marries Jemy, and then marries a banker. For 10 points, name this novel about the adventures of the title con woman, a work by Daniel Defoe.
Moll Flanders
6

91285-)
This poet wrote "of golden sands, and crystal brooks with silken lines and silver hooks" in a poem that begins by quoting "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love." This poet said "so let us melt, and make no noise" in a poem that begins "as virtuous men pass mildly away." In one poem, he described the title figure as "mighty and dreadful" but "slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men." This poet of "The Bait" said that the title figure of another poem is "you and I and this our marriage bed" and that "it suck'd me first, and now sucks thee." This metaphysical poet of "Valediction Forbidding Mourning" said "Death, thou shalt die" in another poem. For 10 points, name this poet of "The Flea" and "Death, Be Not Proud."
John Donne
6

91315-)
This author wrote about the eviction of Nell Trent and her grandfather from The Old Curiosity Shop. In another work by this author, Abel Magwitch raises a fortune for the orphan Pip, who loves Estella. He also wrote about Sydney Carton sacrificing himself to save Charles Darnay in a work set in London and Paris. For 10 points, name this author who wrote Great Expectations and A Tale of Two Cities.
Charles Dickens [accept Boz]
1

91321-)
In one story from this collection, Palamon and Arcite fight over the hand of Emelye [EMILY], while in another story, an old hag notes that what women want most is to be in charge of their husbands. Those stories are told by, respectively, the Knight and the Wife of Bath, two of a group of pilgrims journeying to the shrine of Thomas á Becket in the title town. For 10 points, name this collection of tales by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales [prompt on "The Wife of Bath's Tale;" prompt on "The Knight's Tale"]
1

91355-)
This author wrote about a country at war with Blefuscu; he also created the land of Glubbdrubdrib and a flying island, Laputa. One of his characters goes to a land with 72-feet-tall men. This author also suggested that the rich should eat poor Irish children in "A Modest Proposal." For 10 points, identify this British author who wrote of the title character's journey to Lilliput in Gulliver's Travels.
Jonathan Swift
1

91371-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist's husband is murdered by his illegitimate son, known as "The Whistler", who is later killed by Indians in the Western U.S. In another of his novels, Donald Bean Lean deceives Colonel Gardner with a false report on the activities of the protagonist, letting him escape to France. In addition to that novel about Jeanie's attempts to get a pardon for her sister (*) Effie and one in which Edward gets involved in the Jacobite Rising, he wrote a novel in which Ulrica helps save the title character from the Bois-Guilbert. The title character of that novel heeds the third call to defend Rebecca from being burned as a witch, allowing him to marry Rowena. For 10 points, name this Scottish author of Waverley and Ivanhoe.
Sir Walter Scott
7

91389-)
This poet concluded, "Two paradises 'twere in one/To live in Paradise alone" in a stanza about Adam's life in Eden before Eve from one of his poems. He began one poem, "How vainly men themselves amaze/To win the palm, or oak or bays" and wrote about Thomas Fairfax's country estate in "Upon Appleton House". Another poem concerns a figure who "could not cease/in the inglorious arts of peace." This author of "The (*) Garden" and "An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland" wrote "My vegetable love should grow/Vaster than empires, and more slow" in a poem in which "Time's winged chariot hurr[ies] near." For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet who lamented "had we but world enough, and time" in "To His Coy Mistress."
Andrew Marvell
7

91403-)
In this novel, the owner of the Imperial and West Africa Rubber Company helps one character get lodging on Ducie Street after her house was set to be demolished. Evie's wedding to Percy Cahill is interrupted when the destitute housewife Jacky drunkenly reveals she had been the mistress of Evie's father while on Cyprus years ago. One character hears a "goblin footfall" when listening to (*) Beethoven's Fifth during a concert that ends when she accidentally takes the wrong umbrella home. At the end of this novel, Helen returns to England, pregnant with Leonard Bast's illegitimate child, but is accepted by her sister Margaret. For 10 points, name this E. M. Forsters novel in which Henry Wilcox ultimately leaves the title estate to the Schlegels.
Howards End
7

91410-)
In this author's first novel, John Kemp creates the title imaginary woman in order to help with his transition to Oxford from Huddlesford. This author of Jill wrote a poem whose speaker smells a fish market on a train ride during which he also sees "fathers with broad belts" and "mothers loud and fat" celebrating the title events. Another of his poems discusses a stone monument that concludes "what will survive of us is love." Another poem by this author of  (*)"Whitsun Weddings" and "An Arundel Tomb" closes with the charming lines "Get out as early as you can, And don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this British poet who famously stated "they fuck you up, your mum and dad" in his "This Be the Verse."
Philip Larkin
7

91421-)
One critic noted that this writer attempted to widen the separation between prose and metrical composition, citing the lines "I fruitless mourn to him that cannot hear,/And weep the more because I weep in vain" from this author's "Sonnet on the Death of Richard West." He asks "what female heart can gold despise" in a poem describing the death of the pensive (*) Selima before concluding "nor all that glisters gold." His most famous work includes the lines "Here rests his head upon the lap of earth /A youth to fortune and to fame unknown" in "The Epitaph" and opens "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, name the 18th century poet of "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat" and "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
Thomas Gray
7

91445-)
This character describes how lovers "vow to weep seas, live in fire, eat rocks, tame tigers" to illustrate that the "monstrosity in love" is that "the desire is boundless and the act to slave a limit." This character uses the metaphor of taking a wife to advocate the defense of a captive to Helenus before their wailing sister enters. This character gives his lover a sleeve when she is exchanged with (*) Antenor. This character is compared favorably to Hector and he cries "O beauty! Where is thy faith?" when Ulysses shows him his lover with Diomedes. Earlier, he pledges that his name shall eternally represent faithfulness before his lover ties her name to falsehood in a bargain sealed by her uncle Pandarus. For 10 points, name this Trojan Shakespeare character who loves Cressida.
Troilus
7

91455-)
This play's prologue describes a woman who "puts much salt and pepper in her prattle." In one scene in this play, a character is told that the petticoat he spots behind a screen belongs to a French hatmaker. In its first act, Benjamin Backbite and Crabtree discuss the arrival of a man from the East Indies. In this play's third act, that man pretends to be a (*) moneylender named Mr. Premium who tries to buy paintings from his nephew in order to test his virtue. Joseph's relationship with Lady Teazle is revealed by Charles Surface at the climax of this play, after which Sir Oliver Surface gives his blessing to Charles and Maria. For 10 points, name this play about a group of gossipers led by Lady Sneerwell, written by Richard Sheridan.  
The School for Scandal
7

91533-)
One poem by this author addresses a "stern cold man" whom the speaker refuses to believe is actually dead and closes "It's not true,/I am frightened, I am frightened of you." This author of "A Woman and her Dead Husband" wrote a poem in which the speaker picks up a "clumsy log" to throw at a water-trough that the title creature had come to. In a story by this author, Paul becomes involved with Bassett's (*) betting to provide extra money for Hester, but dies after picking Malabar to win a race while riding the title toy. This author of "Snake" and "The Rocking Horse Winner" wrote about the Wragby Estate gamekeeper Oliver Mellors, who has an affair with the wife of the crippled Clifford. For 10 points, name this author of Lady Chatterley's Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence
7

91551-)
At the close of one story by this author, Francis Marion is revealed to have died during a game of hide-and-seek. In another story by him, a boy named T leads the Wormsley Common Gang in the dismantling of the home of a man they call Old Misery, whom they lock in an outhouse. This author of "The End of the Party," and "The Destructors" wrote a novel referencing a type of candy in the title in which (*) Pinkie Brown is tracked down by Ida Arnold after killing newspaperman Fred Hale. In another novel by this author, Yusuf smuggles diamonds on a Portuguese ship with the help of Henry Scobie. For 10 points name this British author who wrote Brighton Rock, The Heart of the Matter, and novel about the Whiskey Priest, titled The Power and the Glory.
Graham Greene
7

91572-)
This poem evokes "grey wallsÂ… on which dull Time/Feeds, like slow fire upon a hoary brand." In this poem, such abstractions as "Desires and Adorations, Winged Persuasions and veiled Destinies, Splendours, and Glooms" are later joined by Chatterton, Lucan, and Sidney under "Rome's azure sky." The speaker of this poem abruptly says (*) "Peace, peace," declaring that the title character "hath awakened from the dream of life." This poem, which invokes Aphrodite's aspect Urania to lead a procession of mourners, declares that "life, like a dome of many-coloured glass, Stains the white radiance of Eternity." It opens "I weep for" the title character Â– "he is dead." For 10 points, name this elegy for the late John Keats, written by Percy Shelley.
Adonais: An Elegy on the Death of John Keats, Author of Endymion, Hyperion, etc. 
7

91584-)
The fourth section of this novel begins by describing the tale of Slawkenbergius before going into a discussion about noses. In this novel, the description of two characters entering the house of Mrs. Wadman and Bridget are followed by two blank chapters. This novel opens with the protagonist wondering whether he would have been conceived differently if his mother had not asked about (*) winding a clock while having sex. The title character remembers the day when a window sash dropped by Susannah led to his circumcision. Recurring characters in this novel include Parson Yorick and Uncle Toby. For 10 points, name this novel about the "Life and Opinions" of the title character, written by Laurence Sterne.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman
7

91613-)
Harold Bloom's The Visionary Company highlights the similarities in the portrayal of natural death in the third stanza of this poem to Coleridge's "Frost at Midnight." The subject of this poem is compared to a "gleaner" who "keep[s] steady thy laden head across a brook" and can be found both "by a cider press, with patient look" and "sitting careless on a (*) granary floor." The speaker of this poem rhetorically inquires, "Where are the songs of Spring?" claiming that the subject should "think not of them."  Its subject is described as a "close bosom-friend of the maturing sun" which conspires to "load and bless with fruit the vines that round the thatch-eaves run."  For 10 points, name this John Keats poem addressed to a season "of mists and mellow fruitfulness."
"To Autumn"
7

91645-)
The final poem in this collection asserts that "Folly is an endless maze" and exhorts the "Youth of delight!" to "come hither". In another poem from this collection, a character says that love "seeketh not itself to please," after which another character "warbled out" some metres from a brook in refutation. This collection, which contains "The Voice of the Ancient Bard" and (*) "The Clod and the Pebble", also contains a poem in which an "apple bright" is produced from "A Poison Tree." Its most famous poem asks of the title figure "What immortal hand or eye could frame thy fearful symmetry?" and describes it as "burning bright". For 10 points, "The Tyger" is found in which William Blake poetry collection, often paired with a collection about innocence?
Songs of Innocence and of Experience (Showing the Two Contrary States of the Human Soul) [do not accept "Songs of Innocence" alone, but absolutely do accept Songs of Innocence and of Experience]
7

91661-)
One member of this family imagines a giant, black harpy bearing down on him and repeatedly pictures himself stabbing his father.  Another member of this family envisions success as an alphabet, with Z representing the greatest men of a generation, and wonders how to advance to R from Q.  That character is upset when a dinner guest asks for a second bowl of soup. A third member of this family worries that repairs to a (*) greenhouse will cost fifty pounds.  Its members Prue and Andrew die of childbirth and in World War I.  Its youngest children Cam and James undertake a trip by boat with their father in the last section of the novel.  For 10 points, name this family that appears alongside Lily Briscoe in Virginia Woolf's novel To The Lighthouse.
Ramsay family
7

91682-)
The narrator of this work is refused admittance to a library where she wants to view a manuscript of Milton's "Lycidas" and identifies herself as "Mary Beton, Mary Seton, [or] Mary Carmichael."  The narrator pities the "anger and bitterness" of Lady Winchilsea and criticizes Charlotte BrontÃ« for an awkward authorial intervention in Jane Eyre.  The final chapter of this essay addresses Coleridge's idea that "a great mind is (*) androgynous."  This essay discusses the novelty of the sentence "Chloe liked Olivia" and says that Jane Austen was exceptional for her ability to write fiction without possessing the title location.  For 10 points, name this work which hypothesizes that women only need the title location to be writers, a feminist essay by Virginia Woolf.
"A Room of One's Own"
7

91703-)
In this novel, an old Roman amphitheater known as "The Ring" was where a woman who murdered her husband was "half-strangled" and later burned in 1705. One character in this novel goes to work without pants due to his tendency to oversleep, and another character organizes a "skimmity-ride" after (*) Jopp reads the love letters of the protagonist out loud in an inn, resulting in the death of Lucetta from a miscarriage. This novel's protagonist puts his trust in a "weather prophet" in order to gain the upper hand on his rival, Donald Farfrae, who towards the end marries Elizabeth-Jane. At this novel's opening, the protagonist sells his wife and child for five guineas at Weydon Fair. For 10 points, name this novel about Michael Henchard, written by Thomas Hardy.
The Mayor of Casterbridge
7

91717-)
The antagonist of this play gets banished along with Thomas Mowbray after each accuses the other of treason. Hearing music played outside his prison, the title character of this play asserts, "I wasted time, and now doth time waste me." The author of this play got in trouble with Queen Elizabeth after staging it for the Earl of Essex just before his rebellion. A speech in this play originated the phrase "sceptered isle" and laments the leasing of "this blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England." The title character of this play is (*) murdered by Exton after being overthrown by Henry Bolingbroke, whom he had disinherited after the death of John of Gaunt. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean history play about the monarch succeeded by Henry IV.
The Life and Death of Richard II
7

91741-)
The title character of one of this man's novels hears a woman he names Goneril convince CaptainSteerforth to kill a man while aboard the SS Caliban. The protagonist of another of his works refusesto divorce Brenda so he need not sell Hetton Abbey. In that novel by this man, a trip to SouthAmerica results in Tony (*) Last being captured and forced to read Dickens aloud. This author of the TheOrdeal of Gilbert Pinfold created an alcoholic son of the Marquis of Marchmain who tries to join amonastery in Carthage. That novel by this man focuses on Sebastian Flyte, who befriends the narrator, apainter named Charles Ryder. For 10 points, name this British author of A Handful of Dust and BridesheadRevisited.
Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]
5

91780-)
A section deleted from this novel titled "The Grey Man" was originally added at the request ofWilliam Ernest Henley. This book ends with the narrator missing his meeting with the publisherRichardson in order to wait half an hour for a character who never reappears. It opens at agathering attended by Filby, the Doctor, and the Amateur Cadger, at which a man describes a visit toa beach with (*) blood-red sands and a population of menacing red crabs. This novella's protagonistaccidentally sets a forest on fire, killing his diminutive companion Weena, though he is able to escape fromthe cave-dwelling Morlocks, who terrorize the peaceful Eloi. For 10 points, name this H.G. Wells novellawhose protagonist uses the title device to visit the year 802,701 A.D.
The Time Machine
5

91784-)
Sounds in this work are made by the "dry grass singing" and "the hermit-thrush" that" "sings inthe pine trees." Other imagery in this poem includes "sad light" in which" "a carved dolphin swam"and a chair which "like a burnished throne, glowed on the marble". Its closing lines referenceNerval's line about a Prince of Aquitane, and one section concludes by noting "To Carthage then Icame, (*) Burning burning burning burning." A short section of this poem references "Phlebas thePhoenician, a fortnight dead." Published in The Dial , its narrators include Tiresias and Madame Sosostris.It includes the line "I will show you fear in a handful of dust" in the part "The Burial of the Dead." For 10points, identify this poem by T.S. Eliot.
"The Waste Land"
5

91789-)
The speaker commands, "Hurry, hurry to the field" at the end of this author's poem "The FatalSisters". The speaker of another of his poems asks, "What idle progeny succeed, to chase the rollingcircle's speed, or urge the flying ball?" His bestknown poem contains the line, "Let not Ambitionmock their useful toil" and has an epitaph that begins, "Here rests his head upon the lap of earth, a(*) youth to fortune and to fame unknown." That same poem by this author begins, "The curfew tolls theknell of parting day". This author famously wrote "Where ignorance is bliss, 'Tis folly to be wise" in his"Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College". For 10 points, name this author of "Elegy Written in aCountry Churchyard".
Thomas Gray [or "The Fatal Sisters" until it is read]
5

91804-)
This man examined writing "From Confucius' Day to Our Own" in his last book, The March ofLiterature, and wrote a historical trilogy about Katharine Howard called The Fifth Queen. Thisman's character Valentine Wannop appears in the volumes Some Do Not... and A Man Could StandUp -, in which she has an affair with "the Last Tory", Christopher (*) Tietjens. While being treated atNauheim for his fake heart condition, the title character of one of his books has an affair with Florence, thenarrator's wife. That novel begins with the line "This is the saddest story I have ever heard" and followsJohn Dowell's betrayal by Edward Ashburnham. For 10 points, name this British author of Parade's Endand The Good Soldier.
Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer; or Ford Madox Hueffer]
5

91828-)
One character in this novel ends up in Mr. Kirwin's Irish prison after washing ashore and beingaccused of murder. In exchange for that character's work in the Orkneys, another character in thisnovel vows to move to South America and tend a garden. That character in this novel improves hisFrench by reading Paradise Lost and Plutarch's Lives outside Felix and Agatha's cottage. This novel'sprotagonist becomes disillusioned with the (*) science of Paracelsus and Albertus Magnus whilestudying at the University of Ingolstadt. This novel's antagonist strangles Henry Clerval and ElizabethLavenza. Near this novel's beginning, Captain Walton picks up a doctor who is chasing his monstrouscreation on a dogsled across the Arctic ice. For 10 points, name this novel by Mary Shelley.
Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
5

91846-)
This novel's characters channel their inner William James by repeatedly referring to Success asthe Bitch Goddess. The heroine of this work has a brief affair with the Irish playwright Michaelis,and agrees to serve as a model for Duncan Forbes in return for his help securing her divorce. Oneman is accused of making love in the "Italian way" by his wife (*) Bertha Coutts. The title character ofthis novel almost died of pneumonia in the army in India, which impacts his ability to push his employer'swheelchair. The protagonist's husband, Clifford, was paralyzed in World War I. For 10 points, name thisnovel in which Constance has an affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors, a controversial work of D. H.Lawrence.
Lady Chatterley's Lover
5

91866-)
One poem by this author begins with the Bellman noting thrice that where he landed his crew was"just the place" for the title activity, and that "What I tell you three times is true." The Bakermysteriously disappears at the end of that poem, which is subtitled "An Agony in 8 Fits". In anotherof this author's poems, after chasing his fiery-eyed "manxome" foe, a character stands by a Tumtumtree in "uffish thought." That poem opens with the line "twas (*) brillig, and the slithy toves did gyreand gimble in the wabe," and sees the title creature slain with a vorpal blade. For 10 points, identify thisBritish author of nonsense poems like "The Hunting of the Snark" and "Jabberwocky," which appeared inthe sequel to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
Lewis Carroll [or Charles Lutwidge Dodgson]
5

91897-)
A character with this surname is offended when his reading from Fordyce's Sermons isinterrupted and effusively praises Lady Catherine de Bourgh. An author with this last name wrote anovel in which Count Fosco and Percival Glyde mastermind a plot involving the similar-lookingAnne Catherick and Laura Fairlie, which is discovered by Marian Halcombe. That author of thissurname penned a mystery in which Ezra Jennings helps prove Franklin Blake innocent of a (*)jewel theft perpetrated by Godfrey Ablewhite. A character of this name is a clergyman who marriesCharlotte Lucas after his proposal is rejected by Elizabeth Bennet in Pride and Prejudice. For 10 points,identify this last name of the author of The Woman in White and The Moonstone.
Collins [accept Wilkie Collins or William Collins]
5

91923-)
This play's author was sufficiently angered by Herbert Beerbohm Tree's changes to its ending toappend the essay "What Happened Afterwards" to printed versions. It opens with a mother naggingher son for not trying hard enough to get a cab, forcing him to go back out into the rain to look forone. During that rainstorm, a man in this play is accused of working for the police because he istaking notes on the behavior of a girl selling (*) flowers in Covent Garden. This play's protagonistfamously exclaims "Not bloody likely!" while the Eynsford-Hill family is visiting her mentor's mother. For10 points, identify this play in which Henry Higgins make a bet that he can rid Eliza Doolittle of herCockney accent, a work of George Bernard Shaw.
Pygmalion
5

91928-)
In this novel, Mr. Lloyd and Maria Temple help clear the protagonist of a lying charge. Acharacter in this novel meets her employer after his horse slips on some ice and later commissions agravestone for a friend that bears the inscription "Resurgam." The protagonist of this novel is sent tothe "red room" at Gateshead by Mrs. Reed, who later sends her to Mr. (*) Brocklehurst's LowoodSchool, where she meets Helen Burns. After refusing to go to India with her cousin St. John Rivers, theprotagonist of this novel returns to the place where she had been hired by Mrs. Fairfax to tutor AdeleVarens. In this novel, Bertha Mason burns down Thornfield Hall. For 10 points, name this novel byCharlotte BrontÃ« about a governess who loves Edward Rochester.
Jane Eyre
5

91941-)
In one short story by this author, a "secretary" pretends he is planning the execution oftwenty-six Jews to give the Huddle siblings the title "Unrest Cure". In another story by this author, afifteen-year old describes her aunt's "great tragedy". This creator of Clovis Sangrail also created acharacter who lives near a Houdan hen and is praised by Conradin for slaying the disagreeable Mrs.De Ropp; that character is a (*) pole-cat ferret named Sredni Vashtar. This author wrote a short story inwhich Framton Nuttel is duped into believing that Mrs. Sappleton's husband perished, leading to hisastonishment upon seeing that same husband returning home through the title opening. For 10 points, namethis British author of "The Open Window".
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro]
5

91959-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems praises the "giver of breath and bread" who "hastbound bones and veins in me." His distress and depression while teaching at University CollegeDublin gave rise to a series of so-called "terrible sonnets". One of his poems describes the "brutebeauty and valour and act" of a recently-caught "morning's minion,", while another is dedicated to(*) nuns who drowned after fleeing Germany. Another poem by this author extols "skies of couple-colouras a brinded cow" and begins "Glory be to God for dappled things." This author wrote about a"dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon" in a poem which pioneered "sprung rhythm." For 10 points, identify thisBritish poet of "The Wreck of the Deutschland", "The Windhover", and "Pied Beauty."
Gerard Manley Hopkins
5

91974-)
This character browbeats a messenger into identifying a woman as a thirty-year-old widow who"creeps" and has a round face and a low brow. In another scene, she discursively describes a dreamabout a man whose "delights were dolphin-like", ignoring the interruptions of Dolabella. Themessenger Thyreus is whipped after kissing this character's hand. The handmaids Iras andCharmian serve this character, who describes a time when she was "green in judgement" as her (*)"salad days". Enobarbus claims that "Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale her infinite variety". Thiswoman commits suicide with an asp after fleeing from battle at Actium and being captured by Octavian.For 10 points, name this Shakespearean character, an Egyptian queen beloved by Antony.
Cleopatra VII
5

91982-)
Excerpts from six of this author's works were combined into a 2008 play by John Reed. He wasdubbed a "Johannes factotum" and an "upstart Crow" who had a "Tiger's heart wrapped in aPlayer's hide" in Robert Greene's Groats-Worth of Wit. He is the subject of a Harold Bloom booksubtitled "The Invention of the Human" and Stephen Greenblatt's (*) Will in the World. T.S. Eliotpopularized the term "objective correlative" in an essay about one of this man's works, while GeorgeBernard Shaw mocked excessive worship of him with the term "bardolatry". For 10 points, name thisauthor of the poems "The Phoenix and the Turtle" and "Venus and Adonis", as well as a play that wasanalyzed in Thomas de Quincey's essay "On the Knocking at the Gate in Macbeth".
William Shakespeare [do not accept any non-Shakespeare authors]
5

92007-)
Early in this play, two characters display their characteristic humors by insultingly calling a man"Mephistophilus" and "a Banbury cheese". Upon being denied a loan, one character in this playdelivers the line "Why, then, the world's mine oyster". In two comic scenes, this play's centralcharacter hides in a basket of dirty laundry and is tricked into dressing as (*) Herne the Hunter. In itsclimactic scene, Caius and Slender are fooled into abducting boys, while Fenton marries Anne. This playwas supposedly written in two weeks at the whim of Queen Elizabeth, who wanted to see its centralcharacter "in love". For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Falstaff fails to carry out affairswith the title characters, Mistresses Page and Ford.
The Merry Wives of Windsor
5

92008-)
This novel's narrator finds strange code in a book on seamanship, but it turns out the code is justsome notes in Russian written by a man dressed like a harlequin. One character in this novel passescontrol of a boat to a "pilgrim" in order to throw a pair of bloody shoes overboard after a manfeared by the General Manager orders an attack. A character in this novel waits for a (*) shipment ofrivets to repair his steamboat and is entrusted with a report whose handwritten postscript reads"Exterminate all the brutes!" This novel's frame narrative is set on the Nellie, a ship anchored in theThames. In this novel, Charlie Marlow hears "The horror! The horror!" as Mr. Kurtz dies. For 10 points,name this novella about the Congo by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness
5

92025-)
In one poem, this phrase appears after the musings of a tyrant's wife and daughter that oneshouldn't "provoke the lion Â…whom a desire for blood" will send "raging so swiftly through the coreof destruction." That poem suggests that "steed and spear" make youths "the Parthians' dread".The speaker of a poem with this title saw a man drowning "as under a green sea" while participatingin an (*) "ecstasy of fumbling" for his gas mask. That poem, which opens by describing people "bentdouble, like old beggars under sacks," says one would not say this phrase "with such high zest" to "childrenardent for some desperate glory." For 10 points, identify this Latin phrase that precedes "pro patria mori" inpoems by Horace and Wilfred Owen.
dulce et decorum est pro patria mori [accept rough translations like "it is sweet and dignified to die for your country"]
5

92029-)
In one of this author's poems, the speaker remembers a time when he was "happy upon the heath"before his parents "clothed [him] in clothes of death" and went "up to the church to pray." Anotherof his poems describes a voice that makes "all the vales rejoice". This author describes a "little blackthing among the snow" who cries "in tones of woe" (*) "'weep! 'weep!" in "The Chimney Sweeper".Another of his poems asks "Did he smile his work to see" after "the stars threw down their spears" and"watered heaven with their tears." That poem by this author describes a creature "burning bright, in theforests of the night." For 10 points, name this British poet whose Songs of Innocence and Experienceincludes "The Lamb" and "The Tyger."
William Blake
5

92117-)
This poet described a creature who "thinketh no evil, but sings" in his anti-Vinkensport poem"The Blinded Bird". In another poem, he wishes for a "vengeful god" to clarify his suffering bytelling him "thy love's loss is my hate's profiting!" and expresses frustration with "purblindDoomsters". This author of "Hap" described the "Immanent Will" creating a "Shape of Ice" in apoem about the (*) Titanic called "The Convergence of the Twain". While leaning "upon a coppice gate",the speaker of his best-known poem hears the title bird "fling his soul upon the growing gloom". For 10points, name this British author of "The Darkling Thrush" and the Wessex Poems, as well as novels likeTess of the d'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
5

92126-)
The speaker of the first poem in this collection finds herself drawn "backward by the hair" by a"shape" that asks, "Guess now who holds thee?" The speaker of another poem in this collectionmentions a "passion put to use" in "old griefs." Its first poem begins with the speaker thinking aboutthe "sweet years, the dear and wished-for years" of which "Theocritus had sung." Due to theirintimate nature, these poems were originally presented as having been written in (*) Bosnian. In thepenultimate poem in this collection, the speaker claims she loves "to the depth and breadth and height / Mysoul can reach" after asking "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways." For 10 points, identify thiscollection of fourteen line poems by Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
Sonnets from the Portuguese
5

92150-)
The protagonist of this poem cites Adam, Solomon, Samson, and David as other noble men deceived by women near its conclusion, which hearkens back to its opening about when the "siege and assault had ceased at Troy." This poem was written using a pattern of a short alliterative bob and a rhyming, four-line wheel. The two title characters of this poem agree to (*) re-convene a year and a day after the opening scene, causing the protagonist to journey to the castle of Lord Bertilak, where he is given a ring and magic girdle. This creation of the Pearl Poet opens when an axe-wielding man is sent by Morgan Le Fay to King Arthur's court. For 10 points, name this Middle English romance depicting a beheading contest involving a knight of the round table.
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
5

92158-)
This language was used to write "For a Swarm of Bees", one of twelve surviving metrical charmsin this language. This language's "Rhyming Poem" is unusual because this language's verse isnormally alliterative, not rhyming. A poem in this language about the story of Judith and Holofernesis found in the Nowell Codex. A partially extant poem from this language commemorates the Battleof (*) Maldon. In a poem in this language, a monstrous woman is killed by a magical sword in her home atthe bottom of a lake, after she kills Aeschere. The hero of that poem is mortally wounded when he slays adragon, and he saves the hall Heorot from the monster Grendel. For 10 points, name this language whichwas used to write Beowulf.
Old English [or Anglo-Saxon; do not accept or prompt on "English"]
5

92169-)
At the beginning of this play, Prince Escalus declares that the next man to break the peace will be sentenced to death. One title character originally loves Rosaline, while the other is admired by Paris. The former character seeks assistance from the Apothecary and slays Tybalt. Featuring a pair of "star-cross'd lovers" is, for 10 points, which Shakespeare play about the children of the feuding Montagues and Capulets?
Romeo and Juliet
1

92179-)
This work begins with a word that means "what" and calls for attention. Its three battle scenes,including one against a dragon, are each followed by a funeral scene. While fighting without a weapon,the title character of this work tears an arm from an opponent in the dining hall Heorot (HAY-or-oht),which was built by the Danish king Hrothgar (ROTH-gar). For 10 points, name this Old English epicpoem about a Geat (gate) warrior who defeats Grendel.
Beowulf
1

92183-)
The characters in this novel are either "biguns" or "littluns." In this novel, a fat asthmatic is killed by afalling rock that also shatters a conch shell, and a group of choir boys led by Jack Merridew kill a sowand impale her head on a stick as an offering for "the beast." Ralph, elected leader of a group of strandedboys, fails to prevent their descent into savagery in, for 10 points, what novel by William Golding?
Lord of the Flies
1

92205-)
This character watches a lion and a unicorn fight over a crown, and although her cat Dinah will not talk to her, the Tiger Lily and the other flowers will. She shrinks after drinking a potion labeled "Drink Me,"and attends a tea party with a sleepy Dormouse, a March Hare, and a Mad Hatter. For 10 points, name this girl from Through the Looking Glass, a Lewis Carroll character that also went on Adventures in Wonderland.
Alice [accept The White King until "her"]
1

92220-)
This man's nonfiction work A Footnote to History includes firsthand accounts of civil war in Samoa.He wrote a story in which Dr. Lanyon dies from shock after seeing a respectable doctor turn into themurderer Edward Hyde. This man's novel Catriona (kuh-TREE-nuh) is a sequel to a work about DavidBalfour, and another of his works features the pirate Long John Silver. For 10 points, name this author ofKidnapped and Treasure Island.
Robert Louis Balfour Stevenson
1

92243-)
In one essay, this author declared that "the pause is fatal" when we stop to laugh while reading atranslation of Homer. In another essay, this author of "On Not Knowing Greek" attacks the opinionsof Lord Birkenhead and, in a section narrated by the Four Marys, suggests the necessity of havingfive hundred pounds a year in order to write. That essay argues that opportunity, not ability, wouldhave prevented the emergence of (*) Judith Shakespeare. In one of her novels, the title characterremembers a kiss with Sally Seton being interrupted by Peter Walsh. That novel by this author sees theshell-shocked Septimus Smith commit suicide on the night of the title character's dinner party. For 10points, name this author of "A Room of One's Own" and Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Stephen]
5

92256-)
This character is told that if one has twenty pounds of income, then spending just under twentypounds will yield happiness while spending just over that sum will yield misery. This character'shousekeeper and mother are both named Clara, so, to prevent confusion, the housekeeper goes by (*)Peegotty. After running away from his stepfather Edward Murdstone, this character goes to live with hisaunt Betsey Trotwood. After Dora Spenlow dies due to a miscarriage, this man re-marries to AgnesWickfield and helps unmask the misdeeds of Uriah Heep. For 10 points, identify this title character of aCharles Dickens novel.
David Copperfield [accept either]
5

92263-)
A poet inspired by a visit to this location recalled "looking on the happy autumn-fields" in hispoem "Tears, Idle Tears." Another poem describes how with "somewhat of a sad perplexity thepicture of the mind" of this place "revives again", while the speaker stands there reminiscing how he"came among these hills" and "bounded o'er the mountains." That speaker once again beholds the(*) "steep and lofty cliffs" of this location, upon returning here after "Five years have past; five summers,with the length of five long winters!" For 10 points, identify this ruined monastery on the banks of the riverWye, "a few miles above" which a few lines were written by William Wordsworth.
Tintern Abbey
5

92285-)
In one poem, this poet described how "this air I gather and release" was lived on by a man who "fired France for Mary without spot." This poet claimed that "after-comers cannot guess the beauty been" in a poem about the felling of his "aspens dear." This poet of "Duns Scotus's Oxford" and "Binsey Poplars" asked, "Why do men then now not reck his rod?" in a poem whose subject "will flame out, like shining from shook foil." Another of his poems describes "fresh-firecoal chestnut-falls" and "rose-moles all in stipple upon trout that swim" and begins, "Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this British poet, a proponent of sprung rhythm who wrote "Pied Beauty" and "God's Grandeur."
Gerard Manley Hopkins
7

92318-)
The protagonist of a series of this author's novels befriends Prettiman on his voyage to Australia,and falls in love with Marion Chumley, who is traveling aboard the Alcyone. That series of novelscenters on Edmund Talbot, and includes Fire Down Below and Close Quarters. This author's To theEnds of the Earth trilogy begins with (*) Rites of Passage, but he's more famous for a novel in whichRobert is almost killed while pretending to be a boar. In that book, a fighter pilot's body is mistaken for theBeast, and rival groups of boys fight over Piggy's glasses and a conch. For 10 points, name this Britishauthor of Lord of the Flies.
William Gerald Golding
5

92322-)
This work notes that a certain commodity will be most prevalent in March, due to its proximity toLent, and suggests a way to make gloves for ladies and boots for gentlemen. It ends with the authornoting that he has no ulterior motive, due to the advanced age of his wife. The author of this workopposes "voluntary (*) Abortions" and the "horrid practice of Women murdering their Bastard Children."This essay opens by noting how terrible it is to see a female beggar with three, four, or six kids in tow, andoutlines a scheme by which population would be lessened and a new dish created. For 10 points, name thissatirical essay by Jonathan Swift, which suggests that poor people should sell their children to be eaten bythe rich.
"A Modest Proposal" [or "A Modest Proposal for Preventing the Children of the Poor From Being a Burthen to Their Parents or Country, and for Making Them Beneficial to the Publick"]
5

92350-)
One of this work's title characters crashes a party in an attempt to win the love of Rosaline. At that party he meets the other title character, who is the cousin of Tybalt. At the end of this play, Prince Escalus pronounces peace in Verona between the two central families. For 10 points, name this play about the feud between the Montagues and Capulets, written by William Shakespeare. 
Romeo and Juliet 
1

92371-)
In one scene in this novel, a Sheep talks of "crabs" and "feathers" while rowing. This novel begins with the protagonist blaming the black kitten, the offspring of Dinah, for the whole thing. In this novel, the protagonist plays a massively scaled chess game with the Red Queen. For 10 points, name this sequel to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland whose title refers to the other side of a mirror.
Through the Looking-Glass [do not accept or prompt on "Alice's Adventures in  Wonderland" or "Alice in Wonderland"] 
1

92381-)
This man's essays include one about a policeman in Burma "Shooting an Elephant." He wrote a novel in which O'Brien sends Winston Smith to Room 101 in the dystopian state of Oceania. In another novel by this man, the death of Old Major results in a power struggle between Snowball and Napoleon, who represent Trotsky and Stalin. For 10 points, name this author of 1984 and Animal Farm. 
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair] 
1

92408-)
This work's narrator evokes the phrase "morituri te salutant" after he glimpses two women feverishly knitting black wool. The narrator describes a character with a seemingly pointless profession as a "papier-mÃ¢chÃ© Mephistopheles" in this work, which describes a journey on a steamboat with the Eldorado Exploring Expedition. At the end of this novel, the narrator refuses to tell the Intended that a man's last words were "the horror! The horror!" For 10 points, name this novella about Marlowe's attempts to find Kurtz in the Congo, by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness
6

92433-)
In one poem, this author described the title entity as being the "season of mists and mellow fruitfulness." In another poem, he confessed "much have I travell'd in the realms of gold," and admires how, "with eagle eyes," "stout Cortez stared at the Pacific." This author of "To Autumn" and "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" declared "O Attic shape! Fair attitude!" in a poem that addresses the title object as a "foster-child of Silence and slow Time." For 10 points, name this English poet who wrote, "Beauty is truth, truth beauty" in his "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
John Keats
6

92457-)
The preface to this novel proclaims that its moral is "the sins of fathers are visited on theirchildren," and suggests that it was produced by a medieval canon of the church of St. Nicholas. In aderided scene from this novel, a statue reacts to the protagonist demanding a divorce by bleedingfrom its nose. In the climactic scene of this novel, the protagonist grabs a dagger to punish the loverof Theodore, but unwittingly kills his own daughter (*) Isabella instead. Early on in this novel, Isabella'ssickly brother Conrad is crushed by a gigantic falling helmet. For 10 points, name this novel about thevillainous lord Manfred, a work of Horace Walpole often considered the first Gothic novel.
The Castle of Otranto, a Gothic Story
5

92473-)
This poet praised Robert Sydney's home as "not...built to envious show" in a representativecountry house poem. This writer wrote a play in which a disguised justice is put into the stocksthanks to Wasp and Edgeworth, as is a man who preaches without a license named Zeal-of-the-LandBusy. In another play by this author of "To Penshurst," a character briefly disguises himself as Scotothe Italian mountebank; that play features Lady and Sir (*) Politic Would-Be. This author may bebetter known for a play whose title character pretends to be dying, assisted by Mosca, as three men vie toinherit his fortune. For 10 points, identify this Elizabethan-era playwright, the author of BartholomewFayre, The Alchemist, and Volpone.
Ben Jonson
5

92478-)
One novel by an author with this surname centers around the hedonistic lifestyle of a commercial director named John Self. That author with this surname also wrote the novel London Fields. Another author with this surname wrote about a medieval history professor who gives a lecture on "Merrie England," has romantic entanglements with Christine and Margaret, and is eventually fired from his job. The author of Money possesses this surname, shared with his father, the author of Lucky Jim. For 10 points, give this shared surname of the writers Martin and Kingsley.
Amis [Kingsley or Martin]
6

92529-)
This author represented three branches of Christianity as Peter, Martin, and Jack in A Tale of a Tub.One satire by this man facetiously calls for serving Irish babies as food and is called A Modest Proposal.His most famous work depicts the travels of the title captain to various fantastical lands, includingGlubbdubdrib. For 10 points, name this Irish author of Gulliver's Travels.
Jonathan Swift
1

92565-)
In this book, Mr. Wickham goes to Brighton and runs off with Lydia. Another character in this book chooses not to dance with the protagonist or any of her four sisters when he first appears at a ball, though he changes his ways after he is accused of trying to split up Jane and Mr. Bingley. For 10 points, Elizabeth Bennett's relations with Mr. Darcy unfold in what novel by Jane Austen?
Pride and Prejudice
1

92617-)
In this work, Maurice and another character are seen destroying a sand castle. A pig's head on a stickappears to Simon and is revered as the title figure. The holder of the conch is allowed to speak at themeeting within this book. A boulder is used by Roger to kill Piggy and Jack challenges Ralph forleadership of the tribe in, for 10 points, what novel by William Golding about a group of boys stranded onan island?
Lord of the Flies
1

92658-)
In this novel, some mice fabricate a question that a super-computer was attempting to formulate, but itwas destroyed minutes before the end of its 10 million year program. This novel features a whale'sinternal monologue and a Vogon poetry reading. For 10 points, Arthur Dent survives the Earth'sdestruction in what Douglas Adams novel titled after an encyclopedia for space hobos?
The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy
1

92660-)
This man created a wedding guest who is accosted by a man lamenting, "Water, water everywhere,nor any drop to drink" in "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner." He collaborated with William Wordsworthon Lyrical Ballads and wrote a possibly opium-induced poem about a Mongol emperor who decreed "astately pleasure dome" in Xanadu (ZAN-ah-doo). For 10 points, name this British poet of "Kubla Khan."
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
1

92690-)
In a poem by this author, the speaker offers his lover "silver dishes for thy meat" and "buckles of the finest gold." Cornelius and Valdes advertise "magic and the concealed arts" in one of his plays, whose title character summons Helen of Troy. This author created a villain who is assisted by Ithamore, murders his Christian daughter, and is thrown into a cauldron. This author asked a maiden to "come live with me and be my Love" in "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love." For 10 points, name this author of the plays Doctor Faustus and The Jew of Malta.
Christopher Marlowe
6

92719-)
In one episode in this work, a Jew falls backwards down some steps after a jester waves a lump of brawn in his face. In another part of this work, a nobleman from Coningsburgh is hit in the chest with his own battle axe by a man nicknamed "The Black Sluggard," who has just returned from Palestine. A tournament attended by Prince John and the swineherd Gurth occurs in this novel, in which Cedric's protÃ©gÃ© Rowena gasps when the title character's face is revealed. For 10 points, name this historical novel by Sir Walter Scott about a medieval Saxon knight.
Ivanhoe
6

92730-)
This author, in a novel that opens with a group of girls waltzing to an organ grinder's music on Vere Street, created a title character who rejects Tom's marriage proposal to continue her affair with the married Jim Blakeston. This author of Liza of Lambeth wrote a novel in which Blanche commits suicide shortly after marrying the stockbroker-turned-artist Charles Strickland. In another novel by this author, Mildred spurns the advances of the club-footed protagonist, Phillip Carey. For 10 points, name this author of The Moon and Sixpence and Of Human Bondage.
[William] W. Somerset Maugham
6

92745-)
A character in this novel argues about whether it is better to have a fat dog or a thin dog with hissister, Beatrice Lacy. Late in this novel, Frank Crawley reveals that he is prepared to pay off theblackmailer Jack Favell. A flare from a shipwreck stops a suicide attempt in this novel, whoseprotagonist dresses up like a (*) portrait of her husband's ancestor Caroline and thus ruins a ball. Thisnovel's protagonist, who is continuously undermined by the devious housekeeper Mrs. Danvers, eventuallylearns the true fate of its title character, Maxim de Winter's first wife. For 10 points, name this novel thatbegins "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again", the most famous novel by Daphne du Maurier.
Rebecca
5

92771-)
A character in this work expresses a desire to have "remained in some lone Isle" where "the giltChariot never marks the way", and where none taste bohea ("bo-HAY"). In the second section ofthis poem, a character acquires a bag containing "sighs, sobs, and passions, and the war of tongues",which he pours onto a woman who lies in Thalestris's arms. Earlier in this poem, that womanengages in "the sacred Rites of Pride" at her toilet after being awoken by her (*) lapdog Shock. Thispoem, which opens with lines about how a "dire Offence from am'rous causes springs", includes a pair ofsylphs named Umbriel and Ariel. For 10 points, name this mock-heroic poem in which the Baron snips offsome of Belinda's hair, a work of Alexander Pope.
"The Rape of the Lock"
5

92786-)
In one of this man's poems, he wrote that "the tree of man was never quiet then 'twas the Roman,now 'tis I." In a poem about a figure jailed "for the colour of his hair," a reference to homosexuality,this man asked "Oh who is that young sinner with the handcuffs on his wrists?" This man's poetrywas influenced by his unrequited love for Oxford classmate Moses Jackson. This poet wrote that (*)"malt does more than Milton can to justify God's ways to man" in a poem about a character who "eats hisvictuals fast enough." That poem by him appears in a collection with "When I was one-and-twenty" and"To An Athlete Dying Young." For 10 points, identify this English poet, the author of the collection AShropshire Lad.
Alfred Edward Housman
5

92801-)
In two separate but identical passages, this character considers hanging a portrait of Henry WardBeecher across from one of General Gordon. In an early appearance, he writes a list containingentries like "Knows nothing of practical gardening" and "Knowledge of Literature. - Nil". In amemorable exchange, this character is told that he sees, but he does not observe. This characterfrequently alludes to a wound produced by a (*) "Jezail bullet" that pierced him during his service inAfghanistan. This character, who eventually marries Mary Morstan, offers to become his friend'sbiographer in the novel which introduces them, A Study in Scarlet. For 10 points, name this Arthur ConanDoyle character, the assistant of Sherlock Holmes.
Dr. John Watson [accept either underlined portion]
5

92842-)
This character lives in a nation that uses the Blundecral, which records the teachings of the prophet Lustrog, as scripture. This character observes a conflict between High- and Low-Heels, satirizing Tories and Whigs, respectively. This character also sees a conflict between Big- and Little-Endians over how to break a boiled egg in that nation inhabited by people six inches tall. For 10 points, name this character character who visits Blefuscu and Lilliput in a Jonathan Swift novel about his "Travels."
Dr. Lemuel Gulliver [accept either; accept Gulliver's Travels]
6

92863-)
This thinker gave a 20th-century makeover to the religious philosophy of John Bunyan in The Pilgrim's Regress. He distinguished "naturalists" from "supernaturalists" and affirmed the existence of God by way of the Argument from Reason in Miracles. This thinker argued in favor of Christ's divinity using his namesake "trilemma" in his apologetic work Mere Christianity. In another series of books, this author created the Christ-like lion Aslan. For 10 points, name the Christian apologist author The Chronicles of Narnia.
[Clive Staples] C.S. Lewis
6

92865-)
In Naked Lunch, William S. Burroughs writes that his "pen hath its will like" this figure, to whom he compares himself. This figure recalls that "never a saint took pity on my soul in agony." He laments the sight of "the bloody Sun, at noon" in "a hot and copper sky." This man notices water snakes and "blessed them unaware." This man of "long grey beard and glittering eye" tells his story to one of three wedding guests. For 10 points, name this figure, who "laid full low the harmless albatross" in a "Rime" by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
Ancient Mariner [accept Rime of the Ancient Mariner]
6

92872-)
This play inspired a dramatic monologue in which a figure sprawled in mire reflects on the god Setebos. In this play, a servant falls under the influence of a drunken steward and a humpbacked jester named Stephano and Trinculo. A witch named Sycorax used to live in the place where this play occurs. This play's characters include, Ferdinand, a shipwrecked prince; Miranda, the daughter of the overthrown Duke of Milan; and Caliban, Prospero's slave. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play set on a magical island inhabited by the mysterious spirit Ariel.
The Tempest
6

92980-)
This man wrote a 1729 satirical essay suggesting that poor people in Ireland should sell their children asfood. The protagonist in one of his novels goes to the flying island of Laputa. That character also goes to aland of (*) giants called Brobdingnag and a land of very small people called Lilliput. For 10 points, name thisauthor of A Modest Proposal and Gulliver's Travels.
Jonathan Swift
1

93131-)
This author lampooned Hester Lynch Piozzi as Mrs. de Malthe in his satirical pastiche Modern Novel Writing. His other satires include biographies of fictional painters such as Watersouchy, Blunderbussiana, and Aldrovandus Magnus. One of this author's novels includes a scene in which a crowd of people kick a gluttonous Indian like a soccer ball until he falls into a chasm, where the title character sacrifices fifty young boys. This author constructed Fonthill Abbey to house his massive art collection, and wrote a book in which Carathis encourages the wickedness of her son, whose heart begins burning with an eternal flame after accompanying (*) Nouronihar into a subterranean abyss. He is best known for that book, whose main character rules Samarah and journeys to find Iblis. For 10 points, name this British author who fictionalized the life of an Abbasid caliph in his Gothic novel Vathek.
William Beckford
9

93163-)
This poem's second section describes a "fair bark" whose "sails light up / the slip of smooth clear blue betwixt two Isles / of purple shadow". In this poem's final section, the speaker tells of watching the "black wing" of the "last rook" crossing "the mighty Orb's dilated glory" and claims that to its addressee, "no sound is dissonant which tells of life". That final section opens with a "delight [coming] sudden on" the heart of its speaker, who realizes that "Nature ne'er deserts the wise and pure." Addressed to Charles (*) Lamb, this poem is chronologically the third of its author's "conversation poems". It opens with the poet lamenting how his friends "are gone, and here I must remain", because a burned foot caused him to miss a journey across the Quantocks. For 10 points, identify this poem in which Samuel Taylor Coleridge regrets having to hang out alone under a linden.
This Lime-Tree Bower my Prison"
9

93181-)
Alexander Pope's adaptation of this poem begins "In that soft season, when descending show'rs" and changes the first noun in the title to "Temple". This poem describes a man named Colle who carried a windmill under a walnut's shell, as well as a series of metal pillars atop which the speaker sees Homer, Vergil, and Josephus. This poem suddenly breaks off after the speaker sees a man "whom [he] had no business seeing but [who] seemed to be commanding great respect." This poem's narrator finds a (*) brass tablet inscribed with the Aeneid's opening lines and surrounded by paintings of scenes from the poem, emphasizing the story of Dido. The speaker of this poem dreams of finding himself in a glass temple of Venus before Jove sends a gigantic golden eagle to bring him to the title location. For 10 points, name this early poem by Chaucer titled for a location adorned with images of people of renown.
The House of Fame
9

93201-)
A foolish character in this location is unable to answer the riddle, "Who builds stronger than a mason, a shipwright, or a carpenter?" A soldier in this place begs his listeners to pile up dirt until they make "a mountainÂ…to overtop old Pelion," which another character one-ups by asking that the mountain "make Ossa like a wart." The protagonist exits this location immediately after predicting that "the (*) cat will mew but dog will have his day." Earlier in this place, that character argues that Alexander the Great's "noble dust" may have served "to stop a beer-barrel." A scene in this location begins as two clowns argue over whether a woman who drowned herself is damned as a suicide; in that scene set in this place, the protagonist leaps into a pit to confront his dead girlfriend's brother after crying, "It is I, Hamlet the Dane."  For 10 points, name this setting of Act V, Scene I of Hamlet, in which Hamlet cries, "Alas, poor Yorick!" after picking up the jester's skull.
the graveyard from Act V, Scene I of Hamlet [prompt on Elsinore; prompt on Denmark]
9

93206-)
This author repeats the refrain "Not there, not there, my child" in a poem where "beyond the clouds, and beyond the tomb" is revealed to be the location of "The Better Land."  This poet asks the "Crown'd of Rome" "art thou not / Happy in that glorious lot?" in a poem that compares its title character to "She that makes the humblest hearth / Lovely but to one on earth."  This author of "Corinne at the Capitol" asked for "hearts of native proof [to] be rear'd / To guard each hallow'd wall" in a poem that was parodied by adding the word (*) "Stately" to its title by Noel Coward.  In this woman's best-known poem, "the noblest thing that perished" on board a ship "Was that young faithful heart," a boy who calls out to his dead father while standing at his post "on the burning deck;" that poem concerns the explosion of the Orient during the Battle of the Nile. For 10 points, name this 19th-century female poet of "The Homes of England" and "Casabianca."
Felicia Hemans
9

93222-)
This poet wrote, "though temple thou hast noneÂ… Nor virgin-choir to make delicious moan," in a poem about the "latest born and loveliest vision far / Of all Olympus' faded hierarchy!" whose speaker declares, "Yes, I will be thy priest." This author wrote a poem whose speaker may "Never have relish in the faery power / Of unreflecting love," and who stands alone "on the shore / Of the wide world" where he thinks (*) "Till love and fame to nothingness do sink." This poet wrote "Adieu! Adieu! thy plaintive anthem fades" in a poem describing a "light winged Dryad of the trees," and this author of "Ode to Psyche" reflected on the prospect of never again seeing Fanny Brawne in his sonnet, "When I have Fears That I May Cease to Be." For 10 points, name this author who wrote, "Do I wake or sleep?" in his "Ode to a Nightingale."
John Keats
7

93423-)
The speaker of this poem predicts that a future observer will praise his eyes, that "made such mirrors, and such spies, that they did all to you epitomize." It argues that "soldiers find wars, and lawyers find out still litigious men" regardless of the speaker. This poem's claim that "the phoenix riddle hath more wit by us" was explained in "The Language of Paradox," an essay that closely examines it. This poem's speaker promises that if his legend is "unfit for tombs," he'll "build in (*) sonnets pretty rooms," and tells an addressee to contemplate "the king's real, or his stamped face" rather than interrupt him. Cleanth Brooks took the title of The Well-Wrought Urn from this poem, which begins with the line, "For God's sake hold your tongue, and let me love." For 10 points, name this John Donne poem titled after a process necessary for sainthood.
"The Canonization"
9

93440-)
One section of this poem imagines that men with preternatural senses of smell and hearing would "die of a rose in aromatic pain" or wish they could only hear "the whispering Zephyr, and the purling rill." This poem discounts the importance of renown by calling Bacon the "wisest, brightest, meanest of mankind" and asserting that Cromwell is "damned to everlasting fame." This poem praises a "poor Indian" whose "faithful dog" will guide him to a heaven where "No Fiends torment, no Christians thirst for gold!" This poem argues that "all are but (*) parts in one stupendous whole" in advising its subject not to break a "vast chain of being, which from God began." This poem advises its addressee, Lord Bolingbroke, to "know thyself, presume not God to scan," and is the source of the line "hope springs eternal in the human breast." For 10 points, name this poem in four epistles, written to "vindicate the ways of God to man" by Alexander Pope.
"An Essay on Man"
9

93470-)
When this character plays the pianoforte in front of her future husband, he hears her "without raptures" and only pays her "the compliment of attention." Later, this character accepts a gift of a horse from Somersetshire that has been specially bred to hold a woman. She is put at ease by Mrs. Jennings's comments about the bad weather since they make her believe that her beloved has been stuck in the rain. This woman becomes interested in a man living at Allenham, although he (*) breaks her heart by getting engaged to Miss Grey. While taking a walk in the rain with her sister Margaret, this character injures her ankle and is brought home by a man to whom she later gives a lock of her hair, Mr. Willoughby. She eventually marries the thirty-five year old Colonel Brandon. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen character that represents "sensibility" in contrast to her sister Elinor's "sense."
Marianne Dashwood [or Marianne Dashwood; prompt on Dashwood]
9

93481-)
The protagonist of this novel is rescued from the unwanted courtship of Mr. Wilmot by another character who takes her to see a Van Dyck painting. The servant Benson aids the main character after her spouse orders the disposal of her painting supplies. Ralph Hattersley reforms himself by this novel's end and becomes a renowned horse breeder and a loving husband to Millicent. Early in this work, the protagonist is courted by a man of at least forty that she refers to as "Bore'em." That protagonist puts tartar-emetic in her son's wine in order to condition that character to dislike alcohol and avoid being like his father. This novel begins as a letter to (*) Jack Halford, and the writer of that letter, Gilbert Markham, mistakenly believed that his love interest married Mr. Hargrave, but discovers that the protagonist's brother Lawrence had married Esther Hargrave. For 10 points, name this novel in which Helen Graham is the titular denizen of the titular place, a work of Anne BrontÃ«.
The Tenant of Wildfell Hall
9

93495-)
In one work by this man, the title figure has eternal life but not youth, and realizes "the Gods themselves cannot recall their gifts." The title figure of another work by this author of "Tithonus" gathers his former crewmates, "To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." That poem is "Ulysses," one of this Victorian poet's dramatic monologues. In another poem, this man described "the six hundred" riding "into the Valley of Death" and claimed "Their's not to reason why, / Their's but to do and die." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Charge of the Light Brigade." 
Lord Tennyson [or Alfred Tennyson; or Alfred, Lord Tennyson]
6

93503-)
A work by this writer tells of Littlewit's friends Quarlous and Winwife, who try to woo Dame Purecraft. He wrote a poem that begins, "Drink to me only with thine eyes." This author of "To Celia" wrote a play in which Corbaccio is convinced to disown Bonario by the protagonist's assistant Mosca. In another play by this author, Face and Subtle become entangled in a plan to fleece Sir Epicure Mammon by pretending to turn metal into gold. For 10 points, name this English dramatist who wrote Bartholomew Fair, The Alchemist, and Volpone.
Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson] 
6

93519-)
A poem of this type by Delmore Schwartz warns that "Like Moliere's bourgeois gentleman, you may discover you have been speaking blank verse all your life." One of these poems jokes about "peace and plenty, bed and board that chance employment can afford" and was written by Cecil Day-Lewis. Another of these poems says that others may "freeze with angling reeds / and cut their legs with shells and weeds," inviting the addressee instead to swim naked in the river. The most famous poem of this type, which notes that "Philomel becometh dumb" and (*) "time drives flocks from field to fold," begins with the line "If all the world and love were young." John Donne's "The Bait" is one of these poems, the most famous of which was written by Sir Walter Raleigh. For 10 points, name this type of poem that often begins with the line, "Come live with me and be my love" in reference to a Christopher Marlowe poem.
responses to "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" [or parodies of "The Passionate Shepherd to his Love"]
9

93562-)
In one novel, this character dies on a trip to England that he undertakes with Susan Barton. In another novel, hehelps to fight off a group of wolves after he discovers that his Brazilian plantation has made him wealthy. In thatnovel, a Portuguese captain rescues this man and his slave Xury from Moorish pirates. This character, an old man inJ.M. Coetzee's Foe, appears in another novel in which he rescues a man from cannibals, teaches him English, andnames him Friday. For 10 points, name this shipwrecked sailor, the title character of a novel by Daniel Defoe.
Robinson Crusoe [accept either]
6

93588-)
This man wrote a story in which George Fotheringay accidentally sends Constable Winch toHades. This author of "The Man Who Could Work Miracles" and The Outline of History wrote ofGeorge Ponderevo's attempts to market his uncle Edward's miracle cure in another novel. One of hisnovels opens at the Coach and Horses Inn and sees the protagonist launch a "reign of terror" fromthe apartment of Dr. Kemp. This author of (*) Tono-Bungay created a man who restocks his supply ofmatches in a ruined museum and rescues Weena from drowning. One of his novels features the societies ofthe Eloi and the Morlocks, while in another of his novels, Griffin changes his refractive index. For 10points, name this author of The Time Machine and The Invisible Man.
Herbert George Wells
5

93604-)
In this novel, a character repeatedly claims "I will work harder" as he is constructing a windmill. In this work,there is only one casualty when Mr. Pilkington's and Mr. Frederick's men are led by Mr. Jones in the Battle of theCowshed. Minimus writes the national anthem of this novel's title location to replace the song taught by Old Major.Among Squealer's rules in this novel is "whatever goes upon two legs is an enemy." For 10 points, Napoleon andSnowball sell Boxer to a glue factory in what George Orwell novel, many characters in which are pigs and horses?
Animal Farm
6

93624-)
This writer described himself and other poets as "the unacknowledged legislators of the world" in an essay. Inone of his poems, he wrote, "If Winter Comes, can Spring be far behind?" This author of the essay "A Defence ofPoetry" wrote the line "hail to thee, blithe spirit." He described "two vast and trunkless legs of stone" in a poemthat proclaims, "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet whowrote "Ode to the West Wind," "To a Skylark," and the sonnet "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
6

93643-)
After this man learns of his wife's death, he laments, "She should have died hereafter; there would have been atime for such a word." This character is informed of Fleance's escape immediately prior to a banquet where he seesthe ghost of Fleance's father. This character's wife calls upon spirits to "come, unsex me here," and this character istold not to fear any man "till Birnam wood do come to Dunsinane." For 10 points, name this Shakespeare characterwhose fortune is prophesied by the Witches and who kills Duncan before he is killed by Macduff.
Macbeth
6

93658-)
A character in this play observes, "It is not love that loves to anger love," after soliloquizing about how "disturbed thoughts drives me from company and dries my marrow with their watchfulness." A painter in this play possesses the scientifically dubious ability to create poisoned paintings that kill anyone who looks at them. In a later scene in this play, a murder is averted by the timely appearance of Mike Cheyne's Elizabethan avatar, Lord Cheyne. In this play, the redistribution of church property during the reign of Edward VI results in Greene losing his land to the title character, after which he hires the comically inept murderers Black Will and Shakebag. While playing a game of backgammon with the adulterer Mosby, the title character of this play is stabbed repeatedly by a group of conspirators led by his wife Alice. For 10 points, name this watershed domestic tragedy written by an (*) anonymous playwright that depicts the real-life murder of the title gentleman.
Arden of Faversham
9

93706-)
In one of this author's novels, Ronny Heslop breaks up Cyril Fielding's tea party. One of his title characters seeksthe assistance of the hypnotist Lasker Jones to cure his homosexuality. In another novel by this author, Lucy meetsGeorge in Italy and exchanges accommodations with him, allowing her to look onto the river Arno. This author ofMaurice created Dr. Aziz, who is accused of assaulting the British woman Adela Quested in the Marabar Caves, inanother novel. For 10 points, name this British novelist who wrote A Room with a View and A Passage to India.
E.M. Forster [or Edward Morgan Forster]
6

93735-)
This speech mentions "the thousand natural shocks that flesh is heir to," which can be ended "by a sleep." Itsspeaker asks what dreams may come in the "sleep of death" when "we have shuffled off this mortal coil." It notesthat "conscience does make cowards of us all," and asks "whether 'tis nobler in the mind to suffer...or to take Armsagainst a sea of troubles." The opening phrase of this speech contemplates suicide after Ophelia's apparent rejectionof the speaker. For 10 points, name this soliloquy by Hamlet that opens with a question about existence.
"to be, or not to be" soliloquy [prompt on answers mentioning Hamlet, such as Hamlet's speech]
6

93754-)
In one work by this poet, he claims "my genial spirits fail" due to "A grief without a pang, void, dark, anddrear." His eight "conversation poems" include "This Lime-Tree Bower My Prison" and "The Eolian Harp." Thispoet claims he "drunk the milk of Paradise" after seeing "a damsel with a dulcimer" along the river Alph in a poemdescribing "a stately pleasure-dome." He wrote of a sailor who stops a wedding guest about shooting an albatross.For 10 points, name this British poet of "Kubla Khan" and "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner."
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
6

93791-)
In book one of this work, the word Pandemonium is first used to describe Satan's palace. Satan eventually tricks Uriel into letting him escape, and he makes his way to earth to tempt mankind. The archangel Michael leads mankind out of the (*) garden in, for 10 points, what John Milton epic poem that chronicles the fall of Adam and Eve?
Paradise Lost
1

93813-)
One character in this play states, "Life's but a walking shadow, a poor player." Minor characters in this play include the thanes Ross and Lennox. The title character begins this play as the Thane of Glamis ["glahmz"]. (*)) Banquo and Fleance also appear in, for 10 points, what play by Shakespeare about a Scottish lord?
Macbeth
1

93832-)
He wrote that "This is the way the world ends/Not with a bang but a whimper" in his poem "The Hollow Men." He also wrote the collection "Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats." The phrase "the women come and go/Talking of Michelangelo" appears in his "The (*) Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock." His most famous work states that "April is the cruelest month." For 10 points, name this poet of "The Waste Land."
T(homas) S(tearns) Eliot
1

93912-)
This poet described a figure who once sat with his lover "On a red gold throne in the heart of the sea" in a poem that repeatedly includes the question "Children dear, was it yesterday?" The speaker of one of this man's poems recalls seeing a girl and some mowers on a skiff journey through Wytham flats before lamenting "They are all gone, and thou art gone as well!" A poem by this man is based on a tale from Joseph Glanvill and tells of a man who (*) "roam'd the world with that wild brotherhood" after dropping out of Oxford to pursue divine knowledge. This man described a figure who "Time, not Corydon, hath conquered" in an elegy for his friend Arthur Hugh Clough and wrote a poem set "where ignorant armies clash by night." For 10 points, name this British poet of "The Scholar Gipsy," "Thyrsis," and "Dover Beach."
Matthew Arnold
7

93922-)
One story in this work tells of the rooster Chauntecleer outsmarting a fox. Another story is about threerogues killing each other under an oak tree in a quest to find Death. In another story, a knight is forced tofind out what women most desire; that story is told by the Wife of Bath. (*) Pilgrims on their way to visit anEnglish cathedral city swap stories in, for 10 points, what collection by Geoffrey Chaucer?
The Canterbury Tales
1

93956-)
In this play, one character sends Reynoldo to spy on his son. The title character of this play mourns a "fellow of infinite jest," Yorick, in this play's "graveyard scene." The protagonist tells one character to "get thee to a nunnery" before he kills her father, (*) Polonius. That character later drowns and is named Ophelia. One famous scene from this play contains the line "To be or not to be." For 10 points, name this Shakespeare tragedy about the title Prince of Denmark.
Hamlet
1

93965-)
The title character of this work is hired on as a burglar after unknowingly advertising for a job through a mark on his door. In this work, an attempt is made to reclaim family treasure and avenge the deaths of the villagers of Dale by a group of (*) dwarves. The dwarves are aided by a wizard named Gandalf, and a less-obviously powerful character named Bilbo. For 10 points, name this novel written by J.R.R. Tolkien.
The Hobbit
1

93980-)
Among this poet's famous lines are "Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all" and "Theirs not to reason why, / Theirs but to do and die". In addition to "In Memoriam A.H.H.," this Poet Laureate under Queen Victoria also wrote "The Lady of Shalott." (*) For 10 points, what 19th-century poet wrote "The Charge of the Light Brigade"?.
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
1

94010-)
One of this author's protagonists breaks his word by refusing to take cyanide when a dice comes up as six and is told the story of a blind madman named Henrik Nygaard. One novel by this author ends with Rebecca Hocknell giving birth to Shaker founder Ann Lee and centers on the disappearance of "Mr. Bartholomew." In another of his novels, an amnesiac novelist named Miles Green has sex with the muse Erato in his hospital bed. This author created Maurice Conchis, an aristocrat who draws (*) Nicholas Urfe into a "godgame" on the island of Phraxos. In another work by this author of Mantissa and A Maggot, an amateur paleontologist named Charles Smithson falls in love with the title character, Sarah Woodruff. For 10 points, name this postmodernist British author of The Magus and The French Lieutenant's Woman.
John Fowles
7

94026-)
The speaker of this poem describes a concept that is "so much refined" and "inter-assured of mind." This poem claims that a certain "breach" is in fact an "expansion, like gold to aery thinness beat." In this poem, the narrator uses the parenthetical "whose soul is sense" to describe the love of "Dull sublunary lovers." This poem references astronomical theories with phrases like "Moving of th' earth" and (*) "trepidation of the spheres" and asserts that "Twere profanation of our love / To tell the laity our joy." The first stanza of this poem uses the analogy "as virtuous men pass mildly away," and the speaker states "thy firmness makes my circle just" while comparing himself and his lover to arms of a drafting compass. For 10 points, name this poem that asks "So let us melt, and make no noise" a work of John Donne about parting lovers.
"A Valediction Forbidding Mourning"
7

94039-)
One character in this novel flips a coin directly into the slot of a pinball machine. Another character in this work repeats the phrase "Can't say fairer than that" while having an affair with the music teacher Poppy Burt-Jones. That character convinces the owner of O'Connell's pub to hang up a portrait of his great-grandfather Mangal Pandey, the instigator of the Sepoy Mutiny. This novel features an (*) Islamic fundamentalist organization with the acronym KEVIN and ends with the escape of the biologist Marcus Chalfen's genetically-modified FutureMouse. This work prompted an essay about the genre of "hysterical realism" by James Wood, and opens with the attempted suicide of Archibald Jones, who later marries the former Jehovah's Witness Clara Bowden. For 10 points, name this debut novel by Zadie Smith.
White Teeth
7

94046-)
One character in this novel dreams that he is eating at a cafe table in a cathedral while the congregation taps in Morse code. The protagonist of this novel fights a starving dog for a bone in a deserted house before visiting the home of Mr. Lehr. At the end of this novel, a boy who had earlier mocked the story of a child martyr spits at a passing policeman and lets a "tall pale thin man" into his house. In this novel, the main character briefly lives in the barn of Coral (*) Fellows and struggles to win the affection of his impish daughter Brigida. This novel opens with the English dentist Mr. Tench walking to a wharf, and the protagonist is later tricked into following the yellow-toothed mestizo to a cave where he is arrested by the Lieutenant. For 10 points, name this novel in which the Whiskey Priest is hunted down in Mexico, a work of Graham Greene.
The Power and the Glory
7

94073-)
In this novel, the protagonist's mother keeps a volume called "Compleat Fortune-Teller" in her outhouse. A blind woman in this novel is fond of Strut and Phena, two chickens on her fowl farm. One family in this novel has allegedly been haunted by a ghostly coach after a sixteenth century member kidnapped and murdered a woman in it, and the protagonist is disturbed when a rooster crows in the afternoon. Retty Priddle tries to drown herself over one man in this novel who is also loved by (*) Marian and Izz Huett. While working as a dairymaid at Talbothays dairy, one character meets a man who eventually leaves her and moves to Brazil to start a farm. The protagonist of this novel has an illegitimate child named Sorrow and is arrested at Stonehenge after stabbing her rapist, Alec. For 10 points, name this work about the wife of Angel Clare, a novel by Thomas Hardy.
Tess of the d'Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented
7

94099-)
A character in this story is described as having "married for love" which "turned to dust," whose heart was "a hard little place that could feel no love." That character proclaims that the rich lose their money, while those who are lucky have a constant supply. In this story, the protagonist's mother receives a thousand pounds a year on her birthday, but the protagonist gives her the lump sum of five thousand pounds when she demands to have it. In this story, the protagonist's house constantly echoes with unspoken cries of (*) "There must be more money!" The protagonist of this story dies of brain fever after falling to the ground and exclaiming the name "Malabar!", from which he wins seventy thousand pounds on a fourteen-to-one bet. For 10 points, name this story, in which Paul obtains the victors of derbys from the titular toy, a work of D.H. Lawrence.
"The Rocking-Horse Winner"
7

94103-)
A posthumous publication of his poems was arranged by the poet laureate, Robert Bridges. The first section of Paul Mariani's biography of this man is titled "We Are So Grafted on His Wood" and comes from the last line of this man's poem about the Eucharist, "Barnfloor and Winepress." The speaker of one of his sonnets observes, "Generations have trod, have trod, have trod; / And all is seared with trade." One of his poems describes an object that "drove in the dark to leeward, / She struckÂ—not a reef or rock / But the combs of a smother of sand" and is dedicated to "the happy memory of five (*) Franciscan Nuns exiles by the Falk Laws." In another of his poems, the subject "rung upon the rein of a wimpling wing / In his ecstasy" and is described as a "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon." For 10 points, name this poet fond of sprung rhythm, who wrote "The Wreck of the Deutschland" and "The Windhover."
Gerard Manley Hopkins
7

94134-)
When three men drunkenly spill this character's wine, this character claims that they are wasting away his health. The narrator first encounters this character tossing around a green ball with several boys and peeing into a silver container. This character encourages his dog Scylax to fight the dog of a young boy, resulting in a lamp being broken and hot oil being flung on several people. He tells a story about a man from Cappadocia who is beaten by witches and turned into straw after Niceros relates an episode in which his friend (*) urinated in a circle around his clothes and turned into a wolf. This character commissions Habinnas to create a detailed tomb for him during an elaborate event in which he serves dishes based on the signs of the zodiac. For 10 points, name this husband of Fortunata, a character that hosts a notable feast in the Satyricon.
Trimalchio
7

94153-)
In one poem by this author, a question "brings the priest and the doctor / in their long coats / running over the fields." This author wrote that "the women shared the secret like a happy funeral" and described a "sense of falling, like an arrow-shower sent out of sight" in one poem. In one of his poems, "such plainness of the pre-baroque hardly involves the eye," while another states that (*) "man hands on misery to man." This poet, who described travelling on a "three-quarters-empty train" and watching celebrations at the stations in one poem ended another by stating "What will survive of us is love." One poem of this author warns that "they fill you with the faults they had / And add some extra, just for you." For 10 points, name this poet of "Whitsun Weddings" and "An Arundel Tomb" who wrote "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in "This Be The Verse."
Philip Larkin
7

94169-)
This character is advised that it is "no mean happiness to be seated in the mean" by her servant when lamenting her inability to find a husband. At the end of the play she appears in, this character returns a ring to a man who had earlier confessed his love for her "upon a rack." A prince from Morocco is barred from marrying this character after opening a chest which reveals the message "All that (*) glisters is not gold." A speech given by this character describes a trait with the power to make "the throned monarch better than his crown" and opens "The quality of mercy is not strained." She disguises herself as a judge in order to settle a dispute between Shylock and Antonio involving a loan given to Bassanio, who intends to woo her. For 10 points, name this resident of Belmont, an heiress from Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice.
Portia
7

94197-)
One character in this novel is frustrated when his joke comparing gypsies to crows is not understood. This novel ends with a crowd cheering as the pier lights turn off, and the protagonist of this novel makes several clumsy efforts to educate the eighteen-year-old Reginald Cardinal about the "birds and the bees." At a gathering in this novel where Harry Smith preaches on the dignity of the common man, (*) Dr. Carlisle realizes one character is lying about his profession. The protagonist once worked for a man who fired his Jewish maids and often entertained Joachim von Ribbentrop, and he tries to improve his "bantering" skills while interacting with his new American boss, Faraday. For 10 points, name this novel centered on a journey to visit Ms. Kenton, a work about the butler Stevens by Kazuo Ishiguro.
The Remains of the Day
7

94222-)
This character gets into a fight after Noah Claypole insults his mother. He accompanies a man who murders Nancy after Monks obtains this character's mother's golden locket. This character is mistakenly apprehended for stealing a handkerchief, but is later taken in by its owner, Mr. Brownlow. After escaping Mr. Sowerberry's workhouse, this character is brought to Fagin's gang by the Artful Dodger. For 10 points, name this Charles Dickens orphan who says "please sir, I want some more" to request more gruel.
Oliver Twist [accept either underlined part]
6

94244-)
One of this man's works is narrated by William Talbot and describes the injustices perpetrated by Captain Anderson aboard a man-of-war. The destruction of the Wildebeest leaves the title character alone on a rocky Atlantic island in this author's Pincher Martin. This author of Rites of Passage described two twins collectively known as Samneric in his most famous novel. In that work by this author, Ralph and Jack vie for control over a group of boys stranded on an island. For 10 points, name this British author of Lord of the Flies.
[Sir] William [Gerald] Golding
6

94272-)
This work ends with Michael leading two people out of the title location, after they have been successfully deceived by the character who Percy Shelley believed to be the actual protagonist of this work. In this work, Belial advocates "ignoble ease and peaceful sloth" and another character offers to undertake a voyage to discover a new type of creature. Book 2 of this work begins with a debate in the city of Pandemonium. For 10 points, name this work notable for its sympathetic portrayal of Satan, an epic poem by John Milton about the fall of Adam and Eve.
Paradise Lost
6

94311-)
This work's epigraph tells of the Sibyl's desire to die, and is taken from the Satyricon. "The river sweats oil and tar" according to the song of the three Thames-maidens in this work. Scenes in its first section include Marie and her cousin sledding down a mountain, and a "wicked pack" of tarot cards read by Madame Sosostris. After quoting the Sanskrit for "Give, sympathise, control" in "What the Thunder Said," this work ends like an Upanishad with the line "Shantih shantih shantih." For 10 points, name this T.S. Eliot poem that begins "April is the cruellest month."
The Waste Land
6

94318-)
In one of this man's works, The King of Navarre and his three friends vow to focus on their studies instead of on women. Balthasar sings "Hey nonny, nonny" for Don Pedro, and Borachio makes Claudio believe that Hero is unfaithful to him in a work by this author, who created the slow-witted Sir Andrew Aguecheek in a play in which Olivia falls in love with Cesario, who is really Viola in disguise. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan playwright of Love's Labour's Lost, Much Ado about Nothing, and Twelfth Night.
William Shakespeare
6

94348-)
An anonymous writer called "Another Lady" completed this author's novel about Charlotte Heywood, Sanditon. In another work by this author, John unsuccessfully tries to prevent Henry Tilney from marrying Catherine Morland. Elinor and Marianne Dashwood feature in another novel by this author, who wrote a novel in which Lydia marries George Wickham and Elizabeth Bennet falls in love with Fitzwilliam Darcy. For 10 points, name this author of Northanger Abbey, Sense and Sensibility, and Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen
6

94355-)
One character in this novel learns that the De Laceys were exiled after Safie's father betrayed Felix. Justine is convicted of murdering William after a locket is found in her dress in this novel, which opens in the form of a letter between Captain Walton and his sister. The title character of this novel is arrested for the murder of Henry Clerval after refusing to fulfill another character's request to create him a mate. On its protagonist's wedding night, his wife Elizabeth is murdered by the monster he created. For 10 points, name this Gothic novel by Mary Shelley.
Frankenstein
6

94384-)
The speaker of one of this man's poems hopes that he will see his Pilot "face to face." In another of this author's poems, the title speaker wishes to travel the world and states that although he and his companions are old, they are "strong in will / to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." Another of his poems is about "the six hundred" who rode "into the valley of Death" during the Battle of Balaclava. For 10 points, name this author of "Crossing the Bar," "Ulysses," and "The Charge of the Light Brigade."
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
6

94412-)
In one speech, this character claims that "all our yesterdays" have led to a "dusty death" and compares life to a "brief candle." This character's nefarious actions cause another man to lament the loss of "all my pretty ones." This character cries "tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow" upon the death of his wife. He dies at the hands of a man who was "from his mother's womb untimely ripp'd," fulfilling the prophecy that "none of woman born" could harm this man. For 10 points, name this tragic character killed by Macduff in a Shakespeare play.
Macbeth
6

94443-)
This character's sister died after repeatedly crying "My husband, my father, and my brother!", counting to twelve, and then saying, "Hush!" After returning from a parade, this character reprimands her husband while tying knots in her handkerchief storing the contents of a bowl of money. In one scene, this character pins a rose in her headdress as a warning signal when she is visited by John Barsad. This character is often accompanied by a shrill woman nicknamed (*) The Vengeance, who bewails her failure to appear at a certain event. This woman is married to a wine shop owner named Ernest. This character is killed when her pistol goes off as she grapples with Miss Pross after intruding into the lodging of Lucie Manette. For 10 points, name this woman whose knitting registers those condemned to die by the guillotine during the French Revolution in Charles Dickens's A Tale of Two Cities.
Madame Defarge [or Therese Defarge; prompt on Defarge]
9

94460-)
At the end of this novel, the protagonist lives in a two-room cottage with Tekla and is visited by the remorseful people who beat him within an inch of his life. Its protagonist confesses to misdeeds near the end of this novel, leading to his beating at the hands of Nikita and his loss of hearing, which causes him to stumble in front of a moving tram. The frame narrator of this novel is an English professor of languages in Geneva who receives the protagonist's records and tutors his love interest, Nathalie, who is the brother of a revolutionary executed for assassinating a (*) Russian politician. This novel's protagonist is expelled from Russia as a spy for the tsarists but confesses to revolutionaries that he had betrayed revolutionary assassin Victor Haldin. For 10 points, name this novel about the student Razumov, written by Joseph Conrad, whose title reflects the fact that the English narrator is observing Russians from the East.
Under Western Eyes
9

94497-)
This character insults Roger when he brings up that Roger has recooked "many a Jack of Dover." When a character calls out this character on his swearing, this character responds by saying, "I smell a Lollard in the wind." This character exclaims, "The monk put in the fellow's hood an ape!" after hearing about a monk who slept with his host's wife.  This character sides with a man who interrupts Don Peter, asking that he start talking about hunting instead of discussing the (*) downfalls of great figures. This character claims that a story about how Sir Olifaunt stopped a search for an elf-queen is not worth a turd, which leads another character to describe a debate between Dame Prudence and her husband, Melibee. This character organizes a drawing of cuts after getting a group to agree to pay for a journey if they do not abide by his rules. For 10 points, name this owner of the Tabard Inn who organizes the storytelling contest in The Canterbury Tales.
Host [or Harry; or Harry Bailey]
9

94516-)
One work by this author compares the Christian idea of original sin with a story from the Arabian Nights of a princess who let a genie escape by failing to eat one seed of a pomegranate. In another of his works,  the bas-relief of a Dying Trumpeter comes to life and freezes the narrator in time to prevent him, riding through the graveyard of Campo Santo, from crashing into a young girl.  This author wrote about dreams in which Mater Lachrymarum, Mater Suspiriorum, and Mater Tenebrarum appeared before him along with the Roman goddess of childbirth. A so-called "Dream-Fugue" concludes one of his writings, which opens by extolling "The (*) Glory of Motion."  This author of "Levana and Our Ladies of Sorrow" satirically compared John Williams to "Michelangelo in painting" in a piece purporting to be a "found" lecture given at an analogue to the Hellfire Club. For 10 points, name this essayist of Suspiria De Profundis, "The English Mail-Coach", and "On Murder Considered as One of the Fine Arts," a friend of Samuel Taylor Coleridge who wrote Confessions of an English Opium Eater.
Thomas Penson de Quincey
9

94588-)
This work's second epilogue was written by Joseph Craddock of Gumley; its first epilogue was written by the author and is to be spoken by Mrs. Bulkely. It begins with a section written by David Garrick, in which Mr. Woodward appears with a handkerchief and cries about the death of the Comic Muse. A subplot concerns the retrieval of the jewels of (*) Constance, who wishes to marry Hastings. After Tony Lumpkin takes her to an alehouse, the female lead of this play performs the title action by disguising herself as a barmaid. For 10 points, name this comedy about Kate Hardcastle's tricks to woo Sir Charles Marlow, a work of Oliver Goldsmith.
She Stoops to Conquer
7

94633-)
In one of this author's stories, the middle-aged Mr. Huddle and his sister are encouraged to massacre the Jews to escape their boredom. This author incorporated the death of his mother, who was trampled by a cow, into a novel where Comus is "exiled" to Africa. His second and final novel imagines life in London under Wilhelm II, who invaded England. This author of "The Unrest-Cure," (*) The Unbearable Bassington and When William Came wrote about Mrs. De Ropp, a woman who watches over Conradin and the title polecat-ferret. The line "Romance at short notice was her speciality" ends a different work by this man, in which Vera scares Framton Nuttal by telling a story about the title object. For 10 points, name this British master of short stories, who wrote "Sredni Vashtar" and "The Open Window."
Hector Hugh Munro or Saki
7

94661-)
A character in this play declares to his companions that their life "finds tongues in trees, books in the running brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything." After deciding to go hunting, that character mourns the fate of the deer who are being slaughtered despite being native to their region. In this play, Oliver's hatred for his younger brother only grows when the younger brother ends up defeating the champion (*) Charles in a wrestling match. That younger brother writes a series of love poems to the central character and hangs them on trees. The fool Touchstone and Audrey are one of the four couples to get married at the end of this play set in the Forest of Arden. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play which features characters like Orlando and the disguised Rosalind.
As You Like It
7

94696-)
In his book The Statesman's Manual, this writer stated that Nimrod and Napoleon represented the "Satanic Hero." A different book by this literary critic introduced the ideas of Schelling's Romanticism to the English public, coining the term "suspension of disbelief." The title object of one of his poems is "placed length-ways in the clasping casement" and is caressed by a "desultory breeze." That poem, which also describes "vain Philosophy's aye-babbling spring" is addressed to (*) "My pensive Sara." This author of Biographia Literaria wrote about how "they are gone, and here must I remain" in a poem that describes how "this lime-tree bower" is the author's prison. For 10 points, name this author of "Conversation Poems," such as "The Aeolian Harp," who also wrote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
7

94735-)
Near the end of this novel, the protagonist sings Schubert's "Der Lindenbaum" while on a field at Flanders. That man earlier dreamed of witches tearing up children in a Doric temple on an Arcadian landscape after being caught in a snowstorm. One character in this novel is a former student of the real-life poet Giosue Carducci and satirically refers to another as "Rhadamanthys." The protagonist participates in a sÃ©ance with Dr. Krokowski to speak with his cousin and falls in love with (*) Clavdia Chauchat. This novel chronicles the debates between Ludovico Settembrini and Leo Naphta, and it begins with the protagonist joining his cousin Joachim Ziemssen in the town of Davos. For 10 points, name this novel in which Hans Castorp spends seven years in a Swiss sanatorium, by Thomas Mann.
The Magic Mountain [or Der Zauberberg]
7

94752-)
Robert Graves restored this novel and dubbed it the "real" version. Late in this work, the valet Littimer proves to be a model prisoner after he is jailed for embezzlement. The prison keeper in this book employed the one-legged Mr. Tungay. A rescue attempt during a storm at Yarmouth causes the death of two characters in the novel, causing the protagonist to go to (*) Switzerland. This novel's title character is sent to the Salem House after biting Edward Murdstone shortly after befriending James Steerforth. In this novel, Uriah Heep blackmails his way into a law partnership with Mr. Wickfield, and Heep tries to guilt Agnes Wickfield into marrying him. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical novel by Charles Dickens.
David Copperfield
7

94770-)
One poem by this author asks why Hyde was exiled and why Villiers fell to the assassin's blade after extensively portraying Cardinal Wolsey. That poem by this author, which begins "Let Observation, with extensive view, survey mankind, from China to Peru" was written in imitation of Juvenal's 10th satire. After his mother died, he wrote a short novel in which the poet Imlac, Pekuah, and Nekiyah help a prince of (*) Abyssinia escape the Happy Valley to see the world. This man started The Rambler and The Idler to promote his critical views, in addition to writing "The Vanity of Human Wishes" and Rasselas. For 10 points, name this English author of A Dictionary of the English Language, the subject of a fawning biography by James Boswell.
Samuel Johnson
7

94777-)
In one appearance, a man tries to dissipate this entity by repeatedly mending the Broken Sword. This location is introduced after a knight witnesses a procession featuring a bleeding lance while on his way to visit his mother. In that story, this location first appears after a knight awakens in a castle that is completely empty, which causes a maiden to chastise him for not asking an important question. In the Post-Vulgate Cycle, this location is (*) created after Balin gives the Dolorous Stroke to a man identified with Anfortas. This term generally describes a Celtic belief that the wound of the Fisher King would induce his kingdom to suffer from barrenness. For 10 points, name this desolate location from Arthurian legend that gives its title to a T.S. Eliot poem.
The Wasteland (prompt on the "Grail Kingdom")
7

94797-)
In this novel, a corporal is never able to finish telling his story about the king of Bohemia and his seven castles. This book satirizes Don Quixote with its tale of a scholar named Hafen Slawkenbergius, who wrote a treatise on noses. Widow Wadman pursues one of its characters who recreates battles on his bowling green as a part of his "hobby-horse." At birth, the title character has his nose flattened by the incompetent Dr. Slop. This novel's protagonist narrates Books 1 and 2 as a homunculus in his mother's womb. Later, the main character is circumcised by a falling window while urinating. This novel of digressions features Parson Yorick, who also appears in its author's A Sentimental Journey. For 10 points, name this novel by Laurence Sterne.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy [Make sure they say "Tristram," not "Tristan."]
7

94800-)
In one novel by this author, Kitty accompanies her husband Walter Fane to a remote area where a cholera epidemic has been killing the Chinese people. NoÃ«l Coward dubbed this author "the lizard of Oz." This author satirized Hugh Walpole as the literary hack Alroy Kear in his novel in which Alroy tries to write a biography of (*) Edward Driffield. This author of The Painted Veil included his recurring character of William Ashenden in his book Cakes and Ale. In an autobiographical work, the club-footed protagonist falls in love with the waitress Mildred Rodgers. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about himself as Philip Carey in Of Human Bondage.
William Somerset Maugham 
7

94817-)
One of this author's characters transforms gold into smoke, water into fabric, and multiplies fishes as passengers board a pirate ship. Another person created by this author saves himself from an emperor's elephant by claiming descent from Nina Argalia and "Lady Black Eyes." He created the writer of "assassination poems," a guy who served the Grandee of Jahilia, (*) Baal. A dream sequence described by this author features Ayesha leading a group of men into the Arabian Sea, where they drown. Another of his characters murders Sisodia and Allie Cone. This author of The Enchantress of Florence wrote about a man who dreams about Mahound after falling out of an exploding airplane with Saladin Chamcha. For 10 points, name this author of The Satanic Verses and Midnight's Children.
Salman Rushdie
7

94834-)
This work's fifth stanza paraphrases Horace by stating "Brave men were living before Agamemnon." 20 stanzas of this poem praise the exploits of American folk hero Daniel Boone, turning him into a legend. It begins "I want a hero: an uncommon want." The title character of this poem, which is mockingly dedicated to Robert Southey, joins the Russian army and befriends (*) Catherine the Great after the pirate Lambro enchains him and sells him to a sultana in Constantinople. According to its author, this poem in ottava rima was written from episode to episode without a plan. The first canto of this poem appeared in 1818, and the seventeenth canto was unfinished due to its author dying in a fight for Greek independence. For 10 points, name this Lord Byron poem about a sexual libertine.
Don Juan
7

94920-)
In one work, this figure is introduced wearing a white veil, a green cape and a flame-red dress which all symbolize theological purity. In another work, this woman states that the dark spots on the moon are the result of different regions having different worth and thus shining more or less brightly. She ends one work by ordering a pair of men to drink from the river EunoÃ¨. While at (*) Primum Mobile, she states that the nine swirling clouds of fire are representative of nine orders of angels. We last see her joining the white rose that symbolizes the Virgin Mary, which leads her to be replaced by St. Bernard, who takes the narrator to the Empyrean. Earlier, she replaced Vergil as a guide on Mt. Purgatorio.  For 10 points, name this woman beloved by Dante who acts as a tour guide through Paradise.
Beatrice "Bice" di Folco Portinari [accept any of the underlined portions.]
7

94928-)
While hidden, this character exclaims "Poor worm, thou art infected! This visitation shows it." Towards the end of the work in which he appears, he promises that "Deeper than did ever plummet sound / I'll drown my book." This character warns his future son-in law that disaster will come upon him if he has sex before the actual wedding. This character entreats the (*) audience "As you from crimes would pardon'd be, Let your indulgence set me free" in an epilogue which is widely interpreted as his creator's 'farewell to the stage.' This character was the Duke of Milan until he was overthrown by his brother Antonio. For 10 points, name this scheming sorcerer who is served by the spirit Ariel, the protagonist of Shakespeare's The Tempest.
Prospero
7

94933-)
In one of this author's plays, a caged man asks his wife to fetch him a drink before dashing his head against the bars and killing himself. The protagonist of that play claims to "hold the Fates bound fast in iron chains, And with my hand turn Fortune's wheel about." Another character created by him dies when a knight blows a trumpet and he falls into the trap he had set for Calymath. Walter Raleigh's poem "The Nymph's Reply" was a response to a pastoral poem by him. One play by this author of Tamburlaine the Great, Parts I and II has a prologue delivered by Machiavel. The title character of another play asks asks to see "the face that launch'd a thousand ships". For 10 points, name this English Renaissance author of The Jew of Malta, "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" and The Tragical History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus.
Christopher Marlowe
7

94947-)
In one episode in this novel, Mr. Spencer asks the protagonist difficult questions about foreign affairs to illustrate the flaws of democracy. One character in this novel has a cup of cocoa every evening with a colleague and attempts to define the quality of "dignity" sought by the Hayes society. The protagonist recalls an international conference during which he failed to tell Reginald Cardinal about "the facts of life" and took care of M. Dupont while his own father died from a stroke. The new owner of Darlington Hall, Mr. Farraday, inspires the narrator to acquire "bantering" skills. The novel consists of the reminiscences of the narrator on a drive across England to visit the former housekeeper, Miss Kenton. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by the butler Stevens, written by Kazuo Ishiguro.
The Remains of the Day
7

94959-)
In one of his plays, one character believes the word "paradox" is actually the phrase "what a parrot talks". In one play by him, two characters, who argued during a rally about whether to aid Catholic Belgium, use a perambulator to loot stores together during an uprising. A character who claims to be going off  butterfly collecting leaves a sack full of bombs in one of his plays. The ghost of Robert Tancred keeps appearing to the armless Johnny who betrayed him in one of his plays. In one play by him, Minnie Powell takes the blame after Donal Davoren poses as the title character. In another play by him, Nora becomes delirious after Jack Clitheroe is shot. This playwright of The Shadow of a Gunman also created the preening Captain Jack Boyle. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of The Plough and the Stars and Juno and the Paycock. 
Sean O'Casey
7

94983-)
This work's narrator takes on a job previously held by a Dane named Fresleven who died in a dispute over some hens. The narrator of this work notes that "the snake had charmed me" in reference to a map he pored over as a child. A Russian assistant to this work's protagonist is called "Harlequin" because of his multicolored clothing. Another character in this work paints a dark portrait of his fiance and ends a report with the line "Exterminate all the Brutes!" This work takes place aboard the Nellie as Charles Marlow describes a man whose lasts words were "The horror, the horror!" For 10 points, name this work by Joseph Conrad about a voyage up the Congo to find Kurtz.
Heart of Darkness
6

95006-)
In a play set in this nation, Madame Arcati leads a sÃ©ance that results in Elvira disrupting the Condomine family. The works of one literary group from this nation were termed "kitchen-sink realism." A victim of electroshock therapy removes a homeless man named Davies from the title occupation of a play set in this nation entitled The Caretaker. NoÃ«l Coward and the "angry young men" hailed from this nation, as did the author of a play in whichan elevator-like machine brings food to the assassins Ben and Gus in a basement. For 10 points, name this home nation of the author of The Dumb Waiter, Harold Pinter.
United Kingdom [Accept Great Britain or England.]
6

95021-)
This poem ends with a character waking up as "a sadder and wiser man."  In this poem, one character bites down on his arm and drinks his blood to shout for help.  Earlier, that character is saved by a hermit, a pilot, and the pilot's son. The nightmarish Life-in-Death loses the lives of "four times fifty living men" in a dice game to Death in this poem, which was included in the collection Lyrical Ballads. The main character of this poem, who has a"glittering eye" and a long beard, describes the presence of "water, water everywhere / nor any drop to drink" to a wedding guest. For 10 points, name this poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge about the titular albatross-killing sailor.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner
6

95032-)
One of this author's poems urges listeners to "Rise like lions after slumber / in unvanquishable number," as "Ye are many--they are few." Another poem by this man states, "The breath whose might I have invoked in song / Descends on me" and asks "where was lorn Urania" when the title figure died. That work by this author of The Masque of Anarchy states that a certain soul "Beacons from the abode where the Eternal are" and repeatedly asks the reader to weep for Adonais. Another of this poet's speakers recalls a sculpture of a king whose pedestal reads "Look on my works ye mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
6

95064-)
One scene in this play concerns a pedant who pretends to be the father of another character to confirm a dowry. Another character in this play misinterprets a direction to knock and is derided as a "three-inch fool" by Curtis. Two men disguise themselves as music and Latin teachers in order to woo a woman in this play, which is performed for the amusement of the drunk Christopher Sly. Those men, Lucentio and Hortensio, pursue a daughter of Baptista Minola. That woman, Bianca, cannot get married before her elder sister, who is wooed by Petruchio. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which the bad-tempered Katherine represents the title animal.
Taming of the Shrew
6

95070-)
One character in this novel hoards some of the money she is given in order to pay back Briggs. That incident in this novel happens while Lord Steyne hosts a dinner party. In this novel, Frederick Bullock's wife plots to marry one of her daughters off to an orphan she believes will command a large inheritance. Another character in this novel loses her husband George Osborne at the Battle of Waterloo and finally marries William Dobbin. Her counterpart in this novel fails to get the inheritance she covets when she marries Rawdon Crawley. For 10 points, name this novel about Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair
6

95104-)
This poem notes that "with an eye made quiet by the power / of harmonyÂ… / we see into the life of things." Two parenthesized lines in this poem describe the "coarser pleasures" of the speaker's "boyish days, and their glad animal movements all gone by." This work opens with a description of "steep woods and lofty cliffs" along the River Wye and declares that "Nature never did betray / the heart that loved her." Appearing in Lyrical Ballads, this poem was dedicated to the poet's sister and opens, "Five years have past; five summers, with the length / Of five long winters." For 10 points, name this Romantic poem by William Wordsworth, written near the titular church.
"Lines Composed a Few Miles above Tintern Abbey, on Revisiting the Banks of the Wye during a Tour, July 13, 1798"
6

95137-)
This character inadvertently starts a fight with a girl nicknamed "The Queen of Spades" while walking back from a dance. This character runs away from a fancy hotel called "The Herons" in Sandbourne and earlier accidentally drives the family horse Prince into a fatal collision with the mailman's cart. A troop of policemen find her sleeping on an altar in (*) Stonehenge, and the novel ends with her husband looking at the black flag signaling her death with her sister Liza-Lu. She befriends Retty Priddle and Izz Huett while working at Talbothay's Dairy Farm, where she meets her husband, who flees to Brazil after learning that she had been raped by Alec. For 10 points, name this "pure woman" who marries Angel Clare in the Thomas Hardy novel named for her.
Tess Durbeyfield [or Tess d'Urberville; or Tess of the d'Urbervilles; prompt on "Durbeyfield" or "d'Urberville"]
5

95486-)
This woman's older sister studied under Sir Arthur Stockdale Cope and joined her in accusations of sexual molestation by George and Gerald Duckworth. This woman's father wrote a "historical study" that attacked the London Times's coverage of the Civil War. Her great aunt, photographer Julia Margaret Cameron, depicted this woman's mother staring straight into the camera with wild hair. Her niece, Angelica, spent her childhood unaware that Duncan Grant was her biological father, and later married Grant's former lover, David Garnett. In 1910, this woman's friend Horace de Vere Cole and her brother Adrian convinced her to join a prank in which they dressed up as Abyssinian ambassadors and toured the HMS Dreadnought. For 10 points, name this co-founder of the Hogarth Press, sister of Vanessa Bell, and lover of Vita Sackville-West who committed suicide by lining her pockets with stones and jumping into the River Ouse.
[Adeline] Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Stephen]
9

95495-)
This character drapes herself in a black lace scarf, puts on a pair of large earrings made of colored glass and gilding, and admires herself in a small, red-framed looking-glass in the chapter "The Two Bed Chambers." In an act of desperation, she finds a pool with which she will kill herself, but her lack of resolve leads her to sleep in a sheep pen where she is found by a shepherd. She dreams of being grand like Miss Lydia and Lady Dacey and of wearing finery that will outshine the new print dress of her rival, Mary Burge. This character makes an arduous journey to Windsor only to learn that the father of her unborn child is part of a regiment that has been called away. This woman then murders her child, buries it in some bushes, and is convicted for infanticide. This dairy maid is the love interest of a gifted carpenter in Hayslope who has a fistfight with the man she dreams of marrying, the squire Arthur Donnithorne. For 10 points, name this beautiful but shallow woman who appears in Adam Bede.
Hetty Sorrel [accept either name]
9

95504-)
One poem in this collection tells "guests" that they have "now seen Love's corpse-light shine" and relates an intellectual game called "Hiding the Skeleton." In this collection's penultimate poem, the main female figure cries in the middle of the night and says "this is my breast: look in!" This poetry collection, which includes "He found her by the ocean's moaning verge" and "At dinner she is hostess, I am host," begins with a poem in which the speaker imagines a sword that severed "sculptured effigies...upon their marriage-tomb." This collection begins with the line "By this he knew she wept with waking eyes." It was written after the poet's wife Mary Ellen, the daughter of Thomas Love Peacock, had an affair with the painter Henry Wallis. This collection, whose poems consist of an unusual 16 lines each, was published 20 years before its author's next poem, The Lark Ascending. For 10 points, name this sonnet sequence written by George Meredith. 
Modern Love 
9

95538-)
Monica McAlpine argues that this literary character is bisexual because he is clean-shaven and is compared to a gelding and a mare. In the spurious story The Tale of Beryn, this character gives Kit some money, calling her his treasurer, but he refuses to stop fasting. This character owns the shoulder bone of a holy Jew's sheep and a glove that is supposedly able to multiply grain. In his last appearance, another character threatens to chop off this man's balls and enshrine them with a fat turd from a hog. He enchants his audience with a sermon in which Attila the Hun and King Demetrius of Parthia are used as examples of notorious gluttons. This man, whose ironic motto is "radix malorum est cupiditas," tells a story in which a conniving friend purchases rat poison and wine to kill his other friends, who are sleeping under an oak tree. His story focuses on three men that seek to kill death, only to have death kill them in their greed. For 10 points, name this Canterbury pilgrim who sells indulgences. 
The Pardoner [accept The Pardoner's Tale] 
9

95550-)
In "A Loose Saraband," this subject washes the speaker's wounds with tears after the speaker is metaphorically "flogged" by Cupid. Another poem states that "destiny decreed / that beasts to [her] a sacrifice must bleed," erotically contrasting the white of her fingers with her ermine muff. A third poem describes a black fly that mistakes her face for paradise. Another poem addressing this woman refers to a king as "being the whole ball / of day on earth" and describes the Big Dipper as a "starry wain." Her sighs are "cold as the breath of winds that flow / to silver shot descending snow," and her frown "to rubies froze / the blood that boiled in our veins" in a poem depicting her namesake "world." Andrew Marvell wrote that some "will allege" that another poet "wronged in [this woman] the houses' privilege." For 10 points, what woman is asked to "tell me not, sweet, I am unkind" at the beginning of a Richard Lovelace poem addressed to her upon "going to the wars"?
Lucasta
9

95575-)
The speaker of one poem by this author calls the title feeling “the blissful cloud of summer” and states that “my sleep had been embroider’d with dim dreams.” Another poem by this author calls “ye clouds of Albion Begetters of our deep eternal theme,” and features a speaker who declares “betwixt damnation and impassion’d clay must I burn through.” The first poem by this man ends “vanish, ye phantoms! from my idle springs, into the clouds, and never more return!” The second poem by this writer recalls the pleasures of reading a “golden-tongued romance with serene lute” and ends with the speaker demanding “but when I am consumed in the fire, give me new phoenix wings to fly at my desire.” He described three temptresses named Ambition, Love, and Poesy in an 1819 poem that is addressed to the feeling of laziness. For 10 points, name this author of “On Sitting Down to Read King Lear Once Again” and “Ode On Indolence,” who also wrote “On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer.”
John Keats
9

95587-)
When playing soccer as a child, this character celebrated scoring a goal by pretending to splash through water with his hands in the air. This male character is told by his former teacher about how the Morningdale Scandal caused his school to be defunded. As an adolescent, he was teased for a painting of an elephant and often created deliberately childish pictures in order to hide his lack of creativity, though his creative skills developed while he stayed at The Cottages. While on a trip to Norfolk with Rodney and Chrissie to look for an office worker, this character replaced a lost cassette tape by buying Songs after Dark for the narrator. He and the narrator later started a relationship, but Miss Emily and Madame revealed that "deferrals" are not possible even for former residents of Hailsham. For 10 points, name this friend of Ruth and Kathy who "completes" after his fourth donation at the end of Kazuo Ishiguro's Never Let Me Go.
Tommy D
9

95625-)
A collection of stories titled after the "Episodes of" this character was discovered by Lewis Melville and describes Prince Barkiarokh having sex with the corpse of his wife Gazahide. This man hires an expert to translate the foreign text on the French swords he has just purchased, but one day, the text on those weapons changes into a menacing message, so he tries to imprison the expert. Later, this character sacrifices fifty youths in a chamber of ebony to receive a golden key and constructs a palace devoted to touch, hearing, taste, sight, and smell in his kingdom. This fictional ruler attempts to have a merchant named the Giaour imprisoned, and he possesses the ability to use an evil eye against scholars who disagree with him. This character, who is enchanted with his mother Carathis, ends up staying in the infernal palace of Iblis as punishment for pursuing arcane knowledge. For 10 points, name this Abbasid caliph who titles a novel by William Beckford. 
Vathek
9

95632-)
One of this poem's speakers wonders "if I think of a king at nightfall, of three men, and more...why should we celebrate these dead men more than the dying?" A stanza of this poem compares love to the shirt of Nessus. The speakers of this poem state "we shall not cease from exploration / and the end of all our exploring / will be to arrive where we started / and know the place for the first time." This poem asserts that "a people without history is not redeemed from time," because "history is a pattern of timeless moments." This poem references the spirit of Arnaut Daniel by describing "the pyre of pyre." Its section on the Battle of Britain is written in terza rima. The fifth and final part of this poem imagines "tongues of flame" folded into the "crowned knot of fire," so that the "fire and rose are one." This poem, which is named after an Anglican monastery, appears after "The Dry Salvages" [SWAY-juz] in a series that first appeared in 1944. For 10 points, name this last of Eliot's Four Quartets.
 "Little Gidding" [prompt on "(The) Four Quartets" before "Four Quartets"] 
9

95660-)
16.	This piece of prose notes that snakes and toads are killed "not for the evil they have done, but the evil they may do." Twice throughout this piece, it refers to a certain punishment as "fire and faggot." This piece states that Heaven let slip the moment "Post est Occasio CALVO!" It points out that the title group is "very numerous," but not as numerous as a similar group in France, and praises William III for giving them mercy. This tract begins by telling a story by Sir Roger L'Estrange that discusses the cock and the horses, and it criticizes the "fatal leniency" that allowed for the settlement of New England. This work's 1703 publication caused the author to be imprisoned for seditious libel; its author was then humiliated for three days at Charing Cross's public square, an experience that was mocked in the poem "Hymn to the Pillory." For 10 points, name this pamphlet that satirically argues for severe sanctions against religious Nonconformists in England, a work by Daniel Defoe.
"The Shortest Way with the Dissenters"
9

95675-)
One of this man's writings compares old friendships to cold and distasteful meats that are served up repeatedly. The second volume of one of this man's works compares Sir Joshua Reynolds's treatment of Orion to that of Nicolas Poussin, whom this man calls the most poetic of all painters. This author compares the knowledge of men to a very small compass in "On the Ignorance of the Learned." Another of this man's writings discusses how even our favorite books become indifferent to us over time, which leads him to conclude that even his old opinions have sadly deceived him. That piece by this author opens by describing how he resisted the urge to crush a spider, and argues that the title emotion is a poisonous mineral. This author of "On the Pleasure of Hating" wrote numerous pieces on Shakespeare, including the collection Characters of Shakespeare's Plays. For 10 points, name this foremost English essayist of the early 19th century, who authored Liber Amoris and Table Talk. 
William Hazlitt
9

95684-)
Charles Lamb misquotes this poem in his essay "The Old Benchers of the Inner Temple," as its fifth stanza actually begins "what wond'rous life in this I lead!" The volta of this poem is the sixth stanza, which sublimates the idea of a symmetrical submarine creation with an internal rhyme in the line "the mind, an ocean where each kind / does straight its own resemblance find / yet it creates, transcending these, / far other worlds, and other seas." The first stanza of this poem delineates the prizes of the martyr, conqueror, and poet Â– "the palm, the oak, or bays" Â– but notes that they are inferior to "the garlands of repose." Its third stanza notes that to carve a mistress's name into a tree is to deface the native beauty of the tree itself. This poem's final lines are "how could such sweet and wholesome hours / be reckoned but with herbs and flowers!" For 10 points, name this poem by Andrew Marvell that imagines man as happiest alone in Eden.
"The Garden"
9

95708-)
The speaker of one of his poems notes "the tree of man was never quiet" and describes a "Romanand his trouble" who are now "ashes under Uricon". One poem by this author of "On WenlockEdge" asks "why was Burton built on Trent?" and asserts "Malt does more than Milton can tojustify God's ways to man". In another of his poems, a "wise man" tells the speaker to "give crownsand pounds and guineas, but not your heart away". This author of (*) "Terence, This is Stupid Stuff"and "When I was one-and-twenty" wrote a poem addressed to a "townsman of a stiller town" who will notbecome a "runner whom renown outran", as he is being brought home in a coffin. For 10 points, name thisEnglish author of "To An Athlete Dying Young", a poem from his collection A Shropshire Lad.
Alfred Edward Housman
5

95744-)
This poem describes a "golden Cupidon" who peeped out from a glass and "doubled the flamesof sevenbranched candelabra" and contains a request "in demotic French / to luncheon" byEugenides of Smyrna. Its first section asks "What are the roots that clutch, what branches grow / outof this stony rubbish?" This poem features the corpse of Stetson and a pearl-eyed figure who isspotted in a "wicked (*) pack of cards" by Madame Sosostris. It includes the drowned Phoenician sailorPhlebas and a section that repeats the line "HURRY UP PLEASE IT'S TIME". Narrated by Tiresias, itopens with an epigraph about the Cumaean Sibyl and ends with the line "Shantih shantih shantih". For 10points, name this poem beginning "April is the cruelest month", a work of T.S. Eliot.
"The Waste Land"
5

95748-)
A poem by this author describes "a king in exile, uncrowned in the underworld" who visits thespeaker's water trough. In a short story by this author, the protagonist partners with OscarCresswell and the gardener Bassett after hearing the repeated phrase "There must be more money".This author of "The Snake" wrote a novel whose protagonist leaves Miriam Lievers in favor of ClaraDawes, but remains attached to his (*) mother Gertrude. Another of his novels is set at the estate ofWragby, where the protagonist has an affair with Michaelis and divorces Clifford after being impregnatedby Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this author of "The Rocking Horse Winner", who wrote about PaulMorel in Sons and Lovers and penned Lady Chatterley's Lover.
David Herbert Richards Lawrence
5

95784-)
A poem by this author commands her love to "let thy mouth / Be heir to those who are now exanimate" and states that she will "answer and not wait." In a book-length poem by this author, Lady Waldemar vies for the love of Romney, who was left at the altar by Marian Erle. In another poem by this author, she performs the title action freely, purely, and "with the breath / Smiles, tears, of all my life." This author of Aurora Leigh included the poem "Yes, call me by my pet name!" in a collection containing forty-four fourteen-line poems. For 10 points, name this author of Sonnets from the Portuguese, which includes "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways."
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [prompt on Browning]
6

95811-)
The narrator of one poem by this author declares that he will "flyÂ…on the viewless wings of Poesy" and tells the title creature that "no hungry generations tread thee down." He wrote a poem whose title object is told that "thy streets for evermore / Will silent be." In that poem, this poet stated that "Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard / Are sweeter." Another of this man's poems states the phrase "tender is the night," and tells a creature that "Thou wast not born for death!" He also wrote a poem addressed to an "unravish'd bride of quietness" that suggests that "beauty is truth, truth beauty." For 10 points, name this author of odes to a nightingale and a Grecian Urn.
John Keats
6

95821-)
Discussions of the grand nature of a spider's web interrupt an argument carried out by volumes in a library in a satire by this author. In one novel by this author, residents of the city of Lindalina revolt against Laputa, a kingdom that fights by throwing stones down onto belligerents. One of this author's written works suggests the use of 120,000 children in a "fricassee or ragout." That pamphlet, which recommends that poor Irish people sell their babies as food, is titled A Modest Proposal. The protagonist of this author's most work meets the minuscule Lilliputians on an extensive global voyage. For 10 points, name this Anglo-Irish author of Gulliver's Travels.
Jonathan Swift [accept The Battle of the Books before "author" is read]
6

95831-)
A poem by this man addresses a man named Baldassaro who sits "stately at the clavichord" playing the titular composition. This poet of "A Toccata of Galuppi's" wrote a poem beginning "the rain set early in to-night" and whose narrator notes that "yet God has not said a word" after strangling his blonde lover. Another work by this poet of "Porphyria's Lover" ends with an offer to show Neptune taming a sea horse, "which Claus of Innsbruck cast in bronze." That dramatic monologue describes a woman whose heart was "too soon made glad," and whose portrait was painted by Fra Pandolf. For 10 points, name this English poet who wrote "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning
6

95846-)
The title character of one novel by this author marries a draper who is imprisoned and escapes to France, after which she accidentally marries her half-brother. A parable about a cock and some horses opens this man's satirical pamphlet The Shortest Way with the Dissenters. He wrote a novel whose title character marries Jemmy and returns from the colonies to conclude a life of crime that included multiple stints in Newgate Prison. In another work by this author of Moll Flanders, the title shipwrecked character keeps running into cannibals as he navigates an area around the Island of Despair with Friday. For 10 points, name this British author of Robinson Crusoe.
Daniel Defoe
6

95888-)
One of this man's poems imagines an object "hung with snow" that "stands about the woodland ride / Wearing white for Eastertide." That poem is found in a collection alongside a poem in which a wise man tells the narrator to "Give crowns and pounds and guineas / But not your heart away," and ends with the lament, "And oh, 'tis true, 'tis true." This poet describes "fields where glory does not stay" in a poem that notes that the laurel "withers quicker than the rose," and recalls "the time you won your town the race." For 10 points, name this English poet of "To An Athlete Dying Young" and "When I Was One and Twenty," which appeared in his collection A Shropshire Lad.
Alfred Edward Housman
6

95911-)
The solicitor Mr. Briggs arrives to expose one of this man's lies after a woman sends a letter to her dying uncle. This man's father left the entirety of the family estate to his brother Rowland. This fiancÃ© of Blanche Ingram later attributes the late-at-night tearing of a bridal veil to a drunken Grace Poole. He meets his future love when his horse slips on ice, while that woman is on her way to tutor Adele Varens. That girl meets St. John Rivers after fleeing this man's house, having learned that he is already married, but agrees to marry him after this man's insane wife Bertha Mason burns down Thornfield Hall. For 10 points, name this employer and eventual husband of Jane Eyre.
Edward Rochester [accept Mr. Rochester]
6

95924-)
This character is compared to a bright comet that shines as long as Ophiuchus as he rises "over the Caspian." In one conversation, this character concludes that his addressee would "boldly venture to whatever place / farthest from pain." His nemesis warns others to beware of this character's plans, which he initiates by taking the form of a cormorant and sitting atop the Tree of Life. This character, who loses the trust of Abdiel, resides in Pandemonium with his second-in-charge, Beelzebub, and his children, Sin and Death. For 10 points, name this character who concludes that it is better to reign in Hell than to serve in Heaven, a fallen angel in John Milton's Paradise Lost.
Satan [or Lucifer]
6

95939-)
In this novel, a disgruntled military general forces the protagonist to move back to Fullerton after he is misled about her family's fortune. The marriage that concludes this novel is made possible by Eleanor's betrothal to a nobleman. One character in this novel is courted by the protagonist's brother, James, but lets him loose in favor of the wealthy military general Frederick. That character, Isabella Thorpe, first introduces this novel's protagonist to the Gothic novels which give her unrealistic expectations of the titular building, which is the home of her love interest Henry Tilney. For 10 points, name this novel about Catherine Morland by Jane Austen.
Northanger Abbey
6

95965-)
Near the end of this novel, one character moves to an isolated air-lighthouse where he flogs himself, causing a crowd to assemble later and chant "We--want--the whip!" Platitudes in this work include "a gramme in time saves nine" and "civilization is sterilization." In this novel, Lenina Crowne is attracted to a man from Malpais whose mother, Linda, slept with the Director of Hatcheries and Conditioning. Including descriptions of soma consumption and the Bokanovsky Process for making different classes of humans, this novel ends with the exile of Bernard Marx to Iceland, while John the Savage hangs himself. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley.
Brave New World
6

95972-)
In one novel by this author, Fancy Day accepts a marriage proposal from a vicar despite being engaged to Dick Dewy. The speaker of a poem by this author of Under the Greenwood Tree muses on "Some blessed Hope" that the title creature knew "And I was unaware." That poem was written in 1899 or 1900 and opens, "I leant upon a coppice gate." In one of his novels, the title stonemason from this author's invented region of Wessex has relationships with Sue Bridehead and Arabella Donn, while another novel sees Michael Henchard auction off his wife and daughter for five guineas. For 10 points, name this English author of Jude the Obscure and The Mayor of Casterbridge.
Thomas Hardy
6

95994-)
The title character of one play by this man is killed by Lightborn, but the man executed for the crime is Isabella's lover. The Emperor of Germany asks the title character of another of his plays to conjure up Alexander the Great. Piers Gaveston's return opens this man's play Edward II, while Abigail enter a nunnery before being poisoned in another his plays. One of this man's characters asks, "was this the face that launched a thousand ships" after making Helen appear, a power he gets for selling his soul to Mephistophilis. Barabas dies in a boiling cauldron in another play by him. For 10 points, name this British playwright of Doctor Faustus and The Jew of Malta.
Christopher Marlowe
6

96013-)
Two inept servants named Roger and Diggory slow down preparations for the arrival of a wealthy suitor in a play by this author. The plot of that play is set off by the deceit of two travelers at the Three Pigeons alehouse. In a novel by this man, Ephraim Jenkinson orchestrates the fake death of Olivia, who ends up marrying a womanizer whose uncle poses as Burchell. One of his plays ends with Tony Lumpkin inheriting lots of jewels and Charles Marlow being betrothed to Kate Hardcastle, and this man's best-known novel sees Arabella Wilmot marry George after Squire Thornhill is foiled. For 10 points, name this author of She Stoops to Conquer and The Vicar of Wakefield.
Oliver Goldsmith [accept She Stoops to Conquer before "author" is read]
6

96028-)
In a short story by this author, the confectioner Edward Freeley is ruined after the title figure identifies him as the criminal David Faux. In the companion story to that work, the revived corpse of a maid prompts Latimer to discover that his wife Bertha is about to poison him, confirming his lifelong distress over his telepathic abilities. This author of "Brother Jacob" and "The Lifted Veil" wrote a collection in which Tina Sarti is loved and lost by Maynard Gilfil and a series of misfortunes befall Amos Barton while he preaches near Milby. An election in Treby Magna serves as the backdrop for a love triangle between Harold Transome, Esther Lyon, and the titular "radical" in a novel by this author of Scenes of Clerical Life. William Dane's frame job forces another of this author's title characters to leave Lantern Yard for Raveloe, where he raises the orphaned Eppie. For 10 points, identify this author of Felix Holt the Radical, Middlemarch, and Silas Marner.
George Eliot [accept Mary Anne Evans]
7

96044-)
This work's last act begins with a train of dark Forms and Shadows mourning the death of the King of Hours. Act III, Scene II is set in a river in Atlantis, where Ocean and Apollo discuss how a shapeless extra-human evil has overthrown a monarch. The fourth act includes much dialogue between the Earth and the Moon and exults the liberation of man. This play's title character is in love with the character of Asia, who has conversations with the revolutionary Demogorgon. Beginning with the title character surrounded by Ione and Panthea, he later cries out against the tyrannical "Monarch of Gods and Daemons" Jupiter and mourns the fact that a hawk eats his liver out daily. For 10 points, identify this update of Aeschylus's Prometheia, a work of Percy Shelley.
Prometheus Unbound
7

96063-)
Some lesser known figures that reside in this place include the philosopher Michael Scot and a shoemaker known as Asdente. A man that sailed past the pillars of Hercules and tried to approach a mountain unfortunately wound up at this location, but now that man is reincarnated as a flame with his companion Diomedes. To reach this location, the narrator gives his cord tied around his waist to a travelling companion, who then tosses it and summons a wyvern-like creature named Geryon. A group of demons led by Malacoda mercilessly punish those in this place, which features a population of astrologers that walk with their heads backwards. After leaving this location, the main characters encounter Ephialtes, Nimrod, and other giants at Cocytus. This location is reserved for those who have committed fraud, and is split into ten subsections for various crimes. For 10 points, name this penultimate circle of the Inferno.
Malebolge or the Eighth Circle of Hell [prompt on an ill-advised buzz of "Inferno" or "Hell"]
7

96073-)
In one of this author's novels the heart of the toy merchant Tackleton appreciates the true power of Christmas after Edward Plummer reveals his true disguise. One of this author's characters falls down the "Old Hell Shaft" and speaks to his true love the factory worker Rachel before he dies. This author started the magazine Household Words in order to spread his ideas. That magazine published one of his novels that ends with Tom escaping to a circus to flee to America, while Josiah Bounderby is revealed to have lied about his origins. This author of The Cricket and the Hearth contrasted the fanciful Sissy Jupe with the Utilitarian philosophy Thomas Gradgrind, who insists that everyone learn "facts." For 10 points, name this author of Hard Times and A Tale of Two Cities.
Charles Dickens
7

96089-)
In one appearance, this character meditates about the plate-glass windows of the Marine Biological station and spends many pages discussing "our native muse" and its relation to performance. In that appearance, he speaks in the style of Henry James as he delivers a prose poem to the audience. A different work depicts this character allowing twenty crabs to live, before deciding to stone the twenty-first crab. In that work, this figure is told that a mysterious force called "The Quiet" rules nature before comparing his situation to that of a whimsical god that "dwelleth i' the cold o' the moon." He appears in The Sea and the Mirror and is used to satirize natural theology in a work by Robert Browning in which he contemplates Setebos. For 10 points, identify this son of Sycorax, a villain from Shakespeare's The Tempest.
Caliban
7

96105-)
In one scene in this play, a man reveals that he has hit his wife once or twice but that he doesn't do so out of moral principle, but rather just to give a good bashing. Twice throughout this play, two of its characters debate in whose kitchen the child Charlotte was picked up and lifted up and down. Scene III opens with two of its leads visiting a flat they once used for sex, while Scene 8 ends with the revelation that one of those two characters became pregnant while the other was in America. The two male characters in this play often discuss playing squash, but never actually do so. Although never brought on stage, Roger Casey is often lambasted because his writing is panned by Emma's husband Robert. For 10 points, identify this play told in reverse chronological order which traces the title infidelities, a work of Harold Pinter.
Betrayal
7

96136-)
In one part of this work, a character overturns the wine bowl of Lady Excess and uses a net to destroy a witch who is able to turn men into animals. That section of this work describes Acrasia, a sorceress who dwells in the "Bower of Bliss." One character in this work convinces the scheming flatterer Trompart to become his servant. Two hags named Impotence and Impatience are subordinates of Melager, who attacks Prince Arthur in this work after Palmer and his travelling companion visit his library. Its other characters include Belphoebe, a woman that rejects the advances of Braggadocchio. Only six books of this poem's 12 intended books were finished by the author. Its second book opens with the escape of Archimago, and its characters include Guyon and The Red Crosse Knight. For 10 points, identify this epic poem by Edmund Spenser.
The Faerie Queene
7

96160-)
One song in this play includes the refrain "Toroddle, toroddle, toroll." The prologue to this play begins by declaring that the "Comic Muse, long sick, is now a-dying," and was written by David Garrick. Two servants in this play are consistently called "blockhead" by their master, who continually tells tales of working with the Duke of Marlborough. One subplot in this play involves two characters planning on stealing some jewels and absconding to France, while two other characters in this play are fooled into thinking that Mr. Hardcastle is an innkeeper. Constance Neville marries George Hastings at the end of this work, whose friend, Marlow, mistakenly believes Kate to be a maid. For 10 points, name this comedy featuring the mischievous Tony Lumpkin by Oliver Goldsmith.
She Stoops to Conquer
7

96163-)
In this novel's first chapter, the protagonist accidentally leaves behind a book which he has hidden in the covers of a romance novel called La Eterna Martir. This novel's protagonist criticizes a Gideon Bible designed for salesmen, which he finds at the home of the widower Mr. Lehr. In its final chapter, a boy named Luis spits on the gun which is used to kill the protagonist. Other characters in this novel include the dentist Tench and a teenager who befriends the protagonist named Coral Fellows. The protagonist of this novel is betrayed by a mestizo and has a daughter named Brigitta. That protagonist is hunted by the Lieutenant who pursues him throughout Mexico. For 10 points, name this novel about a "whiskey priest" by Graham Greene.
The Power and the Glory
7

96179-)
One work of literature inspired by these objects bemoans the "iniquity of oblivion," asking "Who can but pity the founder of the Pyramids?" even though "Herostratus lives [as the man] that burns the temple of Diana." A book titled for one of these objects argues that to paraphrase a poem in order to understand its meaning is heresy. Thomas Browne wrote Hydriotaphia after finding some at Norfolk, and in "The Canonization," Donne writes of a "well-wrought" one. One of these title objects inspires a "heart high-sorrowful and cloy'd, a burning forehead, and a parching tongue" in the speaker. That object appears in the title of a poem that asks "What men or gods are these? What maidens loth? What mad pursuit?" and "What wild ecstasy?" For 10 points, name these objects, one of which is a "still unravish'd bride of quietness" in an ode by John Keats.
urns [accept vases]
7

96231-)
About halfway through this play, a once cynical character shows signs of truly being in love, such as having a toothache and appearing with his beard shaven. In Act V, one of the heroes of this play sings "Pardon, Goddess of the Night" after hanging a scroll at the tomb of his lover, whom he thinks is dead. Its characters include Margaret and Ursula, the latter of whom schemes to bring a couple together. At this play's close, John the Bastard is captured and will be returned to Messina. Its conclusion is foretold by the arrest of Borachio and Conrad by the bumbling Dogberry. This play contrasts the naÃ¯ve couple Hero and Claudio with a witty couple whose squabbling indicates the title of this work. For 10 points, identify this Shakespeare play whose central couple is Beatrice and Benedick.
Much Ado About Nothing
7

96248-)
Samuel Coleridge wrote a poem describing an encounter with a "sleeping Love" with a "lucent hue" after finding one of these title objects, and Swinburne calls the title "Our Lady of Pain" a mystical one of these "of the mire" in his poem Dolores. One of Herrick's Julia poems imagines Parliament voting that one of these objects should become a Queen, and the title Passionate Shepherd promises to make beds out of these objects in a Christopher Marlowe poem. One of these objects is destroyed by a "dark secret love" by an animal that "flies in the night in the howling storm" in a William Blake poem, and the buds of them appear in the first line of "To the Virgins to Make Much of Time." For 10 points, identify these plants that are "sick" in the title of a William Blake poem, which Herrick urges "to gather, while ye may."
roses or rosebuds [prompt on "flowers"]
7

96263-)
One character visits this location on earth by disguising himself as a toad before he whispers into the ears of a sleeping woman. That character leaves this location after the descent of a pair of golden scales. After achieving a victory at this location, a villain returns home and hears hisses instead of applause and sees a grove of trees have all their fruit turn into ash. A storyteller speaking to one of this location's inhabitants describes how Abdiel tried to mediate a conflict between a loser that fell for nine days through Chaos. That dude telling a story at this location describes how the winning army in that conflict used mountains to bury their foes. While speaking to its inhabitants, Raphael invokes Urania to describe the Creation of the world. A sexual encounter between its two inhabitants results in guilt and shame being exposed for the first time; that happened because they both ate a piece of forbidden fruit. For 10 points, identify this location that Adam and Eve lose in a poem by John Milton.
Paradise [accept the garden of Eden]
7

96311-)
One of this author's characters receives a plastic penis with the word "Wanker" written on it and is ordered to use a "nocturnal mensurator" by the doctor Proinsias Rosenberg. In one of this author's novels, an attractive and chaste primary school teacher is pursued by the grammarian Patrick Standish. He wrote about a man who returns to his birth home and relives his past with Peter Thomas and Charlie Norris with his wife Rhiannon in one novel. That character created by this author, Alun Weaver, suddenly drops dead. This author of Jake's Thing created a character who nearly burns down a man's home after falling asleep with a lit cigarette in his hand. That character abandons Margaret Peel at a dance before getting hammered and lambasting Professor Welch at a lecture about "Merrie England." For 10 points, name this British author of Take a Girl Like You, The Old Devils, and Lucky Jim.
Kingsley Amis [do not accept "Martin Amis," though I doubt anyone is that clumsy.]
7

96315-)
One character in this novel brings up the historical examples of Henry VIII, Alexander VI, and Mr. and Mrs. Manning to prove that fat people aren't necessarily amiable. During a performance of the opera Lucrezia Borgia in this novel, the blood-red brand on one character's arm reveals that he belongs to an organization called The Brotherhood. One character in this novel catches a fever after lying out on a roof in the rain in order to (*) eavesdrop on a plot co-hatched by a man who dies in a vestry fire he sets to destroy a church register that he forged in order to hide his illegitimacy. Those two characters are Sir Percival Glyde and Marian Halcombe. In this novel, Count Fosco masterminds a scheme to seize Laura Fairlie's estate by using her resemblance to the asylum inmate, Anne Catherick, whose characteristic garb titles the book. For 10 points, name this "sensation novel" by Wilkie Collins. 
The Woman in White
8

96368-)
One character in this play describes another character as Lady Pusillanimous, before reading aloud the definition of "pusillanimous" from a dictionary. That character in this play claims that anyone who's never watched someone die "is suffering from a pretty bad case of virginity", before describing his own father's death. In this play, two characters play a game imagining themselves as a bear and a (*) squirrel. One character in this play burns her arm when two wrestling men knock into her while she's ironing clothes. After the protagonist returns from the hospital where Hugh's mother has died, he begins an affair with Helena. In the final act, Allison returns after suffering the miscarriage that her husband wished upon her, so that she could understand his suffering. For 10 points, name this play about Jimmy Porter, by John Osborne, which started the "Angry Young Man" movement.
Look Back in Anger
8

96392-)
When one character in this novel is delighted by a bird she thinks is a cardinal, the protagonist informs her that it is a coppery-tailed trogon while they sit in an unkempt garden where he later finds a sign asking people not to let their children destroy it. One character in this novel watches a girl play with an armadillo outside a bar where she discusses her relationship with a guitar-playing journalist who spent a year sailing on the Philoctetes. Peter (*) Lorre's remake of The Hands of Orlac plays at the cinema in this novel, whose characters are haunted by an abyssal barranca and often discuss the Battle of the Ebro. Pariah dogs shadow this novel's strychnine-imbibing protagonist, who competes with his half-brother Hugh for the affections of his ex-wife Yvonne. For 10 points, name this novel about an alcoholic British consul in Quauhnahuac, set on the Day of the Dead and written by Malcolm Lowry.
Under the Volcano
8

96452-)
This character claims, "The brain may / devise laws for the blood, but a hot temper leaps / o'er a cold decree" before recoiling at the word "choose." This character asserts that "the crow doth sing as sweetly as the lark / When neither is attended" while listening to music at the end of the play in which she appears. This character wishes, "Let all of his complexion choose me so" after a dark-skinned Moroccan (*) suitor finds a scroll claiming "all that glisters is not gold" instead of her portrait. After describing "an attribute of God himself" "enthroned in the hearts of kings," this character is lauded as "a Daniel come to judgment." This heiress of Belmont demands that her husband return a ring that he gave to her while she was disguised as a lawyer who gave a speech about the "quality of mercy." For 10 points, name this wife of Bassanio who prevents Shylock from taking a pound of Antonio's flesh in The Merchant of Venice.
Portia [accept Balthazar]
8

96466-)
One member of this family jokes that a couple will be so generous that their servants will take advantage of them and cheat them to bankruptcy. Another member of this family muses that there is no praise higher than that of a housekeeper while looking at a portrait of her future husband. That member of this family accompanies the Forsters to Brighton to keep up the acquaintance of a regiment; it is later assumed that the Gardiners have paid over ten thousand pounds to convince the soldier that she elopes with to marry her. The youngest child in this family ends up marrying Wickham, while the oldest child marries Bingley. For 10 points, name this family including Lydia, Jane, and Elizabeth, who marries Mr. Darcy at the end of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.
Bennet family [accept more specific answers]
7

96482-)
One character in this play proclaims that his bride is "but a sign and semblance of her honor" before leaving her at the altar. Another character in this play compares one half of his character to a "savage bull" and laments that his horns signify that any woman who would marry him would be sure to commit adultery. An officer in this play insists on having it be written that he is an ass after revealing that Borachio had been paid by Don John to break up a marriage. In this play, Leonato is the governor of Messina, and Leonato's daughter fakes her own death after she is wrongfully accused of  infidelity in order to reveal the deception. It also includes the bumbling constable Dogberry. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy that ends with the double marriage of Claudio and Hero and Beatrice and Benedick.
Much Ado About Nothing
7

96496-)
In one speech, this character displays his envy of "the wretched slave who with a body filled and vacant mind gets him to rest, crammed with distressful bread." A Welshman compares this character to Alexander the Great, since they both killed their best friends and their birthplaces are similar. After disguising himself by borrowing Erpingham's cloak, this character gets into an argument with a group of soldiers, including Michael Williams. This character receives a gift of tennis balls from the Dauphin intended to mock his leisurely and dissolute youth. His forces easily take Harfleur after he declares "Once more unto the breach," but in a more famous speech, he says "The fewer men, the greater share of honor" and addresses his soldiers as "we few, we happy few, we band of brothers." For 10 points, name this king who gives the St. Crispin's Day speech before the Battle of Agincourt in a Shakespeare play.
Henry V
7

96504-)
This author inspired a 20th-century poem that describes a poster that says: "my bleeding is under control", and includes the line: "The grammar turned and attacked me". In an analysis of one poem by this author, the images of an eagle, a dove, and a candle are said to be fused in that poem's reference to "the phoenix riddle". The speaker of one poem by him declares that if even if his story is "unfit for tomb or hearse", it is nonetheless "fit for verse". That poem by him begins: "For (*) God's sake hold your tongue, and let me love", and compares poetry to a "well-wrought urn". Another poem by him declares "'Twere profanation of our joys / To tell the laity of our love", and compares parting lovers to feet of a compass, in its most famous conceit. For 10 points, name this Metaphysical poet, the author of "The Canonization" and "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning".
John Donne
8

96516-)
This character mentions that he preferred the soldier to the philosopher in Sartor Resartus in a story in which the realization that the floating object thumping against his leg is a saucepan causes this character to start a search for the cook. This character forwards a packet of letters to a man who declared that "giving up your life to [non-white people] was like selling your soul to a brute". He reflects on the suicide of a man who served on the board of inquiry investigating a (*) collision, Captain Brierly. He is the replacement for a man who was killed in an argument over two hens, Freselven. This character, who appears in the short story "Youth", narrates a novel in which Gentleman Brown kills Dain Waris at Patusan. In another work, this character lies and tells a woman that her fiancÃ©e's last words were her name, instead of "The horror!". For 10 points, name this narrator of Joseph Conrad's Lord Jim and Heart of Darkness.
Charles Marlow [accept either underlined answer]
8

96528-)
This author's first major success on the stage contains a puppet play called The Pleasures of the Town, written by Harry Luckless. As the editor of the Covent-Garden Journal, this author of The Author' s Farce started the so-called "Paper War" by attacking John Hill. The title character of one of his novels injures her nose in a carriage accident and is married to William Booth. He wrote a novel whose title character resists the sexual advances of Lady Booby, much like Mr. B is resisted by the title character of Richardson's Pamela. In his best known novel, the protagonist's love for Sophia Western is opposed by Squire Allworthy, who takes him in as a foundling. For 10 points, name this author who parodied Pamela in Shamela and Joseph Andrews and wrote Amelia and the picaresque novel Tom Jones.
Henry Fielding
7

96548-)
Edward Bulwer-Lytton urged the author of this novel to change its ending, resulting in an episode set eleven years after the main action in which two characters join hands in a garden. In one scene from this novel, the protagonist's sister is viciously attacked by Dolge Orlick. One location in this novel takes its name from a Latin word meaning "enough" and is called Satis House; the resident of that house wears only one shoe and keeps all the clocks at eight forty in memory of her abandonment at the altar by Compeyson. This novel's protagonist befriends Herbert Pocket in London, but he is disappointed when he discovers that Bentley Drummle has married his beloved Estella. This novel's main character is surprised to discover that his benefactor is the convict Abel Magwitch. For 10 points, name this novel about Pip by Charles Dickens.
Great Expectations
7

96599-)
The speaker of this poem experiences "sensations sweet" and "feelings too of unremembered pleasure." Near the end of this poem, the speaker says that the addressee's voice reminds him of "the language of my former heart." The speaker recalls the "aching joys" and "dizzy raptures" of his youth, when he took a purely sensual delight in nature, which "had no need of a remoter charm by thought supplied." Later in life, the speaker of this poem feels "the joy of elevated thoughts" and hears "the still, sad music of humanity" when looking upon nature. This poem begins by noting that "five years have passed" since the speaker visited the title place. The writing of this poem was occasioned by the poet's visit to the title building on the River Wye with his sister Dorothy. For 10 points, name this William Wordsworth poem.
"Lines Written a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey"
7

96627-)
While transporting some beehives to a market, this character falls asleep and has a dream about a nobleman laughing at her; when she awakes, she discovers that her family's horse, Prince, has died in a collision with a mail cart. This character does not think that a rooster crowing during the middle of her wedding day is a bad omen. This character writes a confession and slips it under a door, but her fiance does not receive it because the note is hidden beneath a carpet. For a time, she works alongside Izz and Marian at Talbothays Dairy. After revealing to her fiance that she is not a virgin, she drives Angel Clare to flee to Brazil, and she is so enraged at Alec for seducing her that she stabs him to death. For 10 points, name this title character of a Thomas Hardy novel whose name resembles that of the highborn D'Urberville family.
Tess of the D'Urvervilles [or Tess Durbeyfield]
7

96636-)
One example of this animal describes a car as "The Envy of Sisyphus" because it can go uphill in criticizing the intellect of Lady Blemley after being given the ability of speech by Cornelius Appin. One of these animals lists four truths while trying to eat a certain type of cake and observes Avalon Coldmoon's failure to court Opula Goldfield as well as the pranks of Waverhouse on Mr. Sneaze. A talking one of these animals is "Tobermory" from a short story by Saki. Another one of these animals narrates a Natsume Soseki novel. A favorite one of these animals drowns in a tub of goldfishes in a poem by Thomas Gray. For 10 points, name these animals, which include Macavity and Mr. Mistoffelees in a book by T. S. Eliot named after "Old Possum."
cats [accept kittens]
7

96660-)
A woman nicknamed "Z" travels to this city and falls in love with an older man in a novel by Xiaolu Guo. Martha Quest arrives in this city from Africa at the start of Doris Lessing's The Four-Gated City. Maurice Bendrix's apartment building in this city is destroyed by a bomb while he is with his lover, Sarah Miles, in Graham Greene's The End of the Affair. In a different novel, Tellson's Bank is located in this city, and it is the home of Jerry Cruncher, who digs up bodies and sells them to science. In that book, this city is the site of the marriage of Lucie Manette to Charles Darnay and is referred to by the line "It was the best of times." The speaker sees "Marks of weakness" and "marks of woe" in the faces of the people of this city in a poem titled after it by William Blake. For 10 points, name this city paired with Paris in Charles Dickens's A Tale of Two Cities.
London
7

96666-)
This author wrote a story in which a young man giving away cream tarts for free intrigues Prince Florizel of Bohemia and Colonel Geraldine. That story is one of three linked detective stories by this author, one of which is called "The Adventure of the Hansom Cab." This author of The Suicide Club never finished a novel in which Archie Weir falls in love with Christina while serving as the laird of Hermiston. He wrote Catriona as a sequel to a novel in which David Balfour is held captive by Captain Hoseason. In a novella by this author, Danvers Carew is beaten to death by a man who later leaves a note telling Gabriel Utterson that he created a potion that turned him into an evil man. For 10 points, name this author of Kidnapped and The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
Robert Louis Stevenson
7

96705-)
This character warns against "Dangerous conjectures in ill-breeding minds" at the beginning of one scene, then hangs around doing nothing until the scene ends. When one character ends an impromptu poem with the word "pajock," this character replies, "You might have rhymed." This character talks about "stars with trains of fire and dews of blood" in a speech that begins with the line, "A mote it is to trouble the mind's eye." This character came from Wittenberg to Elsinore to attend the funeral of a king whose ghost he sees twice in one hour. He later tells that king's dead son "Good night, sweet prince." He is the addressee of a speech which takes place in a graveyard and begins "Alas, poor Yorick!" For 10 points, to whom does Hamlet say "There are more things in heaven and earth Â… than are dreamt of in your philosophy?"
Horatio
7

96719-)
In one work, this man urges "be a teacher" to a man to whom he gives a silver cup, and whoexpresses admiration for Machiavelli. When asked to sign a certain document "for fellowship", thisman asks if his addressee will in return join him in hell "for fellowship" when he is damned there.A speech by this man declares that he would give the Devil the benefit of law. This man iscondemned by Richard (*) Rich's perjury in a play in which his manservant, his executioner, and theforeman of the jury that sentences him are played by a character called The Common Man. In a work bythis man, unappealing objects like chamber pots are made of gold in order to foster dislike for gold. Thatwork by this man tells of Raphael Hythloday's travels to the title idyllic island, whose name means "noland". For 10 points, name this protagonist of Robert Bolt's A Man for All Seasons, the real-life author ofUtopia.
Sir Thomas More
8

96723-)
This author wrote a story in which a chef drowns a violinist in a tureen of steaming soup fordistracting diners from appreciating the chef's masterpiece. In another work by him, women of the"disenfranchisement movement" stage weeping demonstrations in opposition to Hermann theIrascible's law making voting compulsory for women. In one of his stories, Cornelius Appinteaches a cat to talk, but its habit of spreading embarrassing gossip leads everyone to try to kill it.This author created (*) Conradin, who worships the title ferret, which kills his guardian. The line"Romance at short notice was her specialty" ends a story by him in which Vera Sappleton frightens Mr.Nuttel by convincing him that the hunters returning through the title entrance are ghosts. For 10 points,name this British short story writer who included "Sredni Vashtar" in his The Chronicles of Clovis andwrote "The Open Window".
Saki [or H.H. Munro]
8

96727-)
While drunk on cognac, one character in this novel imagines piercing the protagonist and ahandyman who joins the Navy on a bayonet. The protagonist of this novel is exhorted to rememberan imaginary Eastertide trip to a bakery in Millau by a dying Frenchman who thinks he's in Paris.In this novel, a millionaire who sells Amo chocolate bars to soldiers eventually marries theprotagonist's freckled cousin, whose twin brothers Pierrot and Jackson go missing after theirproduction of the protagonist's play (*) The Trials of Arabella is canceled. The protagonist of thisnovel spies on a character who later fights at Dunkirk having sex in the library after reading his sexuallycharged letter to her sister, causing her to send him to prison by accusing him of raping Lola Quincey. For10 points, name this novel about Robbie and Cecilia being torn apart by the budding novelist BrionyTallis, a work by Ian McEwan.
Atonement
8

96746-)
One character in this play says that he would be miserable if he were rid of his wife, becausegetting rid of her is his only hope, and one should never outlive one's hopes. In Act Five, twocharacters in this play break an oath not to reveal another character's affair, because that oath wassworn on a poetry collection instead of on a bible. One character in this play states his future wifecannot have a female confidante or chase after fops at the theatre, making these conditions of theirmarriage in its (*) "proviso scene". In this play, a servant disguises himself as his employer's uncle, SirRowland, in order to falsely woo Lady Wishfort. This play begins in a chocolate house and ends withFoible's revelation of Mrs. Marwood's affair, destroying Fainall's blackmail scheme. For 10 points, namethis Restoration comedy that concludes with Millament's imminent marriage to Mirabel, by WilliamCongreve.
The Way of the World
8

96767-)
The speaker of this poem relates how a single wave destroyed a wattle fence he spent half thewinter weaving. In this poem, letting apples rot, sacrificing the best of three kids, and cutting afinger off are considered as options to appease a certain figure. This poem's speaker imaginesfashioning a live bird out of clay, which breaks its leg and begs the speaker to repair it. Thespeaker of this poem continually refers to himself in the (*) third person, but without a pronoun, as inits openings lines: "Will sprawl, now that the heat of day is best, / Flat on his belly in the pit's muchmire". This poem imagines a figure who created the sun and moon due to being "ill at ease", but who issubordinate to a power called "The Quiet", which the speaker learned from his mother, Sycorax. For 10points, name this dramatic monologue by Robert Browning in which a character from The Tempestmeditates upon the nature of the title god.
"Caliban Upon Setebos; or, Natural Theology in the Island"
8

96806-)
An essay by this author discusses Nabokov's bipartite conception of inspiration, vortstorg andvdokhnovenie as part of an analysis of Barthes. In one novel by this author, a character who putson a faux-Brooklyn accent joins a gang of Haitian streetpeddlers. A poetry class ventures to aspoken word venue called The Bus Stop in a novel by her that begins with a motto from HowardsEnd. In another of her works, one of two men who frequent the O'Connell's (*) pub requests to havea portrait of his rebellious ancestor hung on the wall, much to the chagrin of two Jamaican pub regulars.The black conservative Monty Kipps is the archnemesis of Rembrandt expert Howard Belsey in one workby her, while in another, a boy joins an extremist Muslim group called KEVIN that plans to interrupt thepresentation of FutureMouse by Marcus Chalfen. For 10 points, name this contemporary British author ofOn Beauty and White Teeth.
Zadie Smith
8

96827-)
In one story by this author, a character describes how a decapitated head declaring "I'minnocent" put Kaiser Wilhelm I off ordering executions. A character created by this author receivescoded telegrams from Paris, signed "Margot", and delivers a stirring speech on the plight of theChinese worker, leading him to be hired by the Communist party leader, Bayer, before he isblackmailed by his valet, Schmidt. In one of his stories, the depressive Peter has an intense butbickering friendship at a beach resort with (*) Otto Nowak. With an older author, he wrote a versedramain which Michael Ransom climbs the title peak in Ostnia. This author of The Last of Mr. Norriscreated the cabaret singer Sally Bowles, and he co-authored The Ascent of F6 with his mentor and lover,W.H. Auden. For 10 points, name this English author who included the volume Goodbye to Berlin in hisBerlin Stories.
Christopher (William Bradshaw) Isherwood
8

96860-)
Mustafa Sa'eed claims that this character "was a lie" in Season of Migration to the North. This character recalls narrating stories of "men whose heads do grow beneath their shoulders" to a woman who pronounced those tales "passing strange" to deny charges that he employed witchcraft to woo his wife. This character asks, "Do you triumph, Roman?" to a character who narrates his conquest of a prostitute who is unsatisfied by a "minx's token" with a strawberry pattern. This character, whose first gift to his wife was a handkerchief, wounds the play's villain after being driven to murder by the "green-eyed monster," jealousy. For 10 points, name this "Moor of Venice" who suffocates Desdemona in a tragedy by Shakespeare.
Othello
7

96880-)
In one scene, this character claims that he once possessed a heart, but has since hardened into the texture of India-rubber. In the first appearance of this character, he sprains his ankle after his horse slips on some ice. A lightning storm destroys the chestnut tree under which this character proposes to his future wife. This character relates that "happiness is near" to a woman while disguised as a gypsy fortune teller. For a time, it seems as if this character will wed Blanche Ingram. This owner of Thornfield Hall meets his future spouse when he hires her as a governess to take care of his ward, Adele. He employs Grace Poole to keep the insane Bertha Mason under confinement, though Bertha ends up starting a fire that leaves this character blinded. For 10 points, name this Charlotte Bronte character, the love interest of Jane Eyre.
Edward Rochester [accept either name]
7

96894-)
In one poem, this man remarked that "each mortal thing does one thing and the same," which includes "crying what I do is me: for that I came." The speaker of that poem states that "as kingfishers catch fire, dragonflies draw flame." Another poem by this man notes that "as the heart grows colder, it will come to such sights colder" and begins by asking "Margaret, are you grieving?" This author of "Spring and Fall" wrote a poem whose speaker admires "the achieve of; the mastery of" the title creature, who is called "morning's minion" and "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon." Another of this man's poems opens by stating  "Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "Pied Beauty" and "The Windhover."
Gerard Manley Hopkins
7

96932-)
This author's only play is a farce about her great-aunt Julia Margaret Cameron, entitled Freshwater. She wrote a novel in which Ralph Denham proposes to Mary Datchet, who rejects the proposal because she knows he loves Katharine Hilbery. A poet makes the faux pas of asking for a second helping of soup at a dinner party in "The Window," the first section of a novel by this author whose second section is called "Time Passes." In that novel, Lily Briscoe attempts to paint members of the Ramsay family. This author of Night and Day also wrote a novel in which Septimus Smith jumps out of a window, greatly affecting a character who recalls the lovers of her youth, Peter Walsh and Sally Seton. For 10 points, name this author of To the Lighthouse and Mrs Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf
7

96939-)
This novel was adapted into a play by Sarah Ruhl. It begins with the protagonist pretending to decapitate Moors because he is too young to go to war. After losing his lover, the protagonist of this novel holes himself up in a house with 365 rooms and 52 staircases and devotes himself to writing, accompanied by the poet Nicholas Greene. A much-lauded scene from this novel takes place during a fair on the frozen Thames, where the protagonist falls in love with Sasha. Its title character marries the sea captain Marmaduke Bonthrop Shelmerdine, and publishes the long poem The Oak Tree. Its title character, born during Elizabethan times, wakes up from a coma to find he has turned into a woman. For 10 points, name this Virginia Woolf novel.
Orlando: A Biography
7

96955-)
In this play, a friar tries to kill another friar with a club, not realizing that he is already dead. The speaker of this play's prologue says, "I count religion but a childish toy." This play contains the oft-quoted line "Thou hast committed fornication: but that was in another country, and besides, the wench is dead." This play, whose prologue is spoken by Machiavel, is about a character who causes a duel between the governor's son and his friend, leading to the death of both. The title character of this play is assisted by Ithamore in poisoning his daughter Abigail for becoming a nun. The title character of this play has his vast wealth stolen to pay tribute to invading Turks, and hatches an elaborate revenge plot. For 10 points, name this play about Barabas by Christopher Marlowe.
The Jew of Malta
7

96966-)
This poet described a "soft floating witchery of sound" in one poem. The speaker of another poem by this author asks "Is the night chilly and dark?" before answering "The night is chilly, but not dark." The speaker of one of his poems describes "viper thoughts, that coil around my mind" and references the "grand old ballad of Patrick Spence." Another of his poems proclaims "No sound is dissonant which tells of life." This poet of "This Lime-Tree Bower My Prison" and "The Eolian Harp" is best known for a work whose title character orders a structure to be built alongside the river Alph. For 10 points, name this poet of "Dejection: An Ode" and Christabel, who described a character building a "stately pleasure dome" in Xanadu in his unfinished "Kubla Khan."
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
7

96991-)
The narrator of this novel likes referring to Miss Carolina Wilhelmina Amelia Skeggs by her full name. Poems interpolated into the text of this novel include "An Elegy on the Death of a Mad Dog" and "When Lovely Woman Stoops to Folly," the latter of which mirrors the plight of a daughter of the protagonist. At the beginning of this novel, the title character loses his fortune when the merchant who invested his money goes bankrupt and flees town. The protagonist of this novel has two daughters, Olivia and Sophia, the latter of who ends up marrying the benevolent Mr. Burchell, who turns out to be the uncle of the villainous Squire Thornhill. For 10 points, name this novel about Dr. Primrose by Oliver Goldsmith.
The Vicar of Wakefield
7

97001-)
This author wrote about Blore-Smith's search for excitement in the novel Agents and Patients. In this man's most famous work, a character gets sugar poured on him by Barbara Goring at a ball, and is later attacked with paint by the Quiggin twins. That work by this author includes the narrator's first love Jean, the sister of Peter Templer. A mysteriously successful character created by this man has an unsuccessful marriage to Pamela Flitton and dies after joining a cult led by Scorpio Murtlock. Kenneth Widmerpool appears in a 12-volume work by this man which includes novels such as Casanova's Chinese Restaurant and A Question of Upbringing. For 10 points, name this British author of A Dance to the Music of Time.
Anthony Powell [pronounced like "Pole"]
7

97058-)
In one play by this author, the clerk William Falder escapes his parole officer and leaps out a window. One novel by this author of Justice includes characters like Prosper Profond, who falls in love with the wife of Montague Dartie, Winifred. A recurring character created by this author marries Annette, with whom he has a daughter who enters into a loveless marriage with Michael Mont. That character is killed by a falling painting in the "Swan Song" section of A Modern Comedy. That character, who resides at Robin Hill and has a daughter named Fleur, discovers that the architect Philip Bosinney is having an affair with his wife Irene, and appears in novels like In Chancery and The Man of Property. For 10 points, name this British author of the Forsyte Saga.
John Galsworthy
7

97097-)
This author wrote a novel in which the actress Charlie helps Martin Kurtz track down a Palestinian terrorist named Khalil. In another novel by this author, Liz is brought to testify at a tribunal on the pretext that she is being invited to a special meeting of the Communist Party. In that novel, Alec Leamas unwittingly helps take down Fiedler, thinking he is actually helping to take down Mundt, and allows himself to be shot instead of jumping over the Berlin Wall. Peter Guillam appears in that novel, as well as this in author's so-called Karla Trilogy. Another of this author's recurring characters, who works for an organization called "the Circus," is George Smiley. For 10 points, name this author of espionage novels like Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy and The Spy Who Came in from the Cold.
John le CarrÃ© [or David John Moore Cornwell]
7

97122-)
The speaker of one poem by this author remarks that "life to me had less of that fell look it wore" after the sky, the north wind, sickness, and death sequentially talk to him. The speaker of another of his poems shot someone "because he was my foe." Another poem by this poet of "The Subalterns" and "The Man He Killed" ends with images of Stourton Tower, Camelot, and "starlit Stonehenge." The speaker of another of this man's poems wishes for "some vengeful god" to blame for his unhappiness. This poet of "Channel Firing" and "Hap" wrote "consummation comes, and jars two hemispheres" in a poem about the sinking of the Titanic. One of his speakers hears a joyful birdsong against a dreary landscape as he "leant upon a coppice gate." For 10 points, name this author of "The Convergence of the Twain" and "The Darkling Thrush."
Thomas Hardy
7

97137-)
A maid in this play notes that "Fire that's closest kept burns most of all." A comic character in this play reenacts his departure from his family using his shoes to represent his parents. That character takes the blame for urinating in the dining chamber to protect his dog from being beaten. Another character in this play is captured by a band of outlaws, though her one-time suitor Eglamour escapes. In this play, Julia disguises herself as the page Sebastian. Launce and his dog Crab serve one character in this play. At the end of this play, Thurio gives up his engagement to Silvia after a threat from one of the title characters. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy that details the romantic designs of Proteus and Valentine.
The Two Gentlemen of Verona
7

97164-)
According to an essay by this man, novels chiefly serve as conduct manuals for "the young, the ignorant, and the idle." He argued that the line from Hamlet about "whips and scorns of time" should read "quips and scorns of title." In a poem, he called his home city the "needy villain's general home." "His only play, Irene, was a decisive failure. He wrote a poem which asks the reader to "remark each anxious Toil, each eager Strife, and watch the busy scenes of crowded Life." That poem, an imitation of Juvenal's tenth satire, is "The Vanity of Human Wishes." He wrote biographies of Richard Savage and many others, published as Lives of the Most Eminent English Poets. For 10 points, name this author much admired by Boswell, who wrote a famous dictionary.
Dr. Samuel Johnson
7

97183-)
In a poem by this author, "the autumnal evening darkens round" as the speaker heads toward the title location. That poem's speaker is "between two worlds, one dead, the other powerless to be born." The speaker of another poem by this man painfully remembers a single elm tree, which reminds him of the title character. Another of this author's speakers highlights the insufficiency of "the world, which seems to lie before us like a land of dreams," exclaiming "Ah, love, let us be true to one another!" He produced a pastoral elegy for his youthfully-departed friend Arthur Clough. His most famous poem contains the image of a "darkling plain" where "ignorant armies clash by night." For 10 points, name this British poet of "Stanzas from the Grand Chartreuse," "Thyrsis," and "Dover Beach."
Matthew Arnold
7

97205-)
In one poem from this collection, the speaker is compared to "one who sits and gazes from above, over the rivers to the bitter sea." Another poem in this collection describes a "ministering life-angel" with an "appealing look upcast to the white throne of God." One poem in this collection begins "Let the world's sharpness like a clasping knife shut in upon itself and do no harm." The first poem in this collection evokes "how Theocritus had sung of the sweet years." Its most famous poem declares that "if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death." For 10 points, name this poetry collection which includes the lines "call me by my pet name" and "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways," and which was written by Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
Sonnets from the Portuguese
7

97234-)
At the end of the first of this poem's two books, one character is unbound from the four iron pillars that comprise Satan's throne and states that "nature is a vision of the science of the Elohim." Kenzaburo Oe's novel Rouse up O Young Men of the New Age! takes its title from this epic, which begins by comparing the perverted writings of Homer and Ovid to the sublimity of the Bible. Another character in this poem travels around the world as a comet and enters the author's foot to get to Golgonooza, the city of art and imagination. This poem's title character descends to the Earth and is united with the river Ololon, his feminine aspect. The prefatory poem to this epic asks whether a "countenance divine" shone forth "upon our clouded hills" among "these dark satanic mills." This poem begins with the lyric "Jerusalem," which asks whether its title character's "feet in ancient time / walk[ed] upon England's mountains green." For 10 points, name this prophetic book by William Blake titled for an English poet.
Milton, a Poem
9

97326-)
One character in this place notes "the poor world is almost six thousand years old" and that "men have died from time to time and worms have eaten them, but not for love." That character in this place compares the act of having "sold your own lands to see other men's" to having "rich eyes and poor hands." Another character in this location discovers a lioness terrorizing a wayfarer who has a serpent coiling around his neck, who crazily turns out to be his brother. A duke comes to this place and meets a holy hermit, who convinces the duke to take up religious life and return the duchy he usurped from his elder brother. A son of Sir Rowland de Boys carves his lover's name and pins poems praising her onto the trees of this place. In the last scene set at this place, the god Hymen appears to officiate a marriage between Touchstone and Audrey and three other couples. For 10 points, name this grove-like location from As You like It.
Forest of Arden
9

97328-)
The poem that includes this query describes a group of "nearest, dearest kin" who ask "what good will planting flowers produce?" The figure who asks this question is told that a "prodding sly" with whom she was once enemies now thinks that she was "no more worth her hate, and cares not where [she is]." In the first stanza, we learn that this question's asker was once involved with a "loved one" who states "It cannot hurt her now...that I should not be true." Ironically, this query is addressed to a once-loyal character, who states he is doing a certain action "in case I should be hungry when passing on my daily trot." This query titles the final poem in the "Lyrics and Reveries" section of Satires of Circumstance. In response to this query, an animal states "I am sorry, but I quite forgot it was your resting-place" to justify why he is burying his bone. For 10 points, name this question that a now-dead woman asks to her dog in a cynical poem of Thomas Hardy.
"Ah, Are You Digging On My Grave?" [accept "Who is digging on my grave?" or "But some one digs upon my grave"; accept equivalents including "digging on my grave"]
9

97338-)
The second one of these objects has ash smeared on it and features the line "without are dogs and murderers" from the Book of Revelation on one side, and the word "depposed," which is misspelled with two "p's," on the other. The first one of these items is initially owned by a blind fellow who is killed by trampling horses after the narrator guides him to a boarder who has only paid one week worth of his rent. A villain chastises people loyal to George Merry for impiety when they make one of these items from the pages of Dick Johnson's Bible. One of these items induces a stroke in a man who is freeloading off of the Admiral Benbow Inn, which is run by the narrator's family. A map indicating Captain Flint's cache saves a man from the punishment incurred from one of these items, thereby preventing a mutiny against John Silver. For 10 points, name these items that function as a pirate curse in Treasure Island, named for their color.
black spots from Treasure Island
9

97354-)
This author wrote three books attempting to show that Latin, Greek, and Hebrew had Celtic origins, afterthe failure of his plays The Ladies Subscription and Tombo-Chiqui led him to denounce David Garrick fortorpedoing his stage career. This author parodied Mary Wortley Montagu as Bell Travers in his novel Memoirs of a Coxcomb, which came out after his book about a woman who is employed by Mrs. Brownand Mrs. Cole to work with men such as Barville and Charles. That book by him was written while he wasimprisoned at Fleet over a debt and was condemned to be "buried and forgot" after he was put on trial in1749. For 10 points, name this author of a "memoirs of a woman of pleasure" entitled Fanny Hill.
John Cleland
9

97392-)
The protagonist of this novel sneaks into a friend's bedroom and finds him wearing tight pants, ahelmet, and a breastplate. A character in this novel claims that there is a "torturable class" of people, owns acigarette case made of human skin, and is sprayed with water while crashing a birthday dinner. In thisnovel, two characters drive to the Shanghai club and pick up a random stripper after a pilot named Raul iskilled in a car crash. In a climactic scene of this novel, a daschund dies after drinking poisoned whiskey at adinner of the European Trader's Association. To support his Catholic daughter Milly's interest in horseriding, the protagonist takes a job in which he passes off vacuum cleaner schismatics to his boss,Hawthorne. For 10 points, name this novel about James Wormold's misadventures as a spy in Cuba byGraham Greene.
Our Man in Havana
9

97399-)
The speaker of a Richard Wilbur poem about the film version of this novel declares, "It is hard to quarrel/ With a plot so moral". The protagonist of this novel is encouraged to shave his beard off by Colonel Saptand in its epilogue is delivered a rose every year from his former lover by the messenger Fritz. Its hero liesto his sister, Lady Rose Burlesdon, about taking a trip to Tyrol. This novel's protagonist has a long nose,blue eyes and red hair which remind the neighbors of an 18th century scandal in the family but proveshandy when he must stand-in for a man drugged by the Duke of Streslau. Its sequel was titled Rupert ofHentzau. Flavia decides to leave Rasendyll and marry Rudolph the Fifth at this novel's conclusion. For 10points, name this novel by Anthony Hope about a captured King of Ruritania.
The Prisoner of Zenda
9

97430-)
In a play by this author, a condemned man draws a cross on the face of his accuser. In another, aservant relates how his master compared a woman to parmesan cheese and leaves to see a horse with itshead on its rear. A play by this author ends with Lady Katherine being offered a pension and her husband,the title character, refusing to confess despite the advice of a falconer. This author wrote about a womanwho pretends to be sick from eating melons in one play. Later in that play, another woman appears as amasked dancer at her lover's wedding, where she is poisoned by the wine she intended for him. In a play bythis author of Perkin Warbeck, the Cardinal delivers the title line after Giovanni appears with his sister'sheart on a dagger. For 10 points, name this playwright of Tis Pity She's a Whore.
John Ford
9

97438-)
This character contrasts himself with a slave who "Sleeps in Elsyium" and "Doth rise and help Hyperionto his horse." While discussing a person who is "but a man," he says "the violet smells to him as it doth tome." This character claims "It yearns me not if men my garments wear; / Such outward things dwell not inmy desires." After advising "imitate the action of the tiger," he exclaims "the game's afoot!" In a speech,this character imagines names, "familiar in his mouth as household words," that will "be in their flowingcups freshly rememb'red." In that speech, he says "The fewer men, the greater share of honor" andaddresses "We few, we happy few, we band of brothers." For 10 points, name this Shakespearian characterwho delivers the St. Crispin's Day speech before the Battle of Agincourt.
Henry V [or Prince Hal; or Harry; prompt on Henry]
9

97473-)
This poem describes "cloud-towers by ghostly masons wrought" as one of the things imagined by apainter who "cannot see the features right." In this poem, Nature cries "A thousand types are gone: / I carefor nothing." The speaker of this poem stands in "the long unlovely street" in front of a "dark house." Othersections of this poem begin "To sleep I give my powers away" and "I wage not any feud with death." Thispoem, which coined phrases like "ring out the old, ring in the new" and "nature, red in tooth and claw,"begins by addressing the "Strong son of God, immortal Love." For 10 points, name this poem that includesthe lines "'Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all," an elegy for Arthur HenryHallam by Tennyson.
In Memoriam A.H.H.
9

97489-)
In a novel by this author, the protagonist escapes from a mob disguised with a green tunic and turbanthat disappear after he spends the night at a weaver's cottage. This author concluded one poem by declaring,"[I] sing to please myself alone" rather than to please the Maid of Dunedin. This man made his reputationwith a poem where Mary, Queen of Scots returns home titled The Queen's Wake. His most famous novelcontains a puritanical woman named Rabina, who gives birth to the author of a manuscript found in a gravenext to a skull with horns growing out of it. In that novel by this one-time shepherd and author of TheThree Perils of Man, George Colwan is murdered by the serial killer and Calvinist Robert Wringham. For10 points, name this Scottish author of Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner
James Hogg
9

97499-)
A poem by this author includes the lines "A lily of a day, Is fairer far in May" and states that man is notmade better by "growing like a tree / In bulk." He told himself to sing "Safe from the wolf's black jaw andthe dull ass's hoof" in "An Ode to Himself." In another poem, this author wrote that "All Parnasus' greendid wither" and "Pegasus did fly away" after the invention of "the rack of finest wits." The speaker of oneof his poems tells a woman that he sent her "a rosy wreath" that "smells, I swear, / Not of itself, but thee."He wrote "He was not of an age, but for all time!" in an elegy for another poet. This author of "A Fit ofRhyme against Rhyme" addressed "thou child of my right hand" in one poem and asked "Drink to me onlywith thine eyes" in another. For 10 points, name this poet of "On My First Son" and "To Celia."
Ben Jonson
9

97506-)
This author wrote about both Therese of Lisieux and Teresa of Avila in the double biography The Eagleand the Dove. Her most popular biography was of her grandmother, a Spanish-born dancer, and wasentitled Pepita. This author wrote a novel in which an attempt to have an affair with Teresa Spedding failsafter the explorer Leonard Anqetil tries to convince the paramour of Sylvia Roehampton to renounce theestate of Chevron. The elderly Lady Slane attempts to take advantage of the death of her husband inanother novel by this author, which is titled for the last words of Samson Agonistes. This author's longpursuit by Violet Trefusis and open marriage to Harold Nicolson were well-known after her son'sbiography of her, Portrait of a Marriage. For 10 points, name this author of The Edwardians and AllPassion Spent, whose lesbian adventures inspired her lover Virginia Woolf to create the character ofOrlando.
Vita Sackville-West
9

97542-)
One poem by this author describes an unlucky person who moved "through the unheeding many," like a "bright blotupon this gloomy scene," and calls Fear and Hope "twin destinies; who ever weave their shadows, o'er the chasm, sightlessand drear." This poet wrote a sonnet warning mankind that "knowledge must to thee, like the great flflood of Egypt, ever be."A better known poem by this author lists a starved people, an army, religion, and a senate as "graves from which a gloriousPhantom may burst to illumine our tempestuous day," and includes the image of "Rulers who neither see, nor feel, nor know"who cling "leech-like" to "their fainting country . . . Till they drop, blind in blood, without a blow." This poet began one ofhis sonnets with the line "Liftft not the painted veil which those who live call Life," and wrote another that states "an old, mad,blind, despised, and dying king" ruled "England in 1819." In his most famous poem, he described a "wrinkled lip, and sneer ofcold command" belonging to a statue beckoning its viewers to "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" For 10 points,name this Romantic poet who wrote "Ozymandias."
Peter Bysshe Shelley
8

97577-)
A character in a play by this author reminisces about a big poker victory achieved by convincinghimself he had an "invisible straight." This former columnist for The Observer fictionalized the Britishnewspaper industry in a novel about John Dyson. In another novel by this man, a Land Rover crashdestroys a mysterious painting which Martin believed to be a lost creation of Pieter Brueghel. A 2003 playby this man includes Helmut Schmidt and Willy Brandt as characters and dramatizes the Guillaume affair.A play by him discusses an incident which was later labeled an objection to work on nuclear weapons by areal-life participant; that play dramatizes the 1941 meeting between Werner Heisenberg and Nils Bohr inthe title city. He also wrote about alcoholic Selsdon Mowbray and airheaded Brooke Ashton's frustrating ofdirector Lloyd Dallas. For 10 points, name this British playwright of Copenhagen and Noises Off.
Michael Frayn
9

97602-)
After visiting the U.S. Capitol, this man noted that missed attempts at the spittoon were damaging thecarpet in both chambers. After visiting the Perkins Institution, this man wrote about seeing Samuel GridleyHowe's work with Laura Bridgman in a passage which inspired Helen Keller's parents to treat her. Thisman stayed at the Mermaid House while visiting Looking Glass Prairie, part of his journey to St. Louis byboat after his experience viewing slavery in Richmond, of which he wrote scathingly. This man's visit tothe United States was chronicled in his American Notes and took place in 1842 as part of a tour to promoteinternational copyrights. The year before he arrived in America, New Yorkers rioted at a dock importinghis books, demanding to know if Little Nell lived. For 10 points, name this author whose disillusionmentwith America inspired his next book, Martin Chuzzlewit.
Charles Dickens
9

97624-)
Before the protagonist of this novel was born, his mother dreamt that she gave birth to a tennis ball,which Satan, in the guise of her midwife, then knocked out of sight. The hero of this work is almost hangedas a spy by Oakhum for keeping a notebook in Greek. While working for a London apothecary, its herocures the sick prostitute, Miss Williams. The protagonist, who defeats Lord Quiverwit in a duel, meets hisdisguised long-lost father on a trip to South America and his father later buys his family's Scottish estate.In an autobiographical episode, its hero participates in the Battle of Cartegna after being pressed intoservice as a surgeon's mate on the Thunder and goes on to fall in love with Narcissa. For 10 points, namethis picaresque first novel by Tobias Smollett.
The Adventures of Roderick Random
9

97655-)
In this play, a man imitates a hotel's fountain by saying "plop plop plop" until he is interrupted. Afteranswering an unexpected phone call, a character in this play claims that "Madame Duvallon" is unavailablebecause she has left for Madagascar. In this play, two bedroom doors are blocked with sofas after a fight inwhich a woman breaks a record over a man's head. In this play, two characters begin humming along withan orchestra while sitting with their backs to each other on a terrace. The code "Solomon Isaacs," or"Sollocks," is used by those characters, who tiptoe offstage while Victor and Sybil argue at the end of thisplay. For 10 points, name this play by Noel Coward in which the divorced couple Elyot and Amandaencounter each other while honeymooning.
Private Lives
9

97668-)
One poem by this author uses "the shades of girls" and "the gunman and his moll" to describe the title entities, which are "seedless in the light." This author proclaimed "the lips of time leech to the fountain head" in a poem whose title concept "drives [the speaker's] green age." In another poem by this author of "Our Eunuch Dreams", the speaker recalls when he was "green and carefree, famous among the barns," and "sang in [his] chains like the sea," "young and easy under the apple boughs." This author of "The Force that Through the Green Fuse Drives the Flower" wrote of wise men that know that their words "had forked no lightning" in a poem that urges "Rage, rage against the dying of the light". For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of "Fern Hill" and "Do not go gentle into that good night."
Dylan Marlais Thomas
7

97679-)
One character with this profession includes the Reply Churlish and the Lie Circumstantial in his explanation of how he almost quarreled on the "seventh cause". One character with this profession ends a play by singing a song with the refrain "For the rain, it raineth every day". Another of these characters says he would beat a character he calls "nuncle" for becoming old before being wise. One of these poses as Sir Thopas as part of a prank played on Malvolio. Another one of these accompanies Celia and Rosalind into Arden Forest. One of these employed by King Lear joins him in his exile, and mysteriously disappears from the play after Act 3, Scene 6. For 10 points, name this occupation of Touchstone in As You Like It and Feste in Twelfth Night, a common Shakespearean comic character. 
Shakespearean fools [also accept clowns, court jesters, harlequins and other similar answers]
7

97692-)
In one work by this author, a character places flower petals in a basin full of water and pretends that they are boats. In another work by this author, the protagonist clutches a water-can while ecstatically declaring: "she is beneath this roof". In that novel by her, an airplane writes the word "toffee" in the sky and Lady Bruton needs help writing a letter supporting mass emigration to Canada. In one of her novels, a character who is embarrassed by his Australian accent and his banker father kisses Jinny in a bush. Dr. Holmes's visit causes one of her characters to jump out a window. In one novel by her, Rhoda and Neville are among six characters who deliver monologues about their dead friend Percival. In another of her works, Sally Seton and Peter Walsh attend a party at which Septimus Smith's suicide is mentioned. For 10 points, name this English Modernist author of The Waves and Mrs. Dalloway.
(Adeline) Virginia Woolf 
7

97710-)
Samuel Johnson said "Where there is leisure for fiction there is little grief" in his condemnation of this poem. The central event of this poem is described as "killing as the canker to the rose". Its speaker asks for our "frail thoughts" to "dally with false surmise" to "interpose a little ease". This poem calls fame the "last infirmity of noble mind". In this poem, a "two-handed engine" standing ready to smite is described by the Pilot of the Galilean Sea. This poem instructs an angel to "melt with ruth" and to "look homeward". In its opening lines, its speaker presents the image of plucking the berries of myrtle and shattering its leaves. The conclusion of this poem instruct us to "Weep no more" for the title character, who is described as "the Genius of the Shore" and who drowned in the Irish Sea. For 10 points, name this pastoral elegy written for Edward King by John Milton. 
"Lycidas"
7

97725-)
One character in this work has a mouse-trap and beehive attached to his horse, which wears anklets to guard it against shark-bites. One character in this work screams about pricking her finger on a brooch and bandages it before it happens. Like its predecessor, this work was illustrated by John Tenniel. One character in this work explains that it takes all the running one can do to keep in the same place. In a poem in this work, one character declares that "The time has comeÂ…to talk of many things" such as "cabbages and kings" while taking oysters on a walk before eating them. Another poem in this work features the Jubjub bird and the frumious Bandersnatch and sees the title creature slain with a vorpal blade. For 10 points, name this work that includes "The Walrus and the Carpenter" and "The Jabberwock" by Lewis Carroll, the sequel to Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. 
Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There
7

97731-)
While in a garden, this character fantasizes about wearing a "branched velvet gown" and playing with "some rich jewel." He first appears in the fifth scene of Act One, where a woman claims that he is "sick of self-love" and "taste with a distempered appetite." In A Suitable Boy, Kabir is disappointed to be cast as this character, whose final line exclaims "I'll be revenged on the whole pack of you." This character returns a ring by throwing it on the ground and asks, "Do you make an alehouse of my lady's house?" to silence drunkards listening to a song about how "journeys end in lovers meeting." He reads a fake love letter addressed to M, O, A, I that causes him to don cross-gartered yellow stockings, and is imprisoned in a pitch-black cellar as part of his gulling by Feste, Sir Andrew Aguecheek and Sir Toby Belch. For 10 points, name this puritanical steward of Olivia in Twelfth Night.
Malvolio
8

97760-)
In one of this author's novels, George McCaffrey sees a flying saucer after attempting to drown his former professor John Robert Rozanov. Another of this author's novels follows Bradley Pearson, who incriminates himself in Rachel Baffin's murder of her husband Arnold. This author of The Philosopher's Pupil also wrote a novel whose title object is thrown into a lake near Imber Abbey after a nun refuses to disclose an affair. She had a lifelong affair with Philippa Foot, despite being married to John Bayley, and won the Booker Prize for a novel in which Charles Arrowby becomes obsessed with his first love, Mary Fitch. Before writing The Black Prince and The Bell, she began her literary career with a novel about the aspiring author Jake Donaghue. For 10 points, name this 20th century British author of The Sea, The Sea and Under the Net.
Dame Iris Murdoch
8

97774-)
One character in this novel provides comic relief by flinging cucumbers and vegetable marrows into the garden of a widow he wishes to court. The sixth chapter of this novel includes the episodic tales "The Five Sisters of York" and "The Baron of Grogzwig." One character in this novel finds work with the milliner Mrs. Mantalini and rebuffs the advances of the lecherous Mulberry Hawk. The benevolent Cheeryable brothers assist this novel's main character, who briefly joins the acting troupe of Vincent Crummles. Another of its characters, Arthur Gride, conspires to marry Madeline Bray, although she ends up marrying the title character instead. This novel's title character provides for his sister Kate and liberates his best friend Smike from the brutal Dotheboys Hall boarding school. For 10 points, name this novel by Charles Dickens whose title character overcomes his evil uncle Ralph and Wackford Squeers.
The Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby
8

97808-)
The last of these poems suggests that we "cannot restore old policies or follow an antique drum" before claiming that the dead "accept the constitution of silence." That poem compares attachment, detachment, and indifference to roses in a thornbush and ends by claiming that "all manner of thing shall be well" when "the fire and the rose are one." Another of these poems suggests that life is meaningful if we nourish "the life of significant soil" and declares "there are only hints and guesses / hints followed by guesses." The third of them begins by comparing a river to "a strong brown god," while the second one repeats the line "In my beginning is my end." The first of these poems is named for a manor in Gloucestershire, and grew out of a deleted passage from its author's play Murder in the Cathedral. For 10 points, name this cycle of poems by T. S. Eliot which includes "The Dry Salvages," "Little Gidding," and "Burnt Norton."
Four Quartets [accept "Little Gidding" before "significant soil"]
8

97822-)
One character in this play repeats the phrase "Because I believe that the world..." only to trail off into silence three times, and then asks another character to blow into his mouth. In the third act of this play, a previously unshaven and disheveled character enters clean-shaven and wearing a dark suit, and is warned "don't let them tell you what to do!" In its second act, its main character is peppered with questions such as "What about the Albigensenist heresy?" and "Why did the chicken cross the road?" until he crouches in his chair and screams. This play's protagonist is given a toy drum at the end of its first act, and later beats it before attempting to rape Lulu in a game of Blind Man's Buff. This play is set at the seaside boarding house of Petey and Meg Boles, which is invaded by the sinister Goldberg and McCann. For 10 points, name this play by Harold Pinter in which Stanley Webber is abducted after the title celebration.
The Birthday Party
8

97903-)
This book proposes installing members of Bedlam in prominent positions because all military conquests, philosophical systems, and new religions are caused by madness. It satirizes a certain group as the Aeolists, who worship the winds and preach by belching. This book's introduction distinguishes between the three "oratorical machines" of the Pulpit, the Ladder, and the Stage-Itinerant, following its dedication to "Prince Posterity." Narrated by a hack writer who intersperses the plot with "A digression in the Modern kind" and "A digression in praise of digressions," its main story describes a series of alterations to a will which represents the Bible. Named for an object thrown over a ship to distract a whale, it was published along with "The Battle of the Books." For 10 points, name this book which parodies religious abuses among the three brothers Peter, Martin, and Jack, a satire by Jonathan Swift.
A Tale of a Tub
8

97957-)
This poem compares a woman's voice to "the voice the stars had when they sang together" after that woman sees "time like a pulse shake fierce through all the worlds." One character in this poem imagines lying in the shadow of the "living mystic tree" before meeting "Cecily, Gertrude, Magdalen, Margaret, and Rosalys," the five handmaidens of "the lady Mary." In this poem's final stanza, the central character lays her face between her hands and weeps, causing the speaker, in parentheses, to respond "I heard her tears." Its main character stands on "the rampart of God's house" and holds "three lilies in her hand," and thinks of reuniting with her lover in the afterlife. This poem is named for a woman who "lean'd out from the gold bar of heaven." For 10 points, name this poem about a grieving angel by Dante Gabriel Rossetti.
"The Blessed Damozel"
8

97976-)
In this play's first scene, one character describes some fried bread as "succulent". Another character in this play reminisces about his Uncle Barney and starts strangling a companion for calling him "Simey". In this play, repeated references are made to a van that will pull up carrying a wheelbarrow. The main character in this play is asked a series of questions including "Is the number 846 possible or necessary?". Because he cannot be a pianist, the main character is given a drum, which he beats at the end of the first act. In its second act, the main character sexually assaults Lulu during a game of Blind Man's Bluff. Meg Boles arranges the central event for her tenant Stanley Webber. For 10 points, name this Harold Pinter play in which Goldberg and McCann crash the title celebration.
The Birthday Party
7

98008-)
These things appear in the title of a poem in which "Rachel nÃ©e Rabinovitch / Tears at the grapes with murderous paws" while another character "spreads his knees / Letting his arms hang down to laugh". In that poem, these creatures "let their liquid droppings fall / To Stain the stiff dishonoured shroud", while near "The Convent of the Sacred Heart". In another poem, the speaker claims that this creature has never known a place "where but to think is to be full of sorrow". In that poem about this creature, the speaker wishes "for a beaker full of the warm South" and calls this animal "not born for death". That poem about this creature ends with the question "do I wake or sleep?". For 10 points, name this animal among which T.S. Eliot's Sweeney finds himself and to which Keats wrote an ode. 
nightingales [prompt on "birds"]
7

98030-)
This character is annoyed that her future husband calls her Demeter and Artemis. Her wedding day is marred by the bad omen of a cock crowing in the afternoon. This character finds a group of pheasants wounded in a hunt, and breaks their necks out of mercy. When this character falls asleep while driving, her family's horse, Prince, is killed in a collision with a mail-cart. While sleepwalking, this character's husband carries her to an abbey and lays her in a coffin. A murder she commits causes a heart-shaped bloodstain to spread on the ceiling of Mrs. Brooks's room. This character works with Retty and Izz as a milkmaid for Dairyman Crick. She bears a child named Sorrow from an affair with Alec, and her marriage to Angel Clare is ruptured by her status as a fallen woman. For 10 points, name this title heroine of a Thomas Hardy novel.  
Tess Durbeyfield [or Tess of the D'Urbervilles]
7

98039-)
The demise of one character in this novel is inferred from a chess club roster, and another character in this novel is arrested for talking in his sleep. Another character in this novel is "only a rebel from the waist downwards" and is a member of the Junior Anti-Sex League. The protagonist's friend Syme works on the 11th edition of the Newspeak dictionary before becoming an unperson. For 10 points, Ministry of Truth employee Winston Smith is the protagonist of what dystopian novel by George Orwell?
1984
6

98106-)
One character in this novel is chastised for serving a lunch of bread and cheese as a replacement for burnt porridge. Another character in this novel has a dream in which a woman snatches off her bridal veil, places it on her own head, rends it, and tramples it. In this novel, a male character disguises himself as a gypsy woman and tells fortunes for his future wife and for Blanche Ingram. The protagonist of this novel is educated at a school run by Mr. Brocklehurst, where she meets Helen Burns, before St. John [pronounced "sin - jin"] Rivers proposes to her to join him as a missionary in India. The title character's first wedding is called off when it is revealed that the master of Thornfield Hall is secretly married to Bertha Mason. For 10 points, name this novel about the title governess who marries Edward Rochester, by Charlotte BrontÃ«.
Jane Eyre
7

98118-)
One character in this novel suggests a vote on whether or not there are ghosts. By the end of this novel, Percival Wemys Madison is unable to remember his own name. Earlier in this novel, some characters wearing black caps are admonished for letting a fire go out. That fire had been started as a signal using a pair of glasses, whose owner is killed by Roger with a boulder after Jack seizes power from the conch-wielding protagonist. For 10 points, Piggy and Ralph are stranded on an island in what novel by William Golding?
Lord of the Flies
6

98131-)
In this author's last completed novel, Louisa marries a man she met while recovering from a fall, leaving the protagonist to marry Captain Wentworth. In another novel by this author, the protagonist rejects a marriage proposal from Mr. Collins, and Lydia runs off with Mr. Wickham. The first attempted novel by this author shares its name with two characters who are pushed from their home by Fanny and John Dashwood in a later work. For ten points, name this author of Persuasion, Sense and Sensibility, and Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen
6

98134-)
To explain his wife's sore throat, one character in this play recalls an Englishman from Phillipopolis who washed himself with cold water daily. At the beginning of this play, a male character tells the female protagonist that a cloak is a better weapon than a pistol after climbing a drainpipe into her room. That character states he must return home because he has to manage the hotels he inherits from his father. In this play, the servant-girl Louka pretends to be engaged to Nicola. The male protagonist of this play claims not to have received a portrait inscribed "to my chocolate cream soldier" from the main female, who was engaged to Sergius Saranoff. For 10 points, name this work that ends with Raina Petkoff professing her love for the Swiss Captain Bluntschli, a play by George Bernard Shaw with a title from Virgil.
Arms and the Man
7

98165-)
The speaker of one of these poems is described as a "A poor, tired, wandering singer,  singing through / the dark and leaning up a cypress tree". One of these poems describes "A place to stand and love in for a day, / With darkness and the death-hour rounding it". The speaker urges: "Gather the north flowers to complete the south / And catch the early love up in the late" in one of these poems. One of these declares: "If thou must love me, let it be for naught / Except for love's sake only". Another of these begins: "I thought once how Theocritus had sung / Of the sweet years", and another begins: "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways" . For 10 points, name this collection of poems by Elizabeth Barrett Browning whose title maintains the pretense that they are translations. 
Sonnets from the Portuguese
7

98179-)
One character created by this author uses a piece of wire to take a meat-bone from a mongrel, promises to himself that he will leave some meat for the dog, but then picks the bone clean. One of his characters is warned not to be at her usual milk bar when a bicycle bomb goes off in a town square as part of a scheme hatched with General ThÃ© ["tay"]. In that work by him, books such as The Challenge to Democracy and The Role of the West by York Harding inspire a man who vies for the hand of the Vietnamese girl Phuong with the journalist Thomas Fowler. That title character is Alden Pyle. In another of this man's works, a mestizo is walked across the border by the "whiskey priest." For 10 points, name this British author of The Quiet American and The Power and the Glory.
(Henry) Graham Greene
7

98207-)
In one soliloquy, this character declares "I'll drown more sailors than the mermaid shall; / I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk". In that speech, this character says: "Why, I can smile, and murder whiles I smile". In one speech, this character describes "grim-visaged war" capering "nimbly in a lady's chamber / To the lascivious pleasing of a lute". A series of ghosts tell this character to "Despair and die!" in one play. This character asks "Was ever woman in this humour won?" after wooing Lady Anne Neville while standing by the coffin of her husband. He orders the death of his brother Clarence, who is drowned in a vat of wine. He perishes declaring "A horse, a horse! My kingdom for a horse!". For 10 points, name this character who opens his namesake play with the lines "Now is the winter of our discontent / Made glorious summer by this son of York".  
Richard III [accept Richard Plantagenet, Duke of Gloucester; also accept Richard Plantagenet, Duke of York; prompt on "Richard"] 
7

98232-)
While riding in a car, the narrator of this novel dreams that her husband brushes a woman's hair into a thick snakelike rope and puts it around his neck. This novel is mainly set in a location lined by enormous blood-red rhododendrons. Near the end of this novel, its main characters visit Dr. Baker, who reveals that a woman who came to him was suffering from inoperable cancer, satisfying Colonel Julyan's investigation. Its narrator nearly commits suicide until rockets fire over a cove, announcing the discovery of a dead woman who cheated on her husband with Jack Favell. In a key scene, its narrator shocks the guests at a costume ball by wearing a dress specially ordered by Mrs. Danvers, who is devoted to the memory of the title character. It begins with the line "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again." For 10 points, name this novel about the dead wife of Maxim de Winter, written by Daphne du Maurier.
Rebecca
8

98241-)
A group of characters in this novel go on an expedition to the nonexistent town of Laku. Its protagonist prays for a deus ex machina right before Mr. Baldwin parachutes down from the sky and helps him, and falls in love with Katchen, a German girl who sells him a bag of stones for twenty pounds. Its third section is named for a banquet where its main character, who was possibly based on Bill Deedes, is mistaken for his Uncle Theodore. In its first section, a writer`whose lines include "feather-footed through the plashy fen passes the questing vole" travels to Jacksonburg after Mr. Salter misunderstands a command from Lord Copper. This novel depicts the rivalry between The Daily Brute and The Daily Beast, which sends William Boot to report on the African country of Ishmaelia. For 10 points, name this satire about sensationalist journalism written by Evelyn Waugh.
Scoop
8

98268-)
This poet described a "grief without a pang, void, dark, and drear" and wrote that "My genial spirits fall" in "Dejection: An Ode." This man also wrote "Frost at Midnight," as well as a poem whose title character "stoppeth one of three." Another of his title characters is an emperor who decrees a "stately pleasure dome" in Xanadu. He wrote the lines "Water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink" in a poem that describes the shooting of an albatross. For 10 points, name this poet of "Kubla Khan" and "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner."
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
6

98283-)
One character in this play is told that "the fault...is not in our stars, but in ourselves." Another character in this play refuses a crown three times at the feast of Lupercal. Later in this play, Cinna the poet is murdered on the way to a funeral. Another character exclaims "let slip the dogs of war" before delivering a speech beginning "Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears." For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play whose protagonist kills himself after a loss in battle at Philippi and is asked by the title character, "Et tu, Brute?"
v
6

98316-)
This character's foster father died of grief after one of his sons killed another in a hunting accident. This former ward of King Hrethel gives his gold collar to his most faithful companion, Wiglaf, before dying of his wounds. Earlier, he is mocked by Unferth for having lost to Breca in a swimming contest. This "great Geat" repays a debt to a Danish king by protecting the mead-hall Heorot. For 10 points, name this title character of an Old English poem who helps King Hrothgar by killing Grendel.
Beowulf
6

98327-)
The speaker of one poem in this collection considers his similarities with an ancient Roman after noting that "on Wenlock Edge the wood's in trouble." Another poem in this collection imagines a conversation between a man who "cheers a dead man's sweetheart" and the dead man himself, who asks "Is my team ploughing?" The speaker reminisces about "the time you won your town the race" in a poem that addresses "an athlete dying young." For 10 points, name this poetry collection by A.E. Housman, about doomed and melancholy youths in the title English county.
A Shropshire Lad
6

98344-)
This poet compared himself to "stout Cortez, when with eagle eyes he stared into the Pacific" in a poem about reading a translation of a Greek epic. The speaker of another poem tells the addressee that "When old age shall this generation waste, Thou shalt remain." This author of "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" ended "Beauty is truth, truth beautyÂ—that is all Ye know on earth, and all ye need to know" in a poem addressed to an antique vessel. For 10 points, name this Romantic poet who wrote "Ode to Melancholy" and "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
John Keats
6

98369-)
In one of this author's plays, the protagonist causes horns to grow from a knight's head for doubting his powers. The ghost of Machiavelli introduces another of this author's plays, whose title character falls in the boiling cauldron he intended to use to kill a prince. He's not Goethe, but the protagonist of a play by this man asks, "Was this the face that launch'd a thousand ships?" after summoning a vision of Helen of Troy; that character offers his soul to Mephistophilis in exchange for knowledge. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
Christopher Marlowe
6

98386-)
This work's line "Wolves shall succeed for teachers" is a jab at the Catholic Church. A character in this work says that he "who overcomes by force hath overcome but half his foe." At the end of this work, two characters take their "solitary way" and have the world "all before them." This poem's opening announces that it will pursue "things unattempted yet in Prose or Rhyme" and will "justify the ways of God to man." For 10 points, name this English epic in which Satan sneaks into Eden and corrupts mankind, a work by John Milton.
Paradise Lost
6

98393-)
This character is mocked for calling certain playing cards "jacks" instead of "knaves" while visiting Satis House. He is apprenticed to his brother-in-law, whose catchphrase is "What larks!"; that character, Joe, is a blacksmith, which is why this character is nicknamed "Handel" by Herbert Pocket. This protagonist of a Dickens novel finds out that his mysterious benefactor is the convict Abel Magwitch, not Miss Havisham. For 10 points, name this narrator of Great Expectations.
Philip Pirrip [accept either underlined part; or Pip]
6

98397-)
One of this author's characters sells his slave Xury to a Portuguese sailor. The title character of another of his novels learns that her husband in Virginia is actually her brother and then moves back to England, where she has an affair with a married man and then marries two other men. One of this author's characters keeps track of dates by making notches on a Cross and discovers that his island is inhabited by cannibals. For 10 points, name this author of Moll Flanders who also wrote about Friday in Robinson Crusoe.
Daniel Defoe
6

98411-)
When one character in this novel suggests that it might rain tomorrow, her husband's troubling response is "damn you." That husband reads Walter Scott's The Antiquary to prove Charles Tansley wrong. Another character, who is described as having a puckered face and Chinese eyes, is interrupted while painting a portrait by recitations of The Charge of the Light Brigade. Andrew dies in war and Prue dies in childbirth in this novel, but Cam and James sail with their father as Lily Briscoe finishes her painting. For 10 points, name this novel about the Ramsay family by Virginia Woolf.
To the Lighthouse
6

98420-)
According to Harold Bloom, this character is "lovable, loving, and greatly loved." This character claims to have been betrayed by the little dogs Tray, Blanch, and Sweetheart. He claims he is "more sinned against than sinning" and commands winds to blow harder against himself. This character says "Nothing will come of nothing" while soliciting a declaration of love from his youngest child. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare character who is attended by Kent and a Fool as he goes mad on a heath, and who is the father of Regan, Goneril, and Cordelia.
King Lear
6

98446-)
One story in this book tells of a girl named Sophie who is mortally wounded in five places before Prudence convinces her husband, Melibee, to forgive the attackers; that story in this book has the same narrator as a story about a knight who prepares to battle Sir Olifaunt to win the elf-queen. One of the characters in this book wears a brooch inscribed with the Latin "Amor vincit Omnia" and is named (*) Madame Eglentyne, while another character is a red-haired man with a large wart on his nose who likes dirty jokes. A story in this book tells of Pertelote who is loved by the rooster Chanticleer, and it begins by describing a group of people departing from the Tabard Inn to visit the shrine of Thomas a Becket. For 10 points, name this book that includes stories told by a Reeve, a Merchant, and the Wife of Bath, written by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales
7

98465-)
This author wrote a sonnet that ends, "I am the long world's gentleman, he said, And share my bedwith Capricorn and Cancer." Another poem by this author says, "I am dumb to tell the crooked rose," afterdescribing a phenomenon "that blasts the roots of trees" and "Is my destroyer." This poet of the sonnetsin "Altarwise by owl-light" also wrote a work that ends by saying, "I sang in my chains like the sea," eventhough "Time held me (*) green and dying." This author of Deaths and Entrances wrote of a time when he "wasyoung and easy under the apple boughs" in one poem, and he also stated, "Old age should burn and rave at close ofday." For 10 points, name this poet of "Fern Hill" who wrote, "Rage, rage against the dying of the light" in his "DoNot Go Gentle into That Good Night."
Dylan Marlais Thomas
7

98479-)
This book includes an abridged version of the dialogue Hermotimus in a chapter about a visit to Lucian of Samosata. The protagonist of this novel grows up in the estate White-Nights, and is later impressed by a lecture on morals delivered by Fronto. The fourth and final section of this novel is partially set at a peaceful villa run by Cecilia, and ends with its main character sacrificing himself to save his friend Cornelius. The protagonist of this novel has a spiritual epiphany at the Sabine Hills, presaging his attraction to Christianity. As a youth, its main character delights in reading The Golden Ass alongside Flavian, and becomes a Stoic while serving as an attendant to Marcus Aurelius. First published in 1885, it focuses on the maturation of the title sensitive Roman. For 10 points, name this philosophical novel by Walter Pater.
Marius the Epicurean: His Sensations and Ideas
8

98486-)
In this place, one character is shown a griffin pulling a chariot, which is attacked by an eagle and sprouts seven grotesque heads before a giant drives it into a forest. This place contains starving men whose sunken eyes and cheekbones seem to spell out the word "OMO." The narrator has three dreams in this place, including one about a hideous woman who transforms into a siren and one about Rachel and Leah. Matelda prepares a character to leave this place by guiding him to the rivers of Eunoe and Lethe. Oderisi da Gubbio gives a speech about fame in this place, which also contains envious people whose eyes are sewn shut and proud people burdened by massive stones on their backs. This place is divided into seven terraces, and is the only landmass in the Southern hemisphere. For 10 points, name this mountain where souls perform penance for their sins in Dante's Divine Comedy.
Purgatorio [or Purgatory]
8

98510-)
In this novel, an Oxford student is told to give 5,000 pounds of another character's money to a man whorefuses the check and is subsequently evicted from his apartment. A woman who is at first thought to bementally ill is revealed to be pregnant instead when she returns to London to see her pneumonic Aunt Juley.In another scene from this novel, Dolly brings news that a woman (*) willed her house to a woman of anotherfamily, but Dolly's husband decides not to execute the handwritten will; that male character reports a heart attack tothe police after he beats a man with the flat of a German sword, which causes him to fall into a bookshelf and die. Inthis novel, Charles is sentenced to three years in jail for the manslaughter of Leonard Bast. For 10 points, name thisnovel, about the Wilcoxes' title estate that is finally granted to Margaret Schlegel, written by E. M. Forster.
Howards End
7

98535-)
This poem's speaker mentally inserts the words "the mouthful of bread" when his "good fat father" asks "will you renounce?"Earlier, its speaker states "take away love, and our earth is a tomb!" in between quotations of a folk song that goes"flower o' the broom... flower o' the quince." This poem compares a woman to "the prior's niece who comes / To care abouthis asthma," and discusses how that woman complicates the title character's dictate to "make them forget there's such a thingas fresh." The speaker of this poem descended a ladder to escape from his room, and, in a departure from historical accuracy,taught "Hulking Tom." Its speaker chases "three slim shapes," and lists "a skull and bones, two bits of stick nailed crosswise,"and "a bell to chime the hour with" as alternatives a.er asking "what need of art at all?" This poem's drunk title characterrepeats the swear word "zooks!" as he is interrogated by guards employed by "Master Cosimo." This poem is about the titlemonk's struggle to "paint the souls of men." For 10 points, name this poem about a Renaissance artist, a dramatic monologueby Robert Browning.
"Fra Lippo Lippi"
8

98565-)
This poet wrote of a happy man who is "Content to breathe his native air" in his "Ode on Solitude," and he wrote a poem that says, "share thy pain, allow that sad relief; / Ah, more than share it! give me all thy grief" in order to "speed the soft intercourse from soul to soul" before ending with the line "He best can paint 'em, who shall feel 'em most." The lines "can Sporus feel? / Who breaks a Butterfly upon a Wheel?" were written by this author who began a poem by addressing (*) "Henry St. John, Lord Bolingbroke," and ended one part of that poem by writing "Whatever is, is right." This poet of "Eloisa to Abelard" and "Epistle to Dr Arbuthnot" also wrote a mock-epic about Lord Petre cutting off Arabella Fermor's hair. For 10 points, name this poet of "An Essay on Man" and The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope
7

98584-)
In this novel, Miss Scratcherd hangs a pasteboard labeled "Slattern" around a character's neck. That character had been reading a copy of Rasselas when she met this novel's protagonist. The man whom this novel's protagonist eventually marries invited the Eshtons and the Lynns as his guests and earlier had affairs with Clara and Celine Varens. This novel's heroine was bullied by Georgiana and Eliza, but the death of an uncle from Madeira allows her and her cousins, the Rivers, to live comfortably. Richard Mason is stabbed and bitten by his crazy sister, who had been guarded by Grace Poole and confined to the attic before being revealed to be the ex-wife of Mr. Rochester. For 10 points, name this novel about a governess, by Charlotte Bronte.
Jane Eyre
7

98604-)
This novel's protagonist's father advises him to always wear a tall hat on Sundays, and confuses Mr. Jorkins by mistaking him for an American. The protagonist of this novel is chastised for hanging out with a "bad set" that includes an aesthete with a self-taught stutter, Anthony Blanche, by his Cousin Jasper. Mr. Samgrass is unable to keep tabs on a character in this novel who ends up in Morocco, taking care of Kurt. That character's father lives in Venice with his mistress Cara, because his wife refuses to divorce him. Her strong Catholicism is shared by her daughter, Cordelia. For 10 points, Sebastian Flyte descends into alcoholism while his sister Julia has an ill-fated affair with painter Charles Ryder in what novel named for the Marchmain estate by Evelyn Waugh?
Brideshead Revisited
7

98618-)
At one point in this poem, the speaker describes a procession whose last member, a "frail Form" and "phantom among men," bears a mark on is brow "like Cain's or Christ's." That stranger does not respond when asked "Who art thou?" by Urania, who earlier in the poem is repeatedly invoked as the "most musical of mourners." Toward the end of this poem, the speaker urges the reader to go to Rome to visit the "slope of green access" where the title figure is buried. This poem's speaker describes life as "a dome of many-colored glass" that "stains the white radiance of Eternity," and it ends with the image of the soul of the title figure, which "beacons from the abode where the Eternal are." For 10 points, name this long elegy for John Keats, written by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
"Adonais"
7

98645-)
12.	In one poem, this author describes writing his lady's name in the sand, only to see it continually wash away, upon which she chastises, "Vain manÂ…that dost in vain assay / A mortal thing so to immortalize." The first poem in the same collection by him imagines his lady's "lilly hands" handling the pages of his poems, and that sonnet sequence was first published alongside his "Epithalamion." In another work, the central character of Book I meets Duessa after being separated from the lady who has enlisted him to fight a dragon who has imprisoned her parents. That book ends with the wedding of Una and the Redcrosse Knight, and the work's title character, Gloriana, represented Elizabeth I. For 10 points, name this English poet of the sonnet cycle Amoretti and the allegorical epic The Faerie Queene.
Edmund Spenser
7

98654-)
A few lines from this work were cannibalized from its poet's earlier work, "Death of St. Narcissus." One character is a "typist home at teatime" who meets with her lover, then "puts a record on the gramaphone." In this work, some pills a woman took "to bring it off" made her teeth fall out, and Alfred gives her money for dentures. This work describes a figure who was "once tall and handsome as you," a drowned Phoenician sailor named Phlebas with pearls for eyes mentioned earlier by the "wisest woman in Europe," Madame Sosostris, who issues the warning "Fear death by water." For 10 points, this is what five-part work whose first part, "The Burial of the Dead," begins "April is the cruelest month" and was written by T.S. Eliot?
The Waste Land
7

98662-)
One figure described in this speech is said to be "Sighing like a furnace, with a woeful ballad Made to hismistress' eyebrow." That lover had earlier been "creeping like a snail Unwillingly to school" with "his satchelAnd shining morning face." This speech is given after a man interrupts a meal with his sword drawn anddemands food; that character, (*) Orlando, is welcomed to the table by Duke Senior who says, "we are not allalone unhappy," before this speech is given. This speech begins by describing "the infant, Mewling and puking inthe nurse's arms" and ends by describing a "second childishness and mere oblivion" without teeth, eyes, taste, andfinally, "sans everything." For 10 points, name this speech given by the Melancholy Jaques in Shakespeare's As YouLike It, which begins with a metaphor about life as a certain place "And all the men and women merely players."
the Seven Ages of Man speech [or the "All the world's a stage" speech; accept Jacques's speech before "Jaques" is mentioned]
7

98686-)
In this play, a man is interrupted by guests he has just let into his home as he tries several times to tell a story about the Duke of Marlborough summoning a garrison of 5,000 men. Another character in this work wonders if she looks like Cherry from The Beaux' Strategem after changing a dress and speaking to her maid. One character in this work explains that he funds his trips to the alehouse by stealing from his mother, the same way that he steals a casket of (*) jewels, and a female character learns that a man, who stuttered and failed to complete his sentences during an earlier scene, confused her for a barmaid.  Two men in this work are fooled at the Three Pigeons bar by a man who is almost forcibly married to Constance Neville, named Tony Lumpkin. For 10 points, name this play in which Charles Marlow falls in love with Kate Hardcastle, written by Oliver Goldsmith.
She Stoops to Conquer
7

98701-)
The protagonist of this novel reads a fragment about a notary who draws up the last will of a dying gentleman, and learns that his servant used the rest of the story to wrap up a bouquet. Near the beginning of this novel, its narrator refuses to give charity to a Franciscan monk, but makes amends by exchanging snuff-boxes with him. In later episodes, the narrator tries to free a caged starling which repeats the words "I can't get out," and feels the pulse of a beautiful grisette in a glove shop. In its final section, which takes place at an inn in Moulines, the narrative abruptly breaks off after the protagonist reaches out in a dark room and accidentally touches a chambermaid's buttocks. It was first published in 1768, the same year of its author's death, and is narrated by its author's stand-in Yorick. For 10 points, name this fictional account of a trip to France and Italy, written by Laurence Sterne.
 A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italy
8

98728-)
One character in this novel tells the story of his father, who married up into the Lapith family when he blackmailed Georgiana after discovering her secret eating. An entire household of dwarfs once occupied this work's central locale, but died out after Hercules and Filomena committed suicide. During a bank holiday fair in this work, Mr. Scrogan describes himself as an attractive girl's destined virginity-taker while he is in the guise of the seer Madame Sosostris. The deaf girl Jenny secretly draws devastating caricatures of this work's characters. In this novel, Ivor walks across the eves of a house to seduce a girl who fears sexual repression has led her to dream of climbing up ladders. This work's protagonist lusts after Anne and is insanely jealous of the painter Gombauld. For 10 points, name this work centered on Denis Stone and set at the Wimbush estate, Aldous Huxley's first novel.
Crome Yellow
9

98738-)
One novel by this author sees the title character fall for Nugent after Nugent's twin brother suffers an elliptic fit which discolors his skin. This author of Poor Miss Finch described the problems that Norah and Magdelan Vanstone face after their parents, who had secretly married a few weeks before on a trip to London, die and have their wills invalidated. He wrote a novel starring two identically-named cousins, one of whom adopts the alias "Ozias Midwinter". Another of his works sees Sir Percival Glyde marry Laura Fairlie, whose identity is switched with that of Anne Catherick, a situation investigated by Walter Hartright and Marian Halcombe. In the best known novel by this author of Armadale and No Name, Sergeant Cuff leads an investigation and three Hindus dressed as jugglers crash a birthday party thrown for Rachel Verinder. For 10 points, name this author of The Woman in White and The Moonstone.
Wilkie Collins [or William Wilkie Collins]
9

98740-)
In one work by this man, the speaker asks "what powers and instincts animate and betray and do their dreamwork in me?" and claims to be "that fantasy which race has wrought of mundane chance-material." Another poem by this author of "Microcosmos" describes how "the sentry keeps his watch where no one stirs but the brown rats, the nimble scavengers." He wrote a poem about "a simple soldier boy" whose speaker advises readers to "pray you'll never know the hell where youth and laughter go". This author of "Golgotha" titled one of his collections for a poem that describes a "yawning soldier" wondering "when the Allemands would get busy", who is there when an officer shouts "O Christ, they're coming at us!" He wrote The Old Huntsman while at the Craiglockhart Hospital with his contemporary Wilfred Owen. For 10 points, identify this British author whose poem "Suicide in the Trenches" is included in his collection "Counter-attack".
Siegfried Loraine Sassoon
9

98759-)
One unusually stationary character in this novel compares life to the spinning wheel at Luna Park, and claims humanity is divided between "static and dynamic." That character, Otto Silenus, is an architect for the protagonist's one-time fiancee, who marries the minister of transportation to become Lady Metroland. The protagonist spends some time at a prison run by the reform-minded Sir Lucas-Dockery, whose leniency towards a lunatic carpenter leads to the death of Mr. Prendergast. Prendergast had taught with Captain Grimes and the protagonist at Llanabba Castle, where the protagonist had taken a job after a prank by the Bollinger Club at Scone College led to his running across the quad without his trousers. For 10 points, name this book about the misadventures of Paul Pennyfeather, the first novel of Evelyn Waugh.
Decline and Fall
9

98766-)
In one of this author's novels, a character gets her hand harpooned to the sea floor but is saved by the narrator. In another of this man's books, Smirgel has information on the whereabouts of treasure that is sought by Lord Galen. This man also wrote of Blandford's handicapping by friendly fire and Livia's loss of an eye and subsequent suicide in another work. The narrator of one of this man's novels hesitantly attends a duck hunting party where another character is shot. That character, Capodistria, raped another character in her childhood. This man wrote the novel Quinx as the finale to his Avignon Quintet. This man wrote of Melissa and Justine who are just two of Darley's love interests in the books Justine, Balthazar, Mountolive, and Clea. For 10 points, identify this author of The Alexandria Quartet.
Lawrence George Durrell
9

98793-)
In this novel, Lurgan tries to convince the protagonist that a water jug is magically reforming, after which he teaches the protagonist to count jewels. This novel's protagonist works for Colonel Creighton, who tells him a password that includes the phrase "look for tarkeean." This novel's title character is addressed as "Friend of All the World" by his horse-dealing friend. One character in this novel is the fat and obsequious Hurree Babu, who nominally works for the Ethnological Survey. Early in this novel, the title character shares his father's prophecy that a red bull on a green field and 900 devils will come for him. This novel opens near the great gun Zam-Zammah, where the title friend of Mahbub Ali becomes the chela of a lama who seeks the river into which Buddha fired an arrow. For 10 points, name this novel about an Irish orphan who becomes a spy in India's "Great Game," written by Rudyard Kipling.
Kim
9

98803-)
One character in this play writes an anonymous letter to herself, accusing her beloved of pursuing another woman, to give herself a reason to quarrel with him. Another character in this play has her servant Lucy deliver love letters signed "Delia". Julia's lover in this play is always troubled by the thought of her being unhappy, but even more troubled at her being happy without him, and is named Faulkland. Bob Acres is goaded into challenging the protagonist to a duel by Lucius O'Trigger. One character tells another to "illiterate" someone from her memory and speaks of the importance of "reprehending" what we say, a type of error now named for her. For 10 points, Captain Jack Absolute pretends to be Ensign Beverley to woo Lydia Languish in what play featuring Mrs. Malaprop, by Richard Brinsley Sheridan?
The Rivals
7

98826-)
This character spends part of the novel living with the widow Mrs. Brandley in Richmond. During a game of "Beggar My Neighbor", this character mocks the narrator for calling knaves "jacks" and for his coarse hands. In the original ending of the book in which she appears, her final action is kissing a boy whom she presumes to be the narrator's son; the revised version ends with the narrator seeing "the shadow of no further parting from" her. Her mother is Molly, Mr. Jaggers' servant. She eventually marries Bentley Drummle, and she was raised to wreak revenge on all the male sex by a woman who stopped all the clocks in Satis House after being abandoned by Compeyson: Miss Havisham. For 10 points, this is what the object of Pip's love in Dickens' Great Expectations?
Estella Havisham Drummle
7

98856-)
This poet wrote, "Yes, thou art gone! and round me too the night / In ever nearing circle weaves hershade," in a poem with an epigraph from Lucretius that tells how "all our hustling morrows only make /The smooth to-day of God." This poet emphasized the line, "The bloom is gone, and with the bloom go I," ina poem whose title character is told, "Time, not Corydon, hath conquer'd thee." This poet began one poem,"How changed is here each spot man makes or fills!" and in another poem described, "the (*) night-winddown the vast edges dread And naked shingles of the world." This poet commemorated his friend Arthur HughClough in one poem, and he wrote about "The eternal note of sadness" heard at a place where "ignorant armies clashby night." For 10 points, name this author of "Thyrsis" and "Dover Beach."
Matthew Arnold
7

98864-)
The antagonist of this work plans  to commit a rape in a woodhouse after readers learn of a man who loves the daughter of an innkeeper whom he calls his "Rosebud." The servant Dorcas Wykes and Madame Sinclair foil the protagonist's attempt to escape from her entrapment at a brothel. The teacher, Mrs. Norton, and the title character's aunt Hervey are both sent to persuade her to accept her father's decision regarding the expansion of their estate; that encounter is retold to (*) John Belford. The title character of this work is pressured to marry Roger Solmes, because the true object of her affection is made into her enemy after a duel with her brother James. The protagonist is in contact with her friend Miss Howe, but she eventually dies after her abductor, Robert Lovelace, drugs and rapes her. For 10 points, name this epistolary novel by the author of Pamela, Samuel Richardson.
Clarissa, or, The History of a Young Lady
7

98898-)
An oft-cited section of this work uses the analogy of "envious Juno" sitting cross-legged over the birth canal to talk about how the target of this work would stifle men's souls, and in another section this work states that for a good man, opinion is merely knowledge in the making. This work, which begins with a quote from Euripides "The Suppliants", advocates that false ideas are useful because they challenge people, using the example of St. Paul's followers rejecting Ephesian magic.  This work argues against (*) regulating manners in order to promote virtue, arguing that such a thing is impossible. It was originally written in response to the Licensing Order of 1643 and argued that having authors write their names in books was sufficient. For 10 points, name this work, a pamphlet advocating free expression and the free press named for an Athenian hill, by John Milton.
Areopagitica: A speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicensed Printing to the Parliament of England
7

98899-)
This poet wrote "Within this sober Frame expect / Work of no Forrian Architect," and another work compares the title figure to "three-fork'd lightning," and tells "the War's and Fortune's son" to "March indefatigably on." This author wrote, "twas beyond a mortal's share / To wander solitary there," in a description of the title location of one poem. Men who "themselves amaze / To win the palm, the oak, or bays" are described in that poem in which this author claims that the mind can (*) annihilate "all that's made / To a green thought in a green shade." This poet wrote "Upon Appleton House" and "An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland." "You should, if you please, refuse / Till the conversion of the Jews," according to this author of "The Garden" who says he can hear "Time's winged chariot hurrying near." For 10 points, name this poet of "To His Coy Mistress."
Andrew Marvell
7

98913-)
A politician in this novel is repeatedly described as "droll" by his wife, whom he is mocked for being unable to return by his mother-in-law Mrs. Jennings; that man owns Cleveland Estate, from which an ill-conceived walk in the rain to Combe Magna results in a near-fatal illness for one of the main characters. This novel's minor figures include Mr. Palmer and Eliza Williams, a young girl who was (*) knocked up and ditched by a man who ends up prostituting himself to Miss Grey. One protagonist has her frown turned upside down when it is revealed that Lucy Steele has actually married Robert, the brother of her beloved, enabling her to vacate John Middleton's estate shortly before her sister ends up with Colonel Brandon instead of John Willoughby. Also featuring the semi-likable Edward Ferrars, for 10 points, name this Jane Austen novel centering on Elinor and Marianne Dashwood.
Sense and Sensibility
7

98923-)
The fifth act opens with one character, who claims to be an Epicurean, interpreting the sign that ravens and not eagles eating is an omen. In its last scene, the philosopher Volumnius appears and refuses to hold a sword for the purposes of someone else committing suicide. Shortly after Trebonius appears in this play, men decide to walk through the (*) marketplace shouting "peace, freedom, and liberty." This play opens with Flavius and Marullus talking to a group of workmen, thus driving them away. This play also contains a speech about the "dogs of war," and ends with another character being declared "the noblest Roman of them all." For 10 points, identify this play that also features the "friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears" oration, a William Shakespeare play title after a Roman hero.
The Tragedy of Julius Caesar 
7

98933-)
After being refused a kiss, a character in this play exclaims "you forget yourself; a woman dipped in blood, and talk of modesty?" Its first scene ends with that character returning a dropped glove to a woman who immediately takes off her other glove to signify her repulsion to his touch. This play's subplot takes place in a madhouse where Lollio tries to seduce Isabella, the wife of Alibius. In order to pass her husband's virginity test, its main character pays her servant Diaphanta to perform the bed trick on her wedding night. It takes place in Alicante, where its antagonist murders Alonzo de Piracquo to enable its main character to marry Alsemero. That antagonist, De Flores, is obsessed with the villainous Beatrice-Joanna. For 10 points, name this Jacobean tragedy collaborated on by William Rowley and Thomas Middleton.
The Changeling
8

98952-)
In The Liberal Imagination, Lionel Trilling argued that this poem is an interplay between the "poetic faculty" and the faculty to comprehend general ideas. In its third stanza, its speaker sees "the young lambs bound as to the tabor's sound" while "to me alone there came a thought of grief." This poem describes a "little actor" who will spend his life filling his "humorous stage" with different characters "as if his whole vocation were endless imitation." This poem asks "Whither is fled the visionary gleam? Where is it now, the glory and the dream?" and ends by declaring "the meanest flower that blows" can give "thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears." Its speaker laments the fading of the "celestial light" he once saw in nature, and resolves to find inner strength by recalling the innocence of early childhood. For 10 points, name this poem by William Wordsworth about the ability of children to access the divine.
"Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood" [or the Immortality Ode; prompt on Intimations of Immortality]
8

98979-)
This poet wrote of "The melting voice through mazes running; Untwisting all the chains that ty Thehidden soul of harmony," while another of this author's narrators wants to "Find out the peacefullhermitage, The Hairy Gown and Mossy Cell." This author wrote of a "half regain'd Eurydice" beforestating, "Mirth with thee, I mean to live." In a poem, this author wrote of "that one TalentÂ… Lodged withme useless" and closed with the line, "They also (*) serve who only stand and wait." This author wrote a pair ofpoems beginning with the lines, "Hence loathed Melancholy," and, "Hence vain deluding joys," about a happy andthoughtful person, respectively, and one of his sonnets begins, "When I consider how my light is spent." For 10points, name this author of poems like "Il Penseroso," "L'Allegro," and the sonnet "On His Blindness" as well asParadise Lost.
John Milton
7

98993-)
In one story by this author, a Norse god is cursed to be a blacksmith shoeing horses for farmers until the day one of his clients thanks him. That story appears in a collection in which Dan and Una meet the title character after putting on a performance of A Midsummer Night's Dream. One of his stories begins on a train where a stranger tells the narrator to give the message "He has gone South for the week" to a red-bearded man at Marwar Junction. This author included "Weland's Sword" in his collection Puck of Pook's Hill, and wrote a story in which Darzee's wife pretends that she has a broken wing in order to let a character enter a nest in a melon patch. He wrote a short story in which Peachy Carnahan and Daniel Dravot set themselves up as the rulers of Kafiristan, as well as a story in which the cobras Nag and Nagaina are defeated by the title heroic mongoose. For 10 points, name this Anglo-Indian author of "The Man Who Would Be King" and "Rikki-Tikki-Tavi."
Rudyard Kipling
8

99022-)
One character in this novel was inspired by the Goths to debate about getting his son breeches in a "bed of justice." The narrator of this novel discusses his Aunt Dinah's black mask and how the women in his family show their faces in public. The narrator of this novel dubs his uncle's method of argumentation "Argumentum fistulatorium," because he would respond by whistling. Didius is the author of a difficult-to-understand document in this novel. One character in this novel asks if her husband had forgotten to wind up the clock at an inconvenient time, and Susannah's mispronunciation results in a problem for the main character. One character in this novel has a hobby-horse related to the battle where his groin was injured. That character in this novel is Uncle Toby. This novel's narrator's nose is flattened, and he is circumcised by a window. For 10 points, identify this novel that includes the gravity-hating Parson Yorick, written by Laurence Sterne.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman
9

99035-)
One of this author's stories ends with the narrator hearing from the Superintendent of the Asylum that a man who was suffering from sunstroke died without anything in his possession; that man had earlier been singing "The Son of Man goes forth to war, / A golden crown to gain." In one of this author's stories, the title character kills Karait, after which Teddy's father beats Karait's dead body and hugs his son, and another story tells of the ex-soldiers Dravot and Carnehan who try to take over (*) Kafiristan. This author of "The Man Who Would Be King" wrote a collection including "The Cat That Walked by Himself" and "How the Camel Got His Hump," and another story ends with the title character emerging from a rat hole announcing the deaths of Nag and Nagaina, a pair of cobras. For 10 points, name the author who created Rikki-Tikki-Tavi in The Jungle Book.
Joseph Rudyard Kipling
7

99060-)
This man quoted Matthew Arnold's belief that the Romantic poets "did not know enough" in the introduction to a work that ends by referring any would-be critics to a selection from Johnson's Life of Cowley.  That text notes that Tudor-Stuart drama had been utterly mastered by Swinburne, whose inability to drop his overpowering style made him "imperfect," shortly before a section which features an extended metaphor of a platinum catalyzed reaction. This man notably called a certain work an "artistic (*) failure" because it lacks the chain of events that serve as the "formula for a particular emotion" in an essay claiming the title figure was made into a Werther by Goethe and into a Coleridge by Coleridge. He submitted his "impersonal theory" of poetry in "Tradition and the Individual Talent" and his concept of "objective correlative" in another piece in The Sacred Wood. For 10 points, name this author of "Hamlet and His Problems," an anglophile American poet whose own works include The Love Song of Alfred Prufrock.
Thomas Stearns Eliot
7

99083-)
One character in this play says he underwent Pythagorean reincarnation as a Carthusian, then as a lawyer, and then as a mule; he is now a hemaphrodite. In this play, Peregrine feeds another character's suspicions that Stone was a spy who received coded messages in his food. This play's title character disguises himself as the mountebank, Scoto of Mantua, in order to woo a character whom Bonario saves from being raped, named Celia. In this play, Bonario is being disinherited as a ploy by his father, Corbaccio, who competes with Voltore and Corvino to win the riches of the master of Mosca. The characters' names are based on the animals that inspired them in, for 10 points, what play in which the title fox-like Venetian nobleman pretends to be dying to be bribed into naming an heir, by Ben Jonson?
Volpone
7

99095-)
In one of this author's novels, the fiendish alchemist Demetrius Doboobie takes the name Dr. Alasco and prepares a poison which is counteracted by an antidote provided by Wayland Smith. This author's characteristic style was imitated by Alfred de Vigny in his novel Cinq-Mars. He wrote a novel in which Anthony Foster dies in a gold room in Cumnor Place, which ends with Richard Varney tricking Amy Robsart into falling to her death. This author used the pseudonym Jedediah Cleishbotham to write a novel whose first section depicts the storming of the Old Tolbooth prison. The protagonist of that novel walks barefoot to London to plead for the life of her sister Effie. His novel about the idealistic Jeanie Deans forms part of his series Tales of My Landlord. For 10 points, name this author of historical romances such as Kenilworth and The Heart of Midlothian.
Sir Walter Scott
8

99116-)
One of this author's novels describes the last day in the life of drug dealer Felix Cooper in its section "Guest." One character created by this writer had a crush on Nathan Bogle and finds her dog Olive dead a day after it is violently kicked; that character, Leah Hanwell, is best friends with a woman who changed her name to Natalie from Keisha Blake after escaping Caldwell. In another of her novels, Ryan Topps drives his scooter into a tree after becoming a Jehovah's Witness. She described how Millat's role in KEVIN leads him to try and shoot the former Nazi scientist Dr. Perret during a press conference for FutureMouse in a novel about the odd friendship between Archie Jones and Samad Iqbal. For 10 points, name this contemporary British author of NW and White Teeth.
Zadie Smith [or Sadie Smith]
8

99134-)
Following this passage, its speaker tells a messenger "Bid them achieve me and then sell my bones." Prior to this passage, its speaker disguises himself under a cloak and exchanges gloves with the cynic Michael Williams. Its speaker declares that "outward things" such as gold or garments "dwell not in my desires," and that "if it be a sin to covet honour, I am the most offending soul alive." This passage imagines a person who will "yearly on the vigil feast his neighbors" and remember names "familiar in his mouth as household words." It occurs in Act Four, scene three, and begins with its speaker telling his cousin Westmoreland "wish not one man more." Its speaker declares that "he today that sheds his blood with me shall be my brother," and addresses its audience as "we happy few, we band of brothers." For 10 points, name this speech given by Shakespeare's Henry V on the eve of the Battle of Agincourt.
Henry V's St. Crispin's Day Speech [accept "Band of Brothers" Speech before read; accept equivalents such as Henry V's speech before Agincourt until Agincourt]
8

99136-)
Dryden's Essay on Dramatic Poesy features an extended analysis of one of this man's plays that sees a long and Latin-filled argument in a courtroom while a central figure is beset by the chirping "Collegiate Ladies." The knights John Daw and Amorous La-Foole are repeatedly abused in that work, in which Dauphine's uncle Morose marries a man disguised as the titular (*) "Silent Woman." The undercover Adam Overdo discovers his wife being pimped out in another of this author's plays, that ends after puppets win a debate with the puritan Zeal-of-the-Land Busy at the titular event. This author of Epicoene created characters like Epicure Mammon and Abel Drugger in his best known work, which centers on a con run by Subtle and Jeremy. For 10 points, name this dramatist of Bartholomew Fair who also wrote Volpone and The Alchemist.
Ben Jonson
7

99155-)
The second section of one of this man's novels describes the homoerotic tension between Tsar Alexander I and Napoleon, and this man described Shakespeare's relationships with multiple women in Nothing Like the Sun. This author of Napoleon Symphony wrote about a poet turned bartender in the first novel of his (*) Enderby series, Inside Mr. Enderby. In another novel by this author, the protagonist meets with his friends at the Korova milkbar and eventually undergoes the Ludovico technique to cure him of his taste for committing violent crimes with his droogs. For 10 points, name this man who created the Nadsat-speaking Pete, Georgie, Dim, and Alex in A Clockwork Orange.
Anthony Burgess
7

99161-)
One character in this novel hides a pair of candles and some earrings in a locked box in her bedroom so she can pretend to be married. At a coming of age party in this novel, Totty breaks a string of beads, causing its main character to pick up a locket containing hair belonging to his lover. This novel's seventeenth chapter, "In Which the Story Pauses a Little," interrupts the narrative to address an imaginary reader's complaints about Augustus Irwine. Its protagonist falls in love with the niece of the Poysers, and manages the shop of Jonathan Burge. This novel is set in Hayslope, and climaxes with a woman being sentenced to death for abandoning her child. Its main character marries the Methodist preacher Dinah Morris after feuding with Arthur Donnithorne over Hetty Sorel. For 10 points, name this novel by George Eliot about a virtuous carpenter.
Adam Bede
8

99186-)
This author wrote how "Rachel Née Rabinovitch Tears at the grapes with murderous paws" and "Sheand the lady in the cape Are suspect, thought to be in league" while the title male is "Outside the window, leaning in" with "Branches of wistaria" around him. Another of this author's poems describes an "Unreal City Under the brown fog of a winter dawn," then "of a winter noon." That poem's (*) fourth and shortest section asks "Gentile or Jew" to "Consider Phlebas, who was once handsome and tall as you." This author described the "zebra stripes along [a] jaw Swelling to maculate giraffe" in a poem about an "Apeneck" man in his "Sweeney among the Nightingales" and wrote the refrain, "HURRY UP PLEASE IT'S TIME" towards the end of a poem whose final three words are all "shantih." For 10 points, name this author of The Waste Land.
Thomas Stearns Eliot
7

99208-)
In this work, "the co-existent Flame" encircles the title character before he "leaps, springing up, / Into the Idol's heart." Khawla is alarmed when her sister Maimuna senses "Danger- death- judgment!" in this work. When the title character of this work asks for "the needful Talisman," he is told that "the Talisman is Faith." Based heavily on Arabic mythology, this work includes a sandstorm that prevents Abdaldar from killing the title character, and Oneiza questions the title character's decision to take Abdaldar's ring because "it may have charms." In the first of the twelve books of this poem, sorcerers kill all the Hodeirahs except Zeinab and the title character. For 10 points, name this epic poem, completed after its author finished Madoc, written by Robert Southey.
Thalaba the Destroyer
9

99219-)
One scene in this play includes yells of "Oh, oh!" from a closet, but rather than having sex, one character was stabbing the other. The epilogue of this play is comprised of a very brief soliloquy in which a character says, "All we can do to comfort one another, Â…  It is no purpose." The main character of this play praises the man she loves for being wise in choosing Jasperino as a friend, and a side plot involves Isabella's imprisonment by Alibius so that she cannot have sex with other men. Tomazo wants revenge for the death of his brother after the main character has Alonzo killed by De Flores so that she can marry Alsemero. For 10 points, Beatrice-Joanna claims that she is an example of the title character in this collaboration between Thomas Middleton and William Rowley.
The Changeling
9

99222-)
One character in this novel keeps losing expensive pairs of gloves. That character calls her lover "Chubby" and he calls her "Gipsy" in return. In this novel, William correctly predicts that his lover will forget all about him within two months of his death. The hunchbacked Fanny works with its protagonist for Thomas Jordan, who fires Baxter after he starts a fight with the protagonist for going out with his ex-wife. The protagonist of this novel refuses Miriam Leiver's proposal of marriage and breaks up with Clara Dawes shortly after euthanizing Gertrude with morphine. For 10 points, name this novel about Paul Morel's love for his mother and the other women in his life, by D.H. Lawrence.
Sons and Lovers 
7

99263-)
The main character of this play appears in disguise and complains about "mouldy tales out of Boccaccio, like stale Tabarin, the fabulist" when describing himself being condemned for poisoning Cardinal Bembo's cook. Another character in this work is accused of having a demon coming from his mouth before falling to the ground.  The title character of this play disguises himself of Scoto of Mantua, and this play begins with the main character calling for his (*) dwarf, eunuch, and fool to entertain him; those characters are Nano, Castrone, and Androgyno. The title character is almost successful at raping Celia, but Bonario prevents him from doing so. Corbaccio, Corvino, and Voltore are led to believe that they will be receiving money, but it is later announced that the inheritance belongs to Mosca. For 10 points, name this play about the title fox-like conman, by Ben Jonson.
Volpone or, the Fox
7

99278-)
In one work, this author wrote, "I vowed that I would dedicate my powers / To thee and thine Â– have I not kept the vow?" That poem tells the addressee of "one who worships thee... Whom, Spirit fair, thy spells did bind / To fear himself, and love mankind." Another of this author's poems describes Murder, Fraud, and the title figure, before instructing "shake your (*) chains to earth, like dewÂ… ye are many Â– they are few." One of this author's poems is about a figure whose "fate and fame shall be / An echo and a light unto eternity," and repeats, "O, weep for [the title figure]." This author of Hymn to Intellectual Beauty and The Masque of Anarchy wrote "An Elegy on the Death of John Keats," as well as a poem that asks, "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" For 10 points, name this poet of Adonais and Ode to the West Wind.
Percy Bysshe Shelley
7

99287-)
At the end of this play, we are told that one character will use his "pelf" to "feast you often, and invitenew guests," referring to the audience in the theater. In another scene, a character plays the cittern offstageto signify the arrival of elves to a blindfolded man; in reality, two men are pinching him and telling him tothrow his possessions to the floor on the order of the Queen of Fairy. The master of the central household hadoriginally fled the (*) plague but when he returns, his butler must return to his old persona of Jeremy. Some of the"gulls" in this play include Kastril, the brother of the widowed Dame Pliant, the law clerk Dapper, and a tobaccoseller named Drugger. Those characters are conned by the prostitute Dol Common and Captain Face. For 10 points,name this play in which Subtle pretends to have the philosopher's stone, by Ben Jonson.
The Alchemist
7

99311-)
In this novel, after the protagonist's maid brings her a man's marriage proposal by letter, she uses acandle to burn some dried flowers she had received from another man before accepting the proposal. A manonce thought to be dead becomes of interest in this novel when someone wants to inspect his handwriting;that character's letters are sought out by Guppy who finds out that he was using the name (*) "Nemo." Themistress of Chesney Wold fears that news of her illegitimate child will be revealed, so she runs away and dies whereher lover, Captain Hawdon, was buried. The protagonist ends up marrying Alan Woodcourt at the end of this novelthat details Richard Carstone's obsession with the Chancery court case, Jarndyce v. Jarndyce. For 10 points, namethis Charles Dickens novel centering on Esther Summerson who lives in the title location.
Bleak House
7

99334-)
One work by this author pleads, "Stay, stay, Until the hasting day Has run But to the evensong;" that poemlater says, "We die, As your hours do, and dry Away, Like to the summer's rain" and is about flowers "weweep to see" and that "haste away so soon." This author of "To Daffodils" wrote of a state that "Do morebewitch me than when art Is too (*) precise in every part." This author created a speaker who sees "how sweetlyflows That liquefaction of her clothes" in one poem also wrote of "The glorious lamp of heaven, the sun" and how"The higher he's a-getting, The sooner will his race be run." This poet wrote Noble Numbers and the poem "Delightin Disorder" as well as a collection including many poems addressed to Julia. For 10 points, name this author ofHesperides who wrote "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may" in his "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time."
Robert Herrick
7

99359-)
In most collections this poem immediately follows a poem which asks "What if this present were the world's last night?" and ends with the couplet "To wicked spirits are horrid shapes assigned; this beauteous form assures a piteous mind." The speaker of this poem laments that "Reason" is "captived, and proves weak or untrue" after referring to it as "your viceroy in me" and comparing himself to a "usurp'd town". This poem ends with the speaker ruing the fact that he "never shall be free, nor ever chaste" unless the addressee ravishes him. At se	veral points its speaker issues lists of commands to the addressee, commanding him to "Divorce me, untie, or break that knot again", to "break, blow, burn, and make me new", and to "knock, breathe, shine, and seek to mend" him. For 10 points, identify this Holy Sonnet, adapted into an aria in John Adams's opera Doctor Atomic, in which John Donne invites the soul-redeeming abuse of a triune deity.
"Batter my heart, Three Person'd God" [or Holy Sonnet XIV; accept Divine Sonnet or Divine Meditation for "Holy Sonnet"; only the number is required after "Holy Sonnet" is read]
9

99375-)
One character in this work is an actor named Wilks, who pulled an elaborate prank in which he impersonated a professor before a lecture, and then convinced the man's followers that he was the true professor by appealing to the invented "hedgehog in Montaigne." Revelations in this work are often accompanied by characters taking blue cards from their breast pockets. In this work, a spry, incredibly obese man improbably hijacks a zoo's elephant and a lighter-than-air balloon to escape six men who are trying to stop the bombing of a meeting between the French Foreign Minister and the Russian Czar. It begins in the suburb of Saffron Park, where a debate between two rival poets leads to the protagonist's presence at an election for the title position, which Lucian Gregory had hoped to attain. For 10 points, name this novel, subtitled "A Nightmare," in which Gabriel Syme joins the Central Anarchist Council, written by G.K. Chesterton.
The Man Who Was Thursday
9

99405-)
One of this book's sections focuses on a Elijah, a man who works to keep his house in the exact condition it was when his wife Sarah died eight years ago. Two characters touchingly sing "Home, Sweet Home" in front of its narrator in its section "The Old Singers." Another character in this book tells the narrator about the Scottish explorer Gaffett, who encountered "creatures of fog and cobweb" in the North Pole. Its narrator meets Abby Martin, a woman obsessed with Queen Victoria, and walks across Green Island with William Blackitt. This book includes a character sketch of Captain Littlepage, and helped popularize regionalism when it was published in 1896. It takes place in Dunnet Landing, where its narrator stays with the herbalist Almira Todd. For 10 points, name this book whose narrator hears the stories of elderly residents of a Maine fishing village, written by Sarah Orne Jewett.
The Country of the Pointed Firs
8

99410-)
One character in this poem tells its main character "When all treasure is tried, truth is the best." This poem's first section ends with its main character showing a pardon to a priest who declares it invalid, causing him to angrily rip it apart. In another of its scenes, Betty the Breweress lures a glutton into a tavern where he drinks so much that he pisses two quarts and vomits. This poem is divided into sections entitled "passus," and follows a character who is warned by Lady Holy Church against the evil Lady Meed. Its prologue begins "In summer season when soft was the sun," and describes how its narrator falls asleep at the Malvern Hills and dreams of a "fair field full of folk." In its second half, its narrator searches for the characters Do-Well, Do-Better, and Do-Best. For 10 points, name this fourteenth century allegorical poem attributed to William Langland.
William's Vision of Piers Plowman
8

99412-)
During a game at the protagonist's home in this novel, one character makes the word "blunder" and then"Dixon," the latter of which angers a woman and seems to confirm suspicions of that woman's affair with Mr.Dixon. In this novel, a party delays a trip to Box Hill to wait for a horse's recovery, but in the meantime theygo to Donwell Abbey where a female rejects an opportunity to become a governess. The protagonist of thisnovel insults her talkative aunt, (*) Miss Bates, and sabotages a potential relationship involving Robert Martinby suggesting that Harriet reject him. At the end of this novel, it is revealed that Frank Churchill has been secretlyengaged to Jane Fairfax. For 10 points, name this novel that ends with the marriage of Mr. Knightley and the titlematchmaker written by Jane Austen.
Emma
7

99440-)
At the end of one section of this play, a woman asks "Tell me where can I find" the title character, towhich another character responds, "He is not yet created;" that section is interrupted by a voice slowlybecoming intelligible crying, "Automobile, Automobile." A woman in this play announces her pregnancy andimpending marriage but only at the end does she reveal her partner to be the wealthy (*) Hector Malone. Afamous sequence in this play occurs after the chauffeur Enry Straker and his employer are imprisoned by the Leagueof the Sierra under Mendoza; that third act features Roebuck Ramsden as a Statue and Mendoza as the Devil andis sometimes performed on its own as "Don Juan in Hell." For 10 points, name this play about the pursuit by AnnWhitefield of John Tanner written by George Bernard Shaw.
Man and Superman
7

99465-)
This poem describes a character "Like some bold seer in a trance" before that character's "bloodwas frozen slowly." This poem tells of "a song that echoes cheerly From the river winding clearly" beforedescribing "a troop of damsels," "An abbot on an ambling pad," and a "long-hair'd page in crimson" as someof the "Shadows of the world" that appear to a character who later declares, "I am (*) half sick of shadows."A character in this poem says, "The curse is upon me," when her mirror cracks after she hears a man singing "Tirralirra;" that man is described as having "coal-black curls" that "From underneath his helmet flow'd." This poem endswith the line, "She has a lovely face; God in his mercy lend her grace," which is spoken by Sir Lancelot. For 10points, name this poem about a woman who weaves images of Camelot written by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
"The Lady of Shalott"
7

99493-)
At one point in this poem, a frenzied character faints, and the speaker asks "Is it death or is it life? / Life out of death."  One character in this poem implores another to remember Jeanie, who "dwindled and grew grey; / Then fell with the first snow." This poem's title figures are last seen flinging back a penny at one of the protagonists and vanishing, after which she returns to tell the other protagonist, "Eat me, drink me, love me, / Â… make much of me."  In its final section, the protagonists inform their children that "there is no friend like a sister" after recounting their dealings with characters who repeatedly cry, "Come buy, come buy." For 10 points, name this poem that tells of the sisters Laura and Lizzie and their encounter with the fruit-dealing title creatures, written by Christina Rossetti.
"Goblin Market"
7

99494-)
21.	This novel's protagonist recounts how his straw-plaiting mother Caroline took care of Beaufort and wept over his coffin. Another character overhears de Volney's Ruins of Empires being read aloud to teach a Moorish girl. Its title character hears that an incriminating locket was found in Justine's possession. An encounter on Montantvert glacier precedes a shift of narrator in this novel, the only work completed for a challenge posed during incessant rain at a Swiss castle about "ghost stories". It opens with four letters to Margaret from her brother Walton, whoses ship sails toward the North Pole and finds a man who suffered his bride Elizabeth's murder after refusing to create a female. For 10 points, name this novel whose namesake natural philosopher Victor creates a "wretch," by Mary Shelley.
Frankenstein, or, the Modern Prometheus
7

99562-)
One of this author's poems compares life's randomness to the bouncing of a tennis ball, but argues that God controls it in the same way that fabric is made durable by weaving. This author of "In Praise of Peace" is thought to be depicted by an illustration showing him shooting an arrow at a floating globe representing the world. The prologue to one of this author's poems ends with a historical analysis of Nebuchadnezzar's dream of a statue and claims that its subject matter consists "somewhat of lust, somewhat of lore." This author's version of the story of Apollonius of Tyre inspired Shakespeare's play Pericles. He wrote a poem in eight books structured as a lover's conversation with Genius, as well as a poem attacking the Peasant Revolt of 1381. For 10 points, name this medieval English poet of Vox Clamantis and Confessio Amantis.
John Gower
8

99589-)
In one novel by this author, a woman studying the composition of suicide notes places a pair of panties into the coat of Desmond Bates to get him to work with her. That novel centers on Desmond's comic treatment of his hearing loss. This author's first novel concerns the relationship between Mark Underwood and Claire, two people who frequent the Brickley Palladium cinema. This author of Deaf Sentence and The Picturegoers lamented that Colm Toibin's novel The Master was published the same year of his novel about Henry James, Author, Author. Persse McGarrigle falls in love with Angelica Pabst at first sight in another of his novels, which forms an unofficial trilogy along with Changing Places and Nice Work. For 10 points, name this contemporary British novelist whose "campus trilogy" includes Small World.
David Lodge
8

99607-)
Early in his career, this author wrote music criticism for The Star and The World under the pseudonym "Corno di Bassetto." This author discussed "Siegfried as Protestant" in an essay analyzing the Ring cycle as an allegory for the rise of capitalism. Another of his essays borrows a term from Matthew Arnold to divide society into "Philistines" who accepted the established order and "Idealists" who avoided it, and calls the title playwright a "Realist" who confronted it. This author of "The Perfect Wagnerite" mocked G.K. Chesterton and Hilaire Belloc as "The Chesterbelloc," and analyzed plays such as Little Eyolf and Ghosts in "The Quintessence of Ibsenism." His own plays frequently describe a mysterious "Life-Force" and parody his fellow Fabian socialists. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of Heartbreak House, Man and Superman, and Pygmalion.
George Bernard Shaw
8

99615-)
This poem's first stanza describes "white-flowered Jasmin and the broad-leav'd myrtle" as "meet emblems" of "Innocence and Love." This poem praises "the one life within us and abroad which meets all motion and becomes its soul" before declaring "Methinks, it should have been impossible" not to "love all things in a world so filled." This poem's concluding palinode disparages the speaker's "dim and unhallowed" thoughts and praises the "heart-honored maid" who brought his thought to Jesus, "who with his saving mercies healed me." Set in a cottage in Clevedon, it is the first of its author's "Conversation Poems." The speaker of this poem wonders if "one intellectual breeze, at once the soul of each, and God of all" could arouse thought in "all animated nature," just as the wind brings music from the title object. Addressed to "my pensive Sara," for 10 points, name this Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem that compares the human imagination to the title instrument.
"The Eolian Harp"
8

99633-)
Mark Twain claimed that this figure is a false claimant akin to Mary Baker Eddy and Satan in a work titled "Is [This Figure] Dead?" In 2007, Mark Rylance wrote a play titled "I Am [This Figure]", and then co-released the "Declaration of Reasonable Doubt" with Derek Jacobi, demanding further investigation into the identity of this figure. Delia Bacon advanced the theory that this figure's works employed coded messages to resist the monarchy. Charlton Ogburn was a prominent advocate of a position first advocated by J. T. Looney in "[This Figure] Identified", which suggested that he was really Edmund de Vere, known as the Oxfordian Theory. For 10 points, Anti-Stratfordianism is the practice of doubting that what author really wrote such works as Coriolanus, As You Like It, Macbeth, and Hamlet?
William Shakespeare
7

99665-)
19.	This author attacked John Hill in a periodical he wrote under the pen-name Alexander Drawcansir in the so-called Paper War. The title character of one play by this author is rivals to Lord Grizzle for the hand of Princess Huncaumunca. That play was expanded into one called The Tragedy of Tragedies. The title character of another of his works resists the amorous advances of the maid at Mr. Tow-Wouse's inn, Betty, after having been fired earlier for resisting the advances of Lady Booby. That title character is the brother of a character by another author, whom this author satirized in Shamela. The title character of another work is in love with Sophia Western and is a foundling raised by Squire Allworthy. For 10 points, name this 18th century English author of Joseph Andrews and Tom Jones.
Henry Fielding
7

99674-)
After one character in this short story says, "If you play ball with us, we'll play ball with you," the narrator mockingly comments, "You'd have thought it was going to be one long tennis match." Its narrator admires his father's "honesty" in refusing hospitalization for throat cancer, and is annoyed that his mother uses the insurance money from his father's death to buy a new television and a fur coat. After money washes out of a drainpipe, its protagonist is sent to a place overseen by a potbellied Governor. The main character of this story is convicted of stealing seventy pounds from a bakery with his accomplice Mike, and stands still while boys from Gunthorpe and Aylesham pass him to win the All-England Borstal Blue Ribbon Prize Cup. For 10 points, name this short story whose title character throws a race to maintain his independence, written by Alan Sillitoe.
'The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner"
8

99691-)
One character in this novel keeps losing expensive pairs of gloves. That character calls her lover "Chubby" and he calls her "Gipsy" in return. In this novel, William correctly predicts that his lover will forget all about him within two months of his death. The hunchbacked Fanny works with its protagonist for Thomas Jordan, who fires Baxter after he starts a fight with the protagonist for going out with his ex-wife. The protagonist of this novel refuses Miriam Leiver's proposal of marriage and breaks up with Clara Dawes shortly after euthanizing Gertrude with morphine. For 10 points, name this novel about Paul Morel's love for his mother and the other women in his life, by D.H. Lawrence.
Sons and Lovers
7

99723-)
This author wrote a work in which the Duke and Duchess of Falvertoon are getting divorced but go on strike during the proceedings, and also wrote of a bachelor who was able to quiet a group of children by explaining how Bertha, a "horribly good" girl, was devoured by a wolf. This author of "The Unkindest Blow" and "The Storyteller" wrote about two rivals stuck under a (*) tree who end a feud by becoming friends before seeing a pack of wolves. The title character kills Mrs. de Ropp and is worshipped by Conradin in a work about a pole-cat ferret by this author who also wrote a work in which Mr. Sappleton and his dog are thought to be ghosts by Mr. Nuttel who then runs away. For 10 points, name this author of "The Interlopers," "Sredni Vashtar," and "The Open Window."
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro]
7

99738-)
Some creatures in this work drink their mother's blood after her head is cut off by one character, and those monsters' stomachs burst from drinking so much blood. One character in this work breaks a branch off a tree and learns that the tree is actually Fradubio who was turned into a tree by the disguised character Fidessa. One character is warned by a female companion about the den of the monster Error, but ignores the warning, and a magician named (*) Archimago creates two sprites, one of which appears to be Una, to tempts that character with a kiss. The witch Duessa represents the Catholic church in this work in which the task of slaying a dragon is given to the Redcrosse Knight by his queen, Gloriana. For 10 points, name this incomplete allegorical epic poem which praised Elizabeth I, by Edmund Spenser.
The Faerie Queene [accept Book I of The Faerie Queene]
7

99792-)
The protagonist of one of this man's works has a brief affair with the radical feminist Rachel before the death of her eccentric Uncle Leslie, and discusses suicide with the RAF pilot Tommy Prosser. In another work by this author of Staring at the Sun, Veronica Ford's mother leaves the narrator, Tony Webster, the diary of his suicidal former classmate Adrian Finn. That novel takes its title from the most famous work of Frank Kermode. He based another of his novels on the Great Wyrley Outrages, in which a half-Indian solicitor was accused of mutilating animals but was later exonerated by the creator of Sherlock Holmes. In his most famous novel, Geoffrey Braithwaite tours a number of French museums while searching for the real object that sat on the desk of the author of A Simple Heart. For 10 points, identify this author of The Sense of an Ending, Arthur and George, and Flaubert's Parrot, who was going to be the subject of this tossup even before he won the 2011 Booker Prize.
Julian Patrick Barnes
9

99809-)
In this poem's first stanza, the speaker describes living "Here at the quiet limit of the world" appearing as a "white-haired shadow roaming . . . The ever silent spaces of the east." The speaker of this poem asks, "How can my nature longer mix with thine?" before begging his lover "Release me, and restore me to the ground." The speaker comments "mine asking" was granted "with a smile / Like wealthy men who care not how they (*) give" before lamenting that he has learned the meaning of the saying, "The Gods themselves cannot recall their gifts." This poem begins with the assertion, "The woods decay, the woods decay and fall" before the speaker exclaims he is a "gray shadow, once a man" who watches as "after many a summer dies the swan." For 10 points, name this Tennyson poem about the titular lover of Eos who was granted immortality but not eternal youth. 
"Tithonus"
7

99821-)
One character claims that this locale was frequently visited by Aethelred the Unready, who got his nickname because he was always late for dinner. The rhododendrons surrounding this place are frequently remarked upon by the narrator, who also describes a dog named Jasper and the manager of this locale, the sympathetic character Frank Crawley. This estate is the setting for a drama-inducing costume ball after the protagonist appears (*) wearing a dress inspired by a portrait that hangs over its central staircase. This estate is ultimately burned down by Mrs. Danvers, who treats the narrator with contempt because she can't compare to the first Mrs. de Winter. That unnamed narrator opens the novel by relating "Last night I dreamt I went to [this place] again." For 10 points, identify this English estate, the setting of Daphne du Maurier's novel Rebecca.
Manderley
7

99861-)
One character in this work dreams that Mercury tells him to travel to Athens, so he goes there dressed as a poor laborer. The third of three sequential prayers in this work is met with a god's armor ringing as well as a murmur of the word "Victory." That prayer to Mars follows opposing prayers to Diana and Venus in this work. Saturn's intervention prevents the winner of a battle from claiming the prize after having recruited (*) 100 fighters for that battle. The basis for this work's plot was Boccaccio's Teseida, and this work was also used as the basis for Fletcher and Shakespeare's The Two Noble Kinsmen. The central characters in this work are imprisoned in a tower in Theseus's castle, and both of those character fall in love with Emily. For 10 points, name this story about Arcite and Palamon, the first of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales.
"The Knight's Tale"
7

99863-)
In a poem by this author, the speaker talks of a "shape less recognizable each week" which serves "apurpose more obscure." In that poem, the speaker wonders what will happen when the titleestablishments "fall completely out of use" and asks, "what we shall turn them into." The speaker ofanother of this author's poems describes a time when "ever life became / a brilliant breaking of thebank"; a time he described as being "Between the end of the (*) "Chatterley" ban / And the Beatles' firstLP." The speaker of a third poem by him advises the subjects of that poem: "don't have any kids yourself" andbegins "They fuck you up, your mum and dad". For 10 points identify this poet of "Church Going", "AnnusMirabilis", and "This Be the Verse".
Philip Larkin
7

99883-)
The speaker of one of this poet's works invites the dark to come upon him like the moment when anunderground train "stops too long between stations" and the passengers realize the "growing terrorof nothing to think about." This man used the analogy of "a bit of finely filiated platinum" in thepresence of oxygen and sulfur dioxide to introduce his idea of the poet's mind as a catalyst forproducing poetry. One of his poems describes a yellow (*) fog rubbing its back on window panes. Thisauthor of Tradition and the Individual Talent wrote a poem whose speaker asks "Do I dare / Disturb theuniverse?" and which begins "Let us go then, you and I". For 10 points, name this poet who included "EastCoker" in his Four Quartets and wrote "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock."
T.S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]
7

99889-)
One character in this novel states that he wants to pen a "History of Coincidences," but laterattributes most of life's events to fate. Another character in this novel frequently interrupts a tennismatch by reading aloud sections of a book by Joseph Emmery Prank while four other characters play.The protagonist embraces her love-interest near a fountain after they witness a knife-fight, and thenlater again amid a field of (*) violets. The protagonist of this novel gets lost near the Santa Croce churchwhile travelling with Eleanor Lavish. Cecil Vyse loves the main character of this novel, who tours Italy withher aunt Mrs. Bartlett and falls in love with George Emerson. For 10 points, name this novel about LucyHoneychurch by E.M. Forster.
A Room With a View
7

99936-)
The narrator of this work extolls the "via media," a middle way of living, shortly before overhearing two arguments:  One between a group of beggars that Father Clause will presumably arbitrate, the other between a band of gypsies. In one scene from this work, a milkmaid named Maudlin sings Marlowe's "Passionate Shepherd to His Love," after which her mother sings Raleigh's "Nymph's Reply." A poet known for translating (*) Montaigne's Essays into English, Charles Cotton, contributed to this work, whose second edition introduced the central figure Auceps, a falconer. Constructed as a dialogue featuring the hunter Venator and the narrator Piscator, who offers advice on snagging roach, dace, and pike. For 10 points, identify this 17th-century tract on fishing written by Isaak Walton.
The Compleat Angler
7

99952-)
William Hazlitt contradicted the first published version of this poem by following a manuscript owned by Philip Bliss, which replaced the word "Gods" with "birds" in the first stanza. This poem describes "hearts with loyal flames; / When thirsty grief in wine we steep" after telling how "flowing cups run swiftly round / With no allaying Thames." The edited version of this poem creates a stronger parallel between (*) "Enlarged winds, that curl the flood," "Fishes that tipple in the deep," and "birds that wanton in the air," before contrasting them with "Angels alone, that soar above" who can "Enjoy such liberty." This poem begins by describing how "Love with unconfined wings / Hovers within my gates." For 10 points, name this poem which tells how "Stone walls do not a prison make, Nor iron bars a cage," written by Richard Lovelace.
"To Althea, from Prison"
7

99970-)
In one of this man's novels, the protagonist takes up lodging with Dick and Martha Thompson, and gets raped while drunk towards the end but decides to continue her relationship with her attacker. In another, a poet returns to his native Wales to join three aging couples before that man, Alan Weaver, drinks himself to death. This author of The (*) Green Man wrote about Patrick Standish, who attempts to seduce the attractive but prudish primary school teacher Jenny Bunn, in Take a Girl Like You. In the first novel by this author of The Old Devils, the title character dumps Margaret for Christine and gets a well-paying job in London from Christine's uncle, far better than his previous job as a junior lecturer in medieval history under the uptight Professor Welch. For 10 points, name this father of xenophobic lunatic Martin, the English author Lucky Jim.
Kingsley Amis
7

100012-)
One character in this poem has coal-black locks of hair protruding from under his helmet, which, along with his helmet feather, burn like a bright flame. That man carries a silver bugle and his motion is compared to the passage of a meteor. It ends with that character proclaiming "God in his mercy lend her grace," and it opens with the image of "Long fields of (*) barley and of rye." The "shadows of the world appear" to this poem's title character in a "mirror clear / That hangs before her all the year," and she is said to weave "a magic web with colours gay." That title character is "robed in snowy white" as she lies down on a boat that she finds beneath a willow, and she is carried away to her death while "Singing in her song." For 10 points, name this poem about a woman who meets Sir Lancelot in Camelot, a work of Tennyson.
"The Lady of Shalott"
7

100051-)
This author tried to market lit crit to the layman in The March of Literature, a tract dictated while he paced around Allen Tate's house as Robert Lowell heckled him while living like a hobo in a tent on the lawn. This author of the "Buckshee" poems created Arthur Etchingham Granger, who witnesses Fourth Dimensionalists run amok through the government. A character in the most famous work by this founder of The English Review ends up repeating the word (*) "shuttlecocks," while another discovers that a vial of amyl nitrate actually contained cyanide, with which his wife commits suicide. Florence had been faking a heart ailment and having an affair with the title character, who slits his throat after speaking with John Dowell, who opens that novel by calling it "the saddest story I have ever heard." For 10 points, identify this author of Parade's End who created Edward Ashburnham in The Good Soldier.
Ford Madox Ford or Ford Hermann Hueffer
7

100052-)
In the preface to this work, its author noted that he chose verse because principles, maxims, and precepts "strike the reader more strongly at first." Its last section opens by stating "Oh, happiness, our being's end and aim" and later notes that "St John dwells with thee". Starting with the second section of this work, all chapters of this poem are listed as epistles. The lines (*) "Beast, bird, fish, insect, what no eye can see/No glass can reach; from Infinite to thee" appear in a discussion of the great chain of being in this poem. In its third section, this poem tells the reader to "Know thyself, presume not God to scan" before noting that the proper study is the title being. For 10 points, name this philosophical poem in five chapters by Alexander Pope.
"An Essay on Man"
7

100055-)
One of this author's essays identifies Habberton's Helen Babies and Uncle Tom's Cabin as examples of the titular "Good Bad Books." Another savages Stuart Chase and the use of "false limbs," as well as the imagery of a "jackboot" being "thrown into the melting pot." That work cites the defense of Russian death marches as "rectification of frontiers" as among the reasons to abandon "dying metaphors," "pretentious (*) diction," and "meaningless words." An earlier work by this man posits acceptance rather than resistance as the key to the naturalistic prose of Henry Miller, as explained by the titular biblical metaphor. A hospital stay led to "How the Poor Die," reminiscent of longer pieces like The Road to Wigan Pier by this author of "Inside the Whale." A .44 Winchester is used for the title action of the most famous essay by this author of "Politics of the English Language." For 10 points, identify this author of the essay "Shooting an Elephant" as well as 1984.
George Orwell
7

100067-)
This poet highlighted one word per line to create the phrase "My life is hid in Him that is my treasure" in one poem. In another work by this author, God ponders "for if I should/bestow this jewel.../he would adore my gifts instead of me." This man's efforts inspired the model for Silex Scintillans by one of his proteges, Henry Vaughn, and he wrote a poem that ends with the speaker deriding Death as "thou so much worse, that thou shall be no more."  This author of The Pulley" and "A (*) Dialogue-Anthem" wrote that "a verse it s not a crown" but that "I am with Thee: and Most take all" in "The Quiddity."  In a poem by this author, the speaker claims "affliction shall advance the flight in me." That poem, which takes the form of inverted and upright pyramids, is entitled "Easter-Wings" and appears in hist most famous collection. For 10 points, identify this British poet and Anglican priest who wrote The Temple.  For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet.
George Herbert
7

100090-)
In this work, a letter from "S. HIGGS" informs one character of his disowning and the resulting small annuity he is granted in place of an inheritance. Sambo and Blenkinsop are the servant and housekeeper, respectively, of a central household in this work, and Captain Macmurdo discusses the possibility of an affair with his friend, who determines that the suspect is (*) Lord Steyne. Jos is seduced and mysteriously dies soon after having assigned a life insurance payment to his seducer, and Sir Pitt proposes to his governess but finds out she is already married to his son in this novel. One character's husband dies at Waterloo after expressing his desire to start an affair, and this novel ends with William Dobbin marrying the widow of George Osborne. For 10 points, name this work about Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp, a "novel without a hero" by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero
7

100104-)
In this work, a man has a discussion about getting a metaphorical "diamond" and believes that he will marry that girl after he is invited to another character's home.  The governor learns who is responsible for his son's death from a prostitute, and that prostitute, Bellamira, also reveals who framed Jacomo for strangling the friar Bernardine. In this work's climactic scene, an offstage knight plays a trumpet charge and another character (*) cuts a cord to activate a trap. The title character uses forged letters to fool two friends into duelling and killing each other, and that plan involving Mathias and Lodowick is revealed by the slave Ithamore. The title character of this play uses poisoned rice to kill a group of nuns, including his daughter, Abigail, and dies by falling into a boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name this play about Barabbas, by Christopher Marlowe.
The Jew of Malta
7

100120-)
One character in this work asks, "Might there not be charity in sin" when asking to have sex with another character; the female in that interaction is an unsworn nun who had earlier answered the door of the nunnery for Lucio, the man who informed her about an arrest. One man in this work has a plot foiled by the convenient death of the pirate Ragozin. The executioner Abhorson reluctantly accepts the assistance of Pompey, one of the workers at (*) Mistress Overdone's brothel, and the wrong decapitated head is disguised and presented to a leader in this play. Mariana plays the "bed trick" on one character in this play who replaces Duke Vincentio and tries to have sex with Isabella in exchange for the release of Claudio. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play about the corrupt judge Angelo.
Measure for Measure
7

100177-)
In one novel by this writer, the title character, Wolfstein, teams up with a man named Ginotti to seek the elixir of eternal life. This author of St. Irvyne, or the Rosicrucian dedicated to Harriet Westbrook a "philosophical poem" that opens with the lines "How wonderful is Death/ Death and his brother Sleep!" entitled Queen Mab and a play in which Beatrice plots the murder of her father, Count Francesco. This author recalled how, "while yet a boy I sought for ghosts," in a poem that describes "the awful shadow of some (*) unseen Power," while another of his poems ends with Jupiter destroyed by Demogorgon, leaving the title character and Ione to observe the triumph of mankind. This author of The Cenci ended one poem by noting that the soul of the title character "beacons from the abode where the Eternal are," while another ends by asking, "If winter comes, can spring be far behind?" For 10 points, identify this poet who wrote Hymn to Intellectual Beauty, Prometheus Unbound, Adonais, and "Ode to the West Wind."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
7

100195-)
In this work, Simon Tappertit is forced to earn his living shining shoes after his legs are crushed and replaced with wooden ones. The title character of this novel is rescued from prison by a one-armed man, actually his former friend Joe Millet who was wounded in the American Revolution. In the resolution of this novel, the wicked Sir John Chester is stabbed through the chest in a duel with his nemesis Sir Geoffrey (*) Haredale, who repents and joins a religious establishment.  In this novel, a mysterious man is revealed to be the title character's criminal father, who murdered Reuben Haredale and faked his own death. The mentally-retarded title character of this novel owns a pet raven named "Grip" and is nearly hung as a supposed leader of the Gordon Riots.  For 10 points, name this historical novel by Charles Dickens. 
Barnaby Rudge
7

100208-)
The speaker of this poem twice refers to the "doors where my heart was used to beat / So quickly" in reference to a friend's former home. One section of this poem addresses a "dear heavenly friend that canst not die, / Mine, mine, for ever, ever mine." The speaker notes that "we live within the stranger's land, / And strangely falls our Christmas-eve" in the last of the three descriptions of Christmas that mark the passage of time in this work. In one climactic section of this poem, the speaker reaches (*) "empyreal heights of thought" upon reading "those fall'n leaves which kept their green, / The noble letters of the dead." Nature is described as "red in tooth and claw" by this poem, which inspired an iambic tetrameter quatrain with rhyme scheme ABBA to be called its namesake stanza. Its best-known lines come from section 27, in which the speaker concludes, "'Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all." For 10 points, name this 133-part poem on the death of Arthur Henry Hallam, written by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
In Memoriam A. H. H.
7

100230-)
The author of this play told its director Peter Wood that "everything to do with the play is in the play" and it was cancelled after just eight performances. This play originally contained a speech by the protagonist about his lost son Emanuel. This play's protagonist threatens that a wheel-barrow is coming for Petey's wife, who gives him a toy drum because of his ability to play the piano. The protagonist of this play wants to run away with (*) Lulu, but is told he will be taken to Monty to start a new life. During the title event of this play, the protagonist assaults Meg and is verbally abused by McCann and Goldberg who are visitors to the boarding house where this play takes place. For 10 points, name this absurdist play about Stanley who insists that his age is not changing on the day of the title celebration, a work by Harold Pinter.
The Birthday Party
7

100251-)
The author of this poem stated in its preface that "I have adopted the stanza of Spenser" instead of "the blank verse of Shakespeare and Milton... because in the latter there is no shelter for mediocrity; you must either succeed or fail." The imprisonment of one character in this poem is ended thanks to an earthquake shifting a cavern. Preceded by a dedication by Chapman, it opens "So now my summer-task is ended, Mary, And I return to thee, mine own heart's home." The eleventh of its twelve cantos contains the instruction (*) "fear not the future, weep not for the past." This poem concerns a revolution in the Golden City, in which the ruler of Argolis, Othman, is deposed by Laon and Cythna. Inspired by the failure of the French Revolution, for 10 points, name this political poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley, which doesn't really have anything to do with the title religion.
The Revolt of Islam
7

100271-)
Early in this work, the author compares the term "vates" with a term denoting "maker." This work reprimands those who would "play the hedgehog" since the central concept was "first light-giver to ignorance," and reflects on what Plato was said to have banished from his Commonwealth. This work centrally asserts that the central practice can lull unsuspecting victims into thinking they are being entertained before dropping some hard knowledge, yet is free to portray the ideal rather than being restricted to what humanity has actually accomplished. A response to Stephen Gosson's The School of Abuse composed while its author tirelessly rewrote a collection dedicated to the Countess of Pembroke, this work proclaims that the titular practice is uniquely superior to both philosophy and history. For 10 points, identify this tract published by the author of Arcadia, Philip Sidney, to answer criticism of creative writing exemplified by the titular genre.
The Defence of Poesy [or An Apology for Poetry; do not accept "The Defense of Poetry", since that's by Percy Shelley]
9

100284-)
In one early work by this man, Francis Andrew is a smuggler who meets Elizabeth while running away. In another, "D" is a loyalist from a foreign country involved in a civil war who is looking for support from Lord Benditch. This author of The Man Within also wrote a novel in which Charles Hale is chased by a gang led by Pinkie Brown. Another work by this author of The (*) Confidential Agent has Sarah refuse to divorce her husband in order to continue her affair with Maurice Bendrix. Another of his characters has an affair with Helen Rolt while serving as a British officer in Sierra Leone. That character, Henry Scobie, appears in The Heart of the Matter. For 10 points, name this author of Brighton Rock and The End of the Affair, who chronicled a priest's experiences in Mexico in The Power and the Glory.
Graham Greene
7

100301-)
In one work, this concept is described as being "enthroned in the hearts of kings" and is also described as "an attribute to God himself." In that work, this concept is said to sit above the "sceptered sway" of the "temporal power" of a king, and it is said to be "mightiest in the mightiest," since "it becomes the throned monarch better than his crown." In that play, one character asks "on what compulsion" he is required to respect this concept, to which another character responds that it (*) "droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven" and is "twice blest: it blesseth him that gives and him that takes" as part of a speech exalting this quality to try to convince Shylock to display it. For 10 points, name this concept which is the subject of a speech by Portia in The Merchant of Venice in which she declares that its quality is not strained.
mercy
7

100328-)
This author wrote a poem about a woman who weeps for the "wished return" of her husband before sending him a letter across "Three seas and many a league of land." She wrote about a woman whose last words reference the love of the deceased Walter, which comprise a "last denial" of her faith, in her poem "Apostasy." In one of this author's novels, it is revealed that Mademoiselle Reuter and Mr. Pelet are engaged, and that book ends with William (*) Crimsworth opening a school with his beloved Frances. This author wrote about an uprising at Robert Moore's mill in one work, and created a woman who works as Adele's governess before refusing an offer to accompany a missionary to India, opting instead to become the wife of the blind man she loves. For 10 points, name this author of The Professor and Shirley who wrote about the romance between Mr. Rochester and Jane Eyre.
Charlotte BrontÃ« [prompt on "BrontÃ«"]
7

100350-)
One character in this play poisons a pot of rice that he leaves as an alms donation, and one victim of that attack claims that at least she dies a Christian, to which the priest she is talking to responds that it is a shame that she died a virgin. Act three of this play opens with a conversation between a pimp, Pilia-Borza, and the prostitute Bellamira, whom a slave falls in love with at first sight. (*) Lodowick and Mathias kill each other in a duel in this play, both of them having been convinced that they shared a love interest. The protagonist is served by a slave named Ithamore in such efforts as convincing his daughter Abigail to join a convent to re-steal a hidden cache of his money. Later, that main character is killed in a trap he set for Calymath, causing him to fall into a boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name this drama about Barabas, a hater of Christians and Muslims, by Christopher Marlowe.
The Jew of Malta
7

100379-)
One character in this novel is convinced of the financial impossibility of accepting a gift of a horse named Queen Mab, while another character is perceived as distant after he reads newspapers the entire time during a house visit. A third character in this novel is first introduced when he holds up a line at a jewelry shop. A confusion arises in this book when a servant relates an account of a marriage by referring to the groom only by his last name. During a (*) rainstorm, one character suffers an injury to her ankle, leading her to be carried home by her eventual suitor. Sophia Grey marries a man in this book who had earlier seduced Eliza Williams, whose mother of the same name was loved by Colonel Brandon. Lucy Steele's engagement to Edward Ferrars collapses, while John Willoughby's indecencies are revealed. For 10 points, name this novel about the Dashwood sisters by Jane Austen.
Sense and Sensibility
7

100386-)
One poem by this author gives thanks to a "gentle artist" who had rekindled the speaker's "spirits of power" that had stirred his thoughts in "selfless boyhood." This author of "The Garden of Boccaccio" claimed that "Nature ne'er deserts the wise and pure" in a poem in which he claims that, to one of his friends, "No sound is dissonant which tells of Life." He wrote that "they are gone, and here must I (*) remain" in his poem "This Lime-Tree Bower My Prison," while he described "music slumbering on her instrument" in a poem addressed to "my pensive Sara," "The Aeolian Harp." He imagined a "romantic chasm" as part of a "savage place" where a river runs through "caverns measureless to man," and he also pictured a "damsel with a dulcimer." For 10 points, name this author who told of a "stately Pleasure-Dome" in his poem "Kubla Khan."
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
7

100404-)
This author wrote about Earth stirring "in her winter sleep" in a poem that ends "Despite the snow, / Despite the falling snow." In addition to writing "She Tells Her Love," this favorite poet of Val in A. S. Byatt's Possession told about the difference between "The Naked and the Nude." He recalls two girls' attempt to peek down his pants to learn about the male anatomy and learning about literature from George Mallory in an autobiographical work that tells of the (*) atrocities of World War One from the viewpoint of a member of the Royal Welsh Fusiliers. He described a character normally known as a bumbling, lame fool as only feigning his idiocy in a work partially based on Suetonius in which Livia schemes to ensure the succession of her son, Tiberius. For 10 points, name this author of Good-Bye to All That and I, Claudius.
Robert Graves
7

100469-)
The speaker of one poem by this author describes teeth that "seem for laughing round an apple" andends that poem by claiming that "God will grow no talons" at a young boy's heels. In another poemby this author, a character describes washing the blood off chariot wheels and says "courage wasmine, and I had mystery / wisdom was mine, and I had (*) mastery." This author of "Arms and the Boy"described the "blood" that is expelled from "froth corrupted-lungs" as being "obscene as cancer / bitter as thecud". In that poem, the speaker urges his friend to "not tell with such high zest / to children ardent for somedesperate glory" a famous Latin line penned by Horace. For 10 points, name this World War I-era poet of"Strange Meeting" and "Dulce et Decorum est."
Wilfred Owen [or Wilfred Edward Salter Owen]
7

100524-)
In one appearance, this character is introduced to a man who claims to be "Master Brook". In his earliest appearance, he angrily asks a friend "What a plague have I to do with a buff jerkin?" He calls another character an otter since "she is neither fish nor flesh, a man knows not where to have her." He gives a panegyric of himself in which he notes that to banish him would be "to banish all the world", after which he falls asleep behind a curtain while hiding from a sheriff. This character plans a highway robbery at Gad's Hill, but after executing it is promptly robbed himself by Poins and another character. In one appearance, this character is attacked by fairies after disguising himself as Herne the Hunter, and is also stuffed in a laundry hamper by Mistresses Ford and Page. Mistress Quickly briefly describes the death of this associate of Pistol, Nym, and Bardolph to his other former companion, Prince Hal. He is. For 10 points, name this fat knight who appears in Henry IV and The Merry Wives of Windsor.
Sir John Falstaff [or Jack Falstaff]
9

100534-)
In one poem by this author, the speaker says that he will stroke the silver hair of another character, who will then love him. That poem's speaker recounts how his mother told him that we are put on earth to "learn to bear the beams of love." He described an "invisible worm, / That flies in the night, / In the howling storm" in a poem in which "his dark secret love / Does thy (*) life destroy." In another poem, he commanded "Bring me my bow of burning gold" and "Bring me my chariot of fire" before proclaiming that he will not cease a mental fight until the title city has been built "In England's green and pleasant land." This author of "The Sick Rose" and "Jerusalem" asked "what art / Could twist the sinews of thy heart" and "What immortal hand or eye / Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?" For 10 points, name this author of "The Tiger" who wrote some Songs of Innocence and Experience.
William Blake
7

100545-)
A line from this play is the source of the name of a group of poets centered around Sir Walter Raleigh, the School of Night. Many have speculated that a character in this play "with two pitch-balls stuck in her face for eyes" is based on the Dark Lady of The Sonnets. Minor characters in this play include a page named Moth and the rustic Costard, who speaks the longest word in any Shakespeare play, (*) honorificabilitudinitatibus. Holofernes attempts to stage a masque of the Nine Worthies in this play, which also features an oath taken by Dumaine, Longaville, and the protagonist, attendants on King Ferdinand of Navarre. Those attendants fall in love with the attendants of the Princess of France, with Berowne falling in love with Rosaline. For 10 points, name this alliteratively titled Shakespeare comedy.
Love's Labour's Lost
7

100582-)
In one novel by this writer, Chester and Robinson offer the protagonist a job of collecting guano. Another of his characters discovers that when fog clears, a man's hands are on a dead man's throat. That novella sees a new captain quietly takes in the doppelganger Leggatt. This author wrote about a man who deserts an escort of Muslim pilgrims and moves to Patusan to escape his past. In another story by this author of "The Secret Sharer," the narrator lies to the lover of a dead ivory merchant whose last words were not about her but actually "the horror, the horror." That work featuring Kurtz is set on the Congo River and is narrated by Marlow. For 10 points, name this author of Lord Jim and Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad [or Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
7

100623-)
In the chapter "The Spell Seems Broken," this character agitatedly asks "What right have I given you to insult me," when aman begins to shower kisses on her arm. In successive fits, her father had beaten a horse and a servant boy, leading her to fearthat he might beat her mother next. As a child, this character cuts her own hair, pushes her cousin into the mud, and runsaway from home to join a band of gypsies, who take all her belongings before sending her home. This character is forced toreturn to St. Oggs from her boarding school when her father loses an extended lawsuit. After reading The Imitation of Christ,she enters a phase of piety and self-denial that only ends when she reacquaints herself with the hunchbacked son of her father'sarchrival. She becomes involved in a love triangle with her cousin's suitor Stephen Guest and Philip Wakem. At the end of thenovel this woman appears in, she drowns in the title river alongside her brother Tom. For 10 points, name this protagonist ofGeorge Eliot's novel The Mill on the Floss.
Maggie Tulliver [prompt on "Tulliver"]
8

100641-)
One character in this play delivers a monologue in which he claims that "success hath made me wanton" and that "All the wise world is little else, in nature / But parasites, or sub-parasites." One scene in it sees a discussion of the death of Stone, who may have been a spy, before the appearance of a mountebank. The title character claims that Plato said the "highest female grace is silence" when he is visited by (*) Lady Politic Would-Be, whose husband associates with Peregrine, a fellow Brit living in Venice. That title character is entertained by a troupe including Nano, Castrone, and Androgyno. The servant Mosca brings about the title character's infatuation with the virtuous Celia by comparing her to his gold and assists him as he fakes dire illness to con Corbaccio, Voltore, and Corvino. For 10 points, name this play by Ben Jonson in which the clever title character is named for a fox.
Volpone
7

100650-)
This essay quotes a speech by Vindice from The Revenger's Tragedy because it is "unfamiliar enough to be regarded with fresh attention." This essay describes how a poet stores countless feelings in his mind to combine "in unexpected and unfamiliar ways" in a work of art, using the analogy of a platinum catalyst in a reaction between oxygen and sulfur dioxide. This work argues that "The existing monuments form an ideal order among themselves, which is modified by the introduction of the new." It was published alongside (*) "Hamlet and his Problems" in The Sacred Wood. For 10 points, name this T.S. Eliot essay concerning an author's relationship to his predecessors.
"Tradition and the Individual Talent"
7

100664-)
The speaker of this poem mentions Death taking people to "where they never see the sun". In its thirteenth stanza, the speaker notes that while "butterflies may dread extinction", the addressee will "not die, it cannot be!" The entry of this poem's addressee is compared to that of "a ghostly cricket, creaking where a house was burned". Its speaker tells the addressee that although the soul is immortal, he can still picture the decaying city where the addressee lived, and asks "What of soul was left, I wonder, when the kissing had to stop." At the start of this poem, however, the speaker imagines the same city at its peak of glory, describing it as "where St. Mark's is, where the Doges used to wed the sea with rings." This poem is written in rhyming triplets of trochaic octameter, reflecting the difficulty of the piece for which it is named. It opens by telling the addressee "this is very sad to find!" and later describes that man as sitting "stately at the clavichord". For 10 points, identify this Robert Browning poem titled in part for a Venetian composer.
"A Toccata of Galuppi's"
9

100731-)
In a tribute to this poem, this poem's title subject is described as having "moved a poet toprophecies" and having "inspired a bard to win / ecstatic heights in thoughts and rhyme"; thattribute is by Thomas Hardy. This poem's speaker acknowledges that the subject of this poem hasnever known "love's sad satiety." The speaker of this poem asks the subject "what is most like thee?"and admits that its "presence (*) showers a rain of melody." The speaker describes the subject of this poemas having produced "hymns unbidden" like that of a "poet hidden / in the light of thought." This poem's titlecreature is a creator of "profuse strains of unpremeditated art" and is called a "blithe spirit". For 10 points,name this Percy Shelley poem addressed to the title bird.
"To A Skylark"
7

100736-)
In a scene, this character eats a ball of sugar placed beside the corpse of a small child, who had beenlaid beneath a giant cross in hopes of being revived. At the end of the novel this character appears in,a boy dreams of his mother reading him a story in which this character plays the part of JuliusCaesar in a play. This character earlier assumes the name of a hostage who was executed by thosesearching for him. His death is witnessed by a character who is giving the chief of police a (*) filling,the dentist Mr. Tench. This character, who is sheltered by Coral Fellows, is saved after Brigitta declares thathe is her father. This character is betrayed by the mestizo to The Lieutenant who is trying to eradicate theCatholic Church. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Graham Greene's novel The Power and the Glory.
the whiskey priest
7

100787-)
In this work, a character attempts to seduce another by claiming that she would have so many pearlsshe could afford to dissolve and drink them. When one character in this play makes up a story aboutspy baboons that live near China, another character claims that those are who the Mamelukes are. InAct Four of this play, multiple characters bear false witness against a woman at her (*) rape trial. Theprotagonist of this work disguises himself as a mountebank named Scoto. Sir Politic Would-Be appears in thiswork, in which the animal-inspired characters Voltore, Corbaccio, and Corvino scheme to be named the heirof the title character, whose servant is Mosca. For 10 points, name this comedy by about a Venetian noblemanwho pretends to be dying, by Ben Jonson.
Volpone
7

100798-)
One short story by this author sees Sir Lulworth destroy a letter in order to protect the innocence of his chef, while another story by him sees a woman pose as a governess and teach the Quabarl children using the titular method. This author of "The Blind Spot" also wrote about the "Chronicles" of a character who suggests that a missing baby may have been consumed by hyenas in "The Quest;" that character is named (*) Clovis Sangrail. Harvey gives his nephews "action figures" of John Herschel and John Stuart Mill in one of his works, while another ends with Georg and Ulrich being approached by wolves. This author of "The Toys of Peace" and "The Interlopers" wrote about Conradin inventing a religion revolving around a ferret as well as Frampton Nuttel's shock at seeing three supposedly dead men. For 10 points, name this author of "Srendi Vashtar" and "The Open Window."
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro
7

100821-)
One of this author's title characters calls himself a worm in describing how the nature of his sins is so much deeper than that of his fellow monks; that man later earns a doctorate in theology despite the censure of his father, Hans, and receives counsel from Johann von Staupitz.  In another work, this author wrote about a divorce lawyer who wants to get out of spending a weekend with his wife Anna to see his mistress, Liz.  That character, Bill Maitland, appears in his play (*) Inadmissable Evidence.  The death of his son Mick and the buildup of unpaid income taxes threaten the sanity of Archie Rice in his play The Entertainer.  In his best known work, the daughter of Colonel Redfern miscarries her baby but eventually reconciles with Jimmy.  For 10 points, name this member of the Angry Young Men, the playwright of Look Back in Anger.
John Osborne
7

100846-)
In The Indicator, Leigh Hunt praises the combination of "real melancholy" and "imaginative relief" in this poem, comparing its refreshment to the poet's imaginary wine. The speaker of this poem calls fancy a "deceiving elf," since she "cannot cheat so well / as she is famed to do." This poem praises the "dance, and Provencal song, and sunburnt mirth" found in a "beaker full of the warm south," though the speaker later decides to be "not charioted by (*) Bacchus and his pards." The speaker notes that he has "been half in love with easeful death," where he could escape "the weariness, the fever, and the fret." This poem describes a "drowsy numbnessÂ…as though from hemlock I had drunk," and it concludes by asking "Do I wake or sleep?" For 10 points, name this poem addressed to a "dryad of the trees," written by John Keats.
"Ode to a Nightingale"
7

100865-)
In this novel, the cross given to the protagonist by her favorite brother doesn't fit a chain given to her by a suitor she rejected despite that suitor revealing that he helped the protagonist's brother get a promotion in the navy. Comedic figures in this work include a lady who pays most of her attention to Pug and the idiotic Mr. Rushworth. Julia elopes with Mr. Yates, a character who had earlier suggested that the young people put on a performance of Lovers' Vows. After being sent to Portsmouth by her cruel aunt Mrs. (*) Norris because of her rejection of Mrs. Grant's brother, the protagonist of this novel brings her most sensible sister back to the title location as her replacement after Sir Thomas's return from Antigua. The timid protagonist of this novel rejects Henry Crawford and marries Edmund Bertram. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen novel about Fanny Price.
Mansfield Park
7

100887-)
This author wrote that "there is nothing new under the sun: / Until the ancient race of Time be run" in a poem in which "morning shall be cold and twilight grey" and a preacher says "All things are vanity." She wrote that it would be better for her lover to "forget and smile" than for "darkness and corruption" to leave "A vestige of the thoughts that once I had" in a poem in which she imagines herself "Gone far away into the silent land." In addition to writing "The One Certainty" and (*) "Remember," she created a character who "knew not was it night or day / As she turned home alone." That character had yielded to the repeated cries of "Come buy" from a group of creatures peddling their "orchard fruits." For 10 points, name this author who told of the sisters Laura and Lizzie in "Goblin Market" and contributed to The Germ as part of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.
Christina Rossetti [prompt on partial answer]
7

100922-)
One character in this work is deceived by a letter whose handwriting he discerns from c's, u's, and t's in a joke which is emphasized by the puzzled question of a foolish knight. Fabian observes the aforementioned trickery, which has been put together by a character he calls his "noble gull-catcher," Maria. In its opening scene, one woman is purported to be in mourning for seven years over the death of her brother, something that her uncle thinks can be cured via the attentions of (*) Sir Andrew Aguecheek. In this work, the fool Feste poses as Sir Topas the curate in order to further torment the yellow-stockinged and cross-gartered Malvolio. Meanwhile, Orsino's attempts to court Olivia fail when she marries a man she has mistaken for his servant Cesario. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean comedy set in Illyria about the shipwrecked twins Viola and Sebastian.
Twelfth Night
7

100946-)
R.H. Hopkins claims that, in this novel, the inconsistencies and improbable events in the narrative reveal the narrator's "hypocrisy." One character in this novel rudely follows every statement of Miss Skeegs and Lady Blarney with obnoxious cries of "Fudge." Later, that character's lettercase is opened and the letter within is misinterpreted as condemning the central family as opposed to the aforementioned ladies. A poem recited in this novel claims "And what is friendship but a name" as part of its overarching story about Edwin and Angelina. (*) Sophia is saved from drowning in a river and, near the end, Olivia is thought to be dead. However, her death turns out to be a trick by Ephraim Jenkinson and Mr. Burchell is revealed to be the uncle of Squire Thornhill. Arabella Wilmot and George Primrose are married at its end. For 10 points, name this novel about the titular clergyman by Oliver Goldsmith.
The Vicar of Wakefield
7

100980-)
This poet wrote compared "The nightingale's complaint" that "dies upon her heart" to his love for a person to whose chamber-window he had been led in a poem in which he arises "from dreams of thee," his "The Indian Serenade."  He wrote about a person who "went, unterrified, / Into the gulf of death" in an elegy where he bids us to weep even though "our tears  / Thaw not the frost which binds so dear a head," while he urged the people to "Rise like lions after slumber / In unvanquishable number" in a poem that describes murder as "wearing a (*) mask like Castlereagh."  In addition to penning "Adonais," written for John Keats, and "The Mask of Anarchy," written after the Peterloo Massacre, he wrote about the remains of a statue whose visage bore a "sneer of cold command."  For 10 points, name this British poet of "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
7

100986-)
In one appearance, this character deduces that a suicide note reading "I can't go on" could have been forged by being the start of a phrase such as "I can't go on Friday." In another appearance, this character goes on a tour of several homes in Great Britain in an attempt to clear the name of Michael Rafiel.  The chronologically final novel in which this character appears sees her help Gwenda Reed, who unknowingly buys a house in which she witnessed a murder as a child. She is sometimes a companion of her nephew, the novelist (*) Raymond West, and she lives in the village of St. Mary Mead, which is the setting of the novel The Body in the Library. Also appearing in The Moving Finger and Nemesis, for 10 points, name this elderly female detective created by Agatha Christie, probably her second-most famous creation behind Hercule Poirot.
Miss Jane Marple [accept either name]
7

100994-)
This author wrote that "death permits you / To arrange your hours / While he sucks the honey / From your lovely flowers" in his poem "Death May Be Ageing."  His only novel centers on three friends named Mark, Len, and Pete, the latter of whom falls in love with Virginia.  In one of his plays, the couple Suki and Russell berate each other for their infidelities while at a restaurant whose nameless waiter recounts the many famous acquaintances of his grandfather.  In addition to The Dwarfs and (*) Celebration, he created the blind Riley and the truck driver Bert, who refers to his van as a woman in a monologue delivered to his wife Rose, in his play The Room.  He also wrote a play in which the titular machine delivers orders for food to Ben and Gus, who are two hired killers.  For 10 points, name this British playwright of The Dumbwaiter.
Harold Pinter
7

101014-)
In one poem by this author, the speaker notes that "if anything might rouse him now / the kind old sun will know," leading him to question why the "fatuous sunbeams toil / To break earth's sleep at all?" This author of "Futility" described "the wildest beauty in the world" as not lying "calm in eyes" or in "braided hair" but rather mocking "the steady running of the hour" in a poem in which the speaker's claim that "here is no cause to mourn" is met with a rebuttal ending "let us sleep nowÂ…" delivered by the (*) enemy that the speaker killed. In another poem by this author of "Strange Meeting," "hasty orisons" come from "only the stuttering rifles' rapid rattle" "for those who die as cattle." This man also attacked "the old lie" in a poem describing a gas attack. For 10 points, name this author of "Anthem for Doomed Youth" and "Dulce Et Decorum Est."
Wilfred Owen
7

101025-)
The protagonist of this novel is shocked to learn that a prostitute that he is seeing has the same first name as his erstwhile mistress, causing him to leave her a large amount of money.  One character in this novel first considers the concept of sex while undressing in front of a mirror, becoming horrified at its impropriety.  One scene in this novel comically details how Mrs. Poulteney is turned away from the gates of heaven.  The protagonist's servant Sam's courtship of his beloved Mary acts as a foil to the protagonist's relationships, one of which begins with a series of meetings in the (*) Ware Commons while hunting for fossils.  The protagonist is initially engaged to Ernestina Freeman, but his affair with the title character, Sarah Woodruff, develops into several endings posited by the author.  For 10 points, name this novel about Charles Smithson, written by John Fowles.
The French Lieutenant's Woman
7

101059-)
One character in this novel is astounded to find that a woman was concerned about him when he almost drowned, a fact that he only knows about because he had John intercept that woman's correspondence to her parents. Late in this novel, it is revealed that Miss Goodwin is the daughter of Sally Godfrey and the protagonist's prospective husband, though the protagonist agrees to treat the girl as a niece. The protagonist of this novel is prevented from living with Lady (*) Davers, and she refuses an offer of fifty guineas a year to become the wife of the reverend Arthur Williams. She hurts her ankle while attempting to escape from the oversight of Mrs. Jewkes, and, despite being kissed, fondled, and having her dress torn by Mr. B, she is able to become his wife by not sleeping with him, in an example of "virtue rewarded." For 10 points, name this novel by Samuel Richardson.
Pamela
7

101074-)
Near the end of one story by this author, the protagonist compares the child in her womb to ice. That story begins with the protagonist watching men return home and her train-driving father telling her that he is going to remarry. In another of his stories, the sexually frustrated title character tries to thwart an orderly's relationship, ultimately driving the orderly to murder him and subsequently die of thirst. One story by this author of "The (*) Prussian Officer" ends with Elizabeth Bates cleaning up a vase of the title flowers before attending to her dead husband Walter, who suffocated after being trapped by a cave-in at the coal mine. This author also wrote a story in which a boy named Paul predicts the winners of horse races by riding on the title toy. For 10 points, name this author of "Odour of Chrysanthemums" and "The Rocking-Horse Winner," who also wrote Lady Chatterley's Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence
7

101087-)
One of this author's last novels features two characters who both believe they are Lord Lucan. The narrator of one of this author's novels uses the phrase pisseur de copie to insult the stalkerish character Hector Bartlett. The narrator of that novel, Mrs. Hawkins, is an editor at a publishing house. This author of Aiding and Abetting wrote about Barbara Vaughan travelling through the title structure in Jerusalem in one novel. She wrote about the death of the (*) elocution instructor Joanna Childe, a member of the May of Teck Club, in another novel, whose title refers to both the economic and physical stature of its title characters. This author of The Mandelbaum Gate also wrote about a schoolteacher who cultivates fascism in her namesake "set," including Sandy, Rose, and Mary. For 10 points, name this Scottish author of The Girls of Slender Means and The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.
Muriel Spark
7

101113-)
This poem describes how "The ancient pulse of germ and birth / Was shrunken hard and dry" and tells of how all the other spirits on earth "Seemed fervourless as I."  It compares a crypt to a "cloudy canopy" and the wind to a "death-lament" in a metaphor between the landscape and the corpse of the century, referring to the end of the Victorian era in the 1800s.  Even though "all mankindÂ… Had sought their household fires" and there was "So little cause for carolings," this poem's title figure emits a "full-hearted (*) evensong / Of joy illimited," choosing to "fling his soul / Upon the growing gloom."  Beginning by describing a "spectre-grey" frost and the speaker leaning "upon a coppice gate," this poem's titular bird is described as "frail, gaunt, and small," and "In blast-beruffled plume."  For 10 points, name this poem by Thomas Hardy.
"The Darkling Thrush"
7

101136-)
One character in this novel becomes convinced that he is the target of a poisoning attempt when his wineglass shatters in his hand, leading to a chaotic night for the protagonist.  A group of pirates in this novel use the hidden basement of a chateau to store their treasure, leading them to abduct Ludovico when he tries to keep watch over some chambers in that chateau that had been shut up due to a death in them nineteen years earlier.  Ludovico's beloved, the loquacious (*) Annette, serves as a maid to this novel's protagonist, who suffers from the deaths of her parents.  That protagonist is beloved by Dupont, but her heart remains with a man she met while traveling in the Pyrenees, Valancourt.  For 10 points, name this novel in which Montoni controls the titular castle, including his time holding Emily St. Aubert there, written by Ann Radcliffe.
The Mysteries of Udolpho
7

101169-)
This poet described a figure who "Could by industrious valour climb / To ruin the great work of time,/ And cast the kingdom old / Into another mould". This author wrote the lines "But these, while Iwith sorrow pine, / Grew more luxuriant still and fine". The title figure of a poem by him "could notcease / In the inglorious arts of (*) peace." The speaker of another of his poems says that what he does tothe grass, Julianna does to his thoughts and him. This poet of "An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Returnfrom Ireland" and "The Mower's Song" suggests "rolling up all our sweetness into one ball" in a poembeginning "Had we but world enough and time". For 10 points, name this author of "To His Coy Mistress".
Andrew Marvell
7

101173-)
Characters in this novel spill ink on their blouses on purpose because they enjoy getting the stainsremoved by their science teacher. One character in this novel has imaginary conversations withcharacters from other novels, such as Alan Breck and Mr. Rochester. Another character in this novel,who wears a green uniform from her previous school, insists on being called Joyce Emily and diesafter running off to Spain to fight for (*) Franco. After becoming a nun, a character in this novel changesher name to Sister Helena and writes The Transfiguration of the Commonplace. That character has an affairwith the art teacher Teddy Lloyd. It focuses on the title character's "set", who attend the Marcia Blaine Schoolfor Girls. For 10 points, name this novel about a Scottish schoolteacher, by Muriel Spark.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie
7

101181-)
One character in this play explains another's disposition by saying that he was born of a sea-maid ortwo stock-fishes, and that his urine is congealed ice. A character in this play says "We must not makea scarecrow of the law" to explain his harsh judgment of a man who impregnated a young woman.In this play, a character's execution is avoided when the head of the (*) pirate of Ragozine is substitutedfor his own. A nobleman in this play disguises himself as a friar to arrange for the jilted Mariana to sleep withher fiancÃ©, in place of a woman who refused to sacrifice her virginity to the man whom the Duke left incharge of Vienna. For 10 points, name this play in which Angelo asks Isabella to sleep with him in exchangefor pardoning her brother Claudio, a "problem play" by William Shakespeare.
Measure for Measure
7

101191-)
In Royall Tyler's The Contrast, Jonathan watches a performance of this play, but believes himself tohave observed a real family at church. One character in this play declared that he has only beengiven "avadavats and Indian crackers", when in fact he was sent 12,000 pounds. A money-lendingJew named Moses helps another character in this play disguise himself as "Mr. (*) Premium" todetermine his nephew's loyalty. Lady Teazle is unfaithful to Sir Peter with his adopted son, but resolves toleave Lady Sneerwell's group at the end of this play. For 10 points, name this play about Charles and JosephSurface, as well as the title group of gossipers, written by Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
The School for Scandal
7

101217-)
In this story, a character supplies her brother with letters of introduction for all of her formeracquaintances at the location he is visiting. The main character of this short story awkwardly tries toinform an old lady of all his sicknesses because he believes that strangers "are hungry for the leastdetail of one's ailments and infirmities." At the end of this story, a man and his sons (*) arrive on thepurported third anniversary of the date they went missing. The narrator of this story states "romance at shortnotice" is a certain 15-year-old girl's specialty. Framton Nuttel visits a house occupied by Vera and hergrandmother Mrs. Sappleton, in this story. For 10 points, name this story in which Mrs. Sappleton waits forher husband and three sons to arrive home through the title portal, written by Saki.
"The Open Window"
7

101225-)
At the deathbed of one character in this novel, the narrator notes that the smell of death in the roomhas been replaced by the smell of roasting. When another character in this novel is discoveredreading a romance novel in his study, he passes it off as a way to improve his command of English.The narrator of this novel is asked to give "the sex talk" to his employer's godson. This novel'snarrator does not react to the news of his father's (*) death because it takes place during a meetingbetween the Prime Minister and von Ribbentrop hosted by his employer, who is accused of having Nazisympathies. Its narrator journeys to Little Compton in order to meet with the former housekeeper Mrs.Kenton. For 10 points, name this novel about the butler Stevens, written by Kazuo Ishiguro.
The Remains of the Day
7

101253-)
This poet wrote of a god that "bade betwixt their shores to be" the "unplumb'd, salt, estranging sea" in a poem that states "we mortal millions live alone." This author of the Marguerite poems wrote another poem inspired by Joseph Glanvil that begins "Go, for they call you, Shepherd, from the hill." He requested that "love, let us be true to another" in a poem where the world seems "to lie before us like a land of dreams." In that work by this poet, the "turbid ebb and flow / Of human misery" results from an "eternal note of sadness." For 10 points, name this author of "The Scholar-Gypsy" who wrote of a darkling plain where "ignorant armies clash by night" in "Dover Beach."
Matthew Arnold
7

101288-)
One poem by this man describes a land "in which it seemed always afternoon" and mariners who "will not wander more." He wrote "Four gray walls, and four gray towers / Overlook a space of flowers" in a work in which a man says "Tirra lira." That poem describes a woman's eyes who are cursed to fixate on her weaving after her crystal mirror breaks. This poet of "The Lotos Eaters" wrote "Theirs not to reason why, theirs but to do and die" in a poem that begins "Half a league, half a league, half a league, onward." That poem describes six hundred men that rode into the "jaws of death." For 10 points, name this author of "The Lady of Shallot" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade." 
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
7

101291-)
This poem's title was stolen from a poem in Kipling's Plain Tales from the Hills, and it was written in 1909 when its author was a grad student at Harvard. This work's narrator ponders how he was "smoothed by long fingers." It references Marvell's "To His Coy Mistress" with the line "To have squeezed the universe into a ball." It ends by noting "human voices wake us, and we drown." Earlier its speaker points out he had "measured out my life with coffee spoons." Also containing the dreary line "In the room the women come and go, talking of Michelangelo," this poem begins "Let us go then, you and I." For 10 points, name this meditative poem written by T.S. Eliot.
"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock"
7

101305-)
This work says only the "curse in a dead man's eye" is more horrible than an "orphan's curse," and the speaker of this poem blessed snakes that are unaware. A woman who "thicks blood with cold" and is "as white as leprosy" wins a dice game in this poem, which features Life-In-Death telling of slimy things that "did crawl." Men in this work hail a "Christian soul" in God's name. It maintains "He prayeth best, who loveth best" and describes a figure with the line "water, water, everywhere / Nor any drop to drink." Its speaker tells the Wedding Guest of his voyage where he used a crossbow to shoot an albatross. For 10 points, name this poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
7

101335-)
One character in this play chimes in with supportive asides like "Ay touch him, there's the vein" and "You are too cold"during an audience in which his companion quips that "it is excellent / To have a giant's strength; but it is tyrannous / Touse it like a giant." In another scene, one of its characters proposes that a woman who lost her dowry in a shipwreck beused as a sexual decoy. Early in this play, a drunkard named Froth is apprehended by a policeman who calls him a"benefactor" rather than a "malefactor." One character substitutes a (*) pirate's head for that of the lover of Juliet and donsthe guise of a friar for the majority of the play. Elbow and Mistress Overdone appear in a subplot of this play, in which Isabella isoffered the safe release of her brother Claudio in exchange for her virginity after laws against fornication are enforced in Vienna.For 10 points, name this comedy by Shakespeare, in which Duke Brabantio hands over power to Angelo.
Measure for Measure
9

101358-)
One character in this work recalls hearing another recite a genealogy in which "Neckwus begat Fleckwus, King of Spit.And Fleckwus spoke out of his chinkle-chankle!" Another character in this work dreams that he ritually removes theentrails from children as a priest in Homeric Greece. The court magistrate Hesther Salomon is a minor character in thisplay, whose central character cries out "Ek!" at night and initially exclusively speaks in advertising jingles. Its protagonistsees his father Frank during a date at an adult (*) movie theater and later interrupts his lovemaking with Jill Mason in a barn.This play's main character admits wanting to remove the bit from several creatures belonging to Harry Dalton, symbolicallyfreeing them from enslavement. The main character of this play secretly rides Nugget while naked. For 10 points, name this playabout the psychiatrist Martin Dysart and his patient Alan Strang, a Peter Schaffer work inspired by the real-life blinding of horses.
Equus
9

101373-)
The narrator of this poem chooses "Never to stoop" when imminent stooping follows. It describes a "white mule" the title figure "rode with round the terrace" and a "bough of cherries some officious fool broke in the orchard." The speaker of this work "gave commands; / Then all smiles stopped together." He is also upset that his "gift of a nine-hundred-years-old name" is not valued. Near its end, this poem describes the Claus of Innsbruck's sculpture of Neptune taming a seahorse. This poem tells of a lady "looking as if she were alive" in a Fra Pandolf work. For 10 points, name this poem about a painting of the Duke of Ferrara's dead wife, a poem by Robert Browning.
"My Last Duchess"
7

101381-)
Anthony Burgess fictionalized this figure as a woman from the East Indies named Fatimah, but called Lucy. This breath of this woman reeks and is compared to perfumes, and "When she walks, she treads on the ground." Even though the narrator loves to hear her "speak," he knows that "music hath a far more pleasing sound." Although the narrator has seen "roses damasked, red and white," there are no such roses in this figure's cheeks. In fact, "black wires [are] grown on her head" and coral is redder than this figure's lips. However, the speaker realizes his love for this figure "is rare as any she belied with false compare." For 10 points, name this woman, whose "eyes are nothing like the sun."
The Dark Lady [accept: "My Mistress" or Shakespeare's Mistress, or Shakespeare's Lover," or any other equivalents that mention's Shakespeare's love,]
7

101406-)
A fiddling man in one novel by this author soothes a bull by playing a nativity hymn, and that man is among the workers who sing to increase milk yield on the dairy farm of Richard Crick. The drowning of two lovers in another of this man's works leads Thomasin to marry Diggory Venn. A blind diamond merchant becomes a preacher in his novel featuring Eustacia Vye and Clym Yeobright. Another of his title characters travels to claim kinship with an aristocratic family but is raped by Alec in the woods. That woman marries Angel Clare and is hanged after stabbing Alec. For 10 points, name this author of The Return of the Native and Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
7

101427-)
On this character's deathbed, she finally delivers her husband a child after making him promise that he will not marry aJewess. She is the first title character of a "romance upon romance" by William Makepeace Thackeray, a sequel to thenovel in which she appears. After the death of the eponymous character, the narrator of Edgar Allan Poe's story "Ligeia"marries this character but questions her identity. This character's weeping in the torture room produces sympathy fromde (*) Bracy. After the tournament at Ashby-de-la-Zouche, this character removes the helmet of the Disinherited Knight afterbeing crowned the Queen of Love and Beauty by him. King John lusts after this character, whose marriage to Athelstane wasarranged by her father Cedric of Rotherwood. Readers were unhappy that this character, not Rebecca, ended up with theprotagonist of the novel in which she appears. For 10 points, name this wife of Ivanhoe in a novel by Sir Walter Scott.
Lady Rowena
9

101450-)
One poem by this author describes "sweepings from butchers' stalls, dung, guts and blood," as well as "drowned puppiesÂ…dead cats and turnip tops." This author of "A Description of a City Shower" predicted the death of John Partridge with the penname Isaac Bickerstaff. In one novel by this author, the narrator sees Laputa before going to the Balnibarbi. In another work, this author discusses a method of "preventing the children of poor people" from being a "burden" to their parents by suggesting the people of Ireland eat babies. His best known novel features voyages to Lilliput and Brobdingnag. For 10 points, name this satirical author of "A Modest Proposal" and "Gulliver's Travels."
Jonathan Swift
7

101484-)
This novel ends with the sentence "And they were both ever sensible of the warmest gratitude towards the person, who by bringing her into Derbyshire, had been the means of uniting them." After being refused an appointment within the clergy, one character in this book uses Ms. Younge to seduce Georgiana. After a marriage proposal is refused, Charlotte Lucas marries Mr. Collins. Minor characters include Lady Catherine de Bourgh and Lydia, who elopes with George Wickham. The central character of this work is a woman that rejects the proposal of the nephew of Lady Catherine but later marries him. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen novel where Elizabeth Bennett marries Fitzwilliam Darcy.
Pride and Prejudice
7

101493-)
One character that occupies this city incorrectly sings "I Dreamt that I Dwelt" repeatedly in a work where Maria is foretold an early death as she touches wet clay in a Halloween game. A man who writes for The Daily Express is called a "West Briton" by Miss Ivors at the Morkans' Party in this city, which is also where that man thinks about how his wife loves the deceased Michael Furey. A child in this city obsesses over the sister of Mangan but buys her nothing from the title bazaar. A discussion central to "Ivy Day in the Committee Room" and Gabriel Conroy's thoughts are described in a collection named for this city. For 10 points, "Araby" and "The Dead" are set in what city, whose residents title a James Joyce collection?
Dublin
7

101541-)
Linne Mooney discovered that this author's assistant Adam Pinkhurst was the subject of a poem in which this author cursed him with "the scall" because his "negligence and rape" forced this man to "rub and scrape". The narrator of a poem by this man visits a constantly-moving wicker house and a golden palace under the guidance of an eagle he meets in a glass temple. The narrator of another of his poems falls asleep while reading Cicero's Somnium Scipionis, whereupon (*) Scipio Africanus guides him to the temple of Venus, where three tercels plead for the hand of a formel eagle. His most famous work opens by describing the "condition", "array", and "degree" of the central group in the General Prologue, and includes sections narrated by Harry Bailey and a number of pilgrims. For 10 points, name this author of The House of Fame, The Parliament of Fowls, and The Canterbury Tales.
Geoffrey Chaucer 
7

101585-)
This poem describes the title circumstance with the phrases "earth has stopped the ears" and "Eyes the shady night has shut." Its addressee is a "townsman of a stiller town" and will be admired by the "strengthless dead" who will flock to gaze at him. This work describes how "the name died before the man" after telling the title figure "you will not swell the rout." He also is said "to slip betimes away from fields where glory does not stay." Warning "early though the laurel grows, it withers quicker than the rose," it ends with the line "the garland briefer than a girl's." For 10 points, name this poem from A Shropshire Lad about a deceased runner, a work by A. E. Housman.
"To an Athlete Dying Young"
7

101630-)
This story is based off of Giovanni Boccaccio's epic poem Teseida. Late in this text, the god Saturn appears to tell the central woman which man she should marry. About halfway through this work, one character escapes from his jail by drugging his jailer, even though his companion had earlier been released on request of Pirithuous. Those two characters then each amass 100 men to vie for the hand of Emilie. It begins with a description of Theseus taking Ypolita as his wife, but this story itself centers on the rivalry between Arcite and Palamon. For 10 points, name this first story of The Canterbury Tales, which is told by a paragon of chivalric virtue.
The Knight's Tale [prompt on the Canterbury Tales, before mention]
7

101633-)
In this novel, "A Word With You On Your Cap-Ribbons" and "Hush, for Heaven's Sake!" are among the tracts passed out by a constantly-digressing member of the Mothers'-Small-Clothes-Conversion-Society. A servant in this novel named Rosana commits suicide by throwing herself into the Shivering Sands. One of its characters practices a variant of Virgilian Lots using a copy of Robinson Crusoe and comments on the unusual rose-cultivating hobby of the (*) detective Sergeant Cuff. Gabriel Betteredge is the first of this novel's many narrators. Ezra Jennings figures out that this novel's protagonist had been slipped some opium by a man who is eventually killed by a trio of Indians and revealed to be Godfrey Ablewhite. Franklin Blake and Rachel Verinder get married at the end of, for 10 points, which Wilkie Collins novel about the theft of the title jewel?
The Moonstone 
7

101673-)
The speaker of a poem by this author asks "Whose person or whose purse may be / the lodestar of your reverie?" as part of an internal monologue about the "Lazy laughing languid" title character. "Love Enthroned" and "The One Hope" bookend a collection by this man whose introductory poem declares "A Sonnet is a moment's monument". This author of "Jenny" translated the opening line of a Francois (*) Villon poem as "Where are the snows of yesteryear?" and wrote several parody poems about his pet wombat. The title character of his most famous poem had three lilies in her hand and seven stars in her hair as she "leaned out from the gold bar of heaven". For 10 points, name this poet of The House of Life and "The Blessed Damozel", a founder of the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood.
Dante Gabriel Rossetti [or Gabriel Charles Dante Rossetti]
7

101677-)
This character accuses another of "conjuring the moon / to stand auspicious mistress" and wounds himself after hastily faking a duel. A character based on this man fled to Vancouver to avoid the Vietnam War; that character's return to Zebulon County is the cause for a pig roast at the beginning of a 1991 novel. This basis for Jess Clark in A Thousand Acres gives a letter revealing his father's knowledge of an imminent French invasion to the Duke of (*) Cornwall. The line "Thou, Nature, art my goddess" opens this character's most famous speech, which mocks the "Fine word- 'legitimate'!" and includes the questions "Wherefore base?" and "Why bastard?" In a fifth-act speech, he debates whether to ally himself with Regan or Goneril. For 10 points, name this illegitimate son of the Duke of Gloucester, who attempts to usurp the position of his brother Edgar in King Lear.
Edmund
7

101712-)
A poem by this man describes "pining till time when reason rambled in it" and laments the death of a man who suffered "some fatal four disorders". The posthumous publication of most of this man's poetry was arranged by Robert Bridges. This poet, who termed the essential unique nature of a given thing its "inscape", wrote a poem whose title entity "gathers to a greatness, like the ooze of oil" and "will flame out, like shining from shook foil". While in Dublin, this author of (*) "Felix Randal" wrote "I Wake and Feel the Fell of Dark, Not Day", "Carrion Comfort", and his other so-called "terrible sonnets". He extolled "the achieve of, the mastery of the thing" in a poem that describes a "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon". For 10 points, name this author of "God's Grandeur" and "The Windhover", who pioneered sprung rhythm in poems like "The Wreck of the Deutschland".
Gerard Manley Hopkins
7

101729-)
This author wrote a play in which a character steps on his tortoise and accidentally shoots his hare shortly after using them to disprove Zeno's paradox. That play by this man also features the inspector Bones investigating the murder of McFee and includes appearances from a group of logical-positivist gymnasts. In a play by this author, a botanist who died of a monkey bite is revealed to be the terrible poet Ezra Chater, who challenges a main character to a duel after the latter's authorship of a negative review is revealed by (*) Lord Byron. In that play by this man, Hannah Jarvis discovers that the "hermit of Sidley Park" was actually Septimus Hodge, the tutor of Thomasina Coverly. For 10 points, name this author of Jumpers and Arcadia, a Czech-British playwright who used minor Hamlet characters in his Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.
Tom Stoppard [or Tomas Straussler]
7

101738-)
In a poem set during this event, Dai Greatcoat claims to have been present at the crucifixion of Jesus, and "The Queen of the Woods" is observed distributing garlands by a fictional character named John Ball. This event gave rise to "the modern versus habit" and was "more ironic" than any such event before or since, according to a Paul Fussell book whose title pairs it with Modern Memory. David Jones's "In Parenthesis" is set during this event, as is a poem whose speaker "escaped down some profound dull (*) tunnel" and encountered a man whose "dead smile" revealed that "we stood in Hell". A Jessie Pope poem advocating this event prompted another author to write a poem that begins "Bent double, like old beggars under sacks" and describes a man "guttering, choking, drowning" during a gas attack. For 10 points, name this conflict that inspired the poems "Strange Meeting" and "Dulce et Decorum Est" by Wilfred Owen.
World War I (or WWI; or the Great War)
7

101763-)
The narrator of this work dismisses the idea that the effect of music is experienced passively in a passage about his Saturday trips to see Giuseppina Grassini at the opera. In another section of this book, a servant drops a heavy trunk of books, endangering its narrator's attempt to escape from Manchester Grammar School. Its protagonist lives with a ghost-fearing orphan girl after moving to London, where he befriends a fifteen-year-old prostitute named Ann. Acute stomach (*) pains prompt its narrator's first encounter with what he refers to as a balm for "the wounds that will never heal" and "the pangs that tempt the spirit to rebel". This book is divided into sections titled for the "pleasures" and "pains" of the title substance. For 10 points, name this autobiographical work detailing the fantastic visions and dreams inspired by Thomas De Quincey's laudanum addiction.
Confessions of an English Opium-Eater
7

101809-)
The eleventh chapter of this novel opens with a description of a burning woman's heart leaping out of her body during an execution at a Roman amphitheater called "The Ring". Minor characters in this novel include Christopher Coney, who digs pennies out of a grave, and Mother Cuxsom and Nance Mockridge, who plot with Joshua Jopp to organize a "skimmity-ride" during which another character suffers her first seizure. The unexpected appearance of "the Widow (*) Newson" forces this novel's protagonist to abandon his relationship with Lucette Le Sueur, who as Lucetta Templeman later becomes the first wife of Donald Farfrae. At the beginning of this novel, the drunken protagonist sells Susan and Elizabeth-Jane, his wife and daughter, to a sailor. For 10 points, name this Thomas Hardy novel about Michael Henchard, who becomes the title municipal officer.
The Mayor of Casterbridge
7

101827-)
This novel's protagonist is disappointed that there are  no banners and "no Scottish monarch sleep[ing] below" in a plain chapel, after traveling in an open air four-seater carriage called a barouche. In this novel, the sailor William obsesses over whether a ship called the Thrush has left harbor. Susan and Betsey fight over their dead sister's knife in this novel, in which recollections of a bawdy performance at Lord Ravenshaw's estate inspire Mr. (*) Yates to cast his friends in a makeshift production of Lovers' Vows. The wealth of this novel's title locale comes from Sir Thomas's slave plantations in Antigua. This novel's protagonist is often reprimanded by Mrs. Norris, and refuses a bad marriage to Henry Crawford. For 10 points, name this novel in which Edmund Bertram marries Fanny Price, a ward raised at the title estate, the third major novel by Jane Austen.
Mansfield Park
7

101842-)
An extended simile late in this work describes a father passing by an empty house and lamenting after he sees his son hang on the gallows. The reigning scholarly edition of this text was annotated by University of Minnesota scholar Friedrich Klaeber. Its narrator notes that many desperate altar-offerings had to be intended for Hell, because the offerers hadn't yet heard of the Christian God. At least three funerals, including at the (*) beginning and end, give structure to this poem, the longest surviving production of a scop. This poem includes a time skip of "fifty winters" after a skeptic questions the protagonist's swimming prowess and a sword is melted by a descendant of Cain in an underwater lair near Heorot. For 10 points, name this poem in which the title Geatish warrior defends a mead-hall by slaying Grendel, an Old English epic.
Beowulf
7

101883-)
One of this author's poems describes "The moving waters at their priestlike task / Of pure ablution round earth's human shores" and says of the title thing "would I were steadfast as thou art". He outlined the "thoughtless chamber" and the "chamber of maiden-thought" as part of an analogy of human life he called the "mansion of many apartments", while in another letter he expressed admiration for Shakespeare's ability to exist in (*) uncertainty so that "the sense of Beauty overcomes every other consideration". The speaker of one of his poems claims to have been "half in love with easeful Death". That poem asks "Fled is that music:Â—do I wake or sleep?", opens "my heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains / my sense", and is addressed to a creature who "wast not born for death". For 10 points, name this Romantic poet who coined the term "negative capability" and wrote "Bright Star" and "Ode to a Nightingale".
John Keats
7

101888-)
This poet wrote that "Those that I fight I do not hate, / Those that I guard I do not love." Another poem by this person describes creatures that "scatter wheeling in great broken rings / upon their clamorous wings". Another poem of his describes a time when "shadows of the indignant desert birds" reel at the site of "a gaze blank and pitiless as the sun". That poem asks "What rough beast, its hour come round at last, slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?" Name this poet of "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death", "The Wild Swans at Coole", and "The Second Coming."
William Butler Yeats
3

101892-)
This novel is set between places named Pinchfield and Foxwood. One character in this novel is told that liberty is worth more than ribbons, and another character claims that it is Sunday seven days a week in Sugarcandy Mountain. Its Seven Commandments are eventually shortened to a single rule. In this novel, the song "Beasts of England" is taught by Old Major, and a group of characters adopts a Horn and Hoof Flag that has parallels to a hammer and sickle. Name this allegory of the Russian Revolution featuring the pigs Napoleon and Snowball, written by George Orwell.
Animal Farm (: A Fairy Story)
3

101919-)
Near the end of this novel, an officer says "I know. Jolly good show. Like the Coral Island." In one scene in this novel, Roger and Maurice destroy a sand castle, and one character camouflages his face with charcoal before hunting a pig. Two characters in this work find a downed pilot whom they claim to be a beast, which Simon finds to be false. Those two characters are twins who become known together as "Samneric" ["Sam 'n' Eric"]. In this work, the conch shell is broken when Piggy is crushed by a boulder. Name this work about English schoolboys alone on an island, written by William Golding.
Lord of the Flies
3

101941-)
In one of this author's works, the protagonist meets Rawdon Lilly after he leaves his wife Lottie. In addition to writing Aaron's Rod, he wrote about the relationship between mine owner Gerald Crich and Gudrun Brangwen in a sequel to The Rainbow. He also wrote a novel in which Gertrude Coppard marries the alcoholic miner Walter Morel, and their son Paul has an affair with Clara Dawes. This author of Women in Love also wrote about a woman whose husband Clifford is paralyzed due to a war injury and who has an affair with gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. Name this author of Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley's Lover.
D(avid) H(erbert) Lawrence
3

101963-)
One character in this work has a face so smooth that the narrator wonders if he is a gelding or a mare. Another character is as meek as a maid even though he fought in fifteen battles. Another character in this work is well-traveled, including three trips to Jerusalem, and has been married five times. That character asks for all women to find men who are young and meek after talking about a knight who learns what women want. It takes place during a pilgrimage to a shrine of Thomas Becket. Name this collection of stories told by a Pardoner, a Knight, the Wife of Bath, and others, written by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales
3

101965-)
This poet writes that the title concept of one poem "visits with inconstant glance / Each human heart and countenance." Another of his poems describes that which "chariotest to their dark wintry bed / The wingÃ©d seeds." This author of "Hymn to Intellectual Beauty" described a certain "trumpet of a prophecy" as "the breath of autumn's being." This man also wrote of "a traveler from an antique land" who describes a statue on which appears the engraving "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" Name this poet of "Ode to the West Wind" and "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
3

101985-)
Near the beginning of this play, a note-taker figures out that a man is from Selsey and a woman is from Lisson Grove after he is accused of being a copper's narc. One character in this play has been made "a consort for a king" while another character in this play receives money from Ezra Wannafeller for giving lectures. At the end of this play, the protagonist marries Freddy Eynsford Hill. This play is about a bet between Colonel Pickering and phonetics professor Henry Higgins concerning the flower girl Eliza Doolittle. Named after a legendary Greek sculptor, identify this George Bernard Shaw work that inspired the musical My Fair Lady.
Pygmalion (: A Romance in Five Acts)
3

102008-)
This work describes a painting showing a blindfolded woman with a lit torch located at the Central Station. One of the characters in this novel blows out a candle after another character dies. The character who died had put together a report for the International Society for the Suppression of Savage Customs on which he had hand-written "Exterminate all the brutes!" The final words of that dying character are "The horror! The horror!". In this work, a sailor on the River Thames [TEMZ] describes his experiences in Africa. Identify this work about Kurtz that is narrated by Captain Marlow, a short novel by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness
3

102030-)
The narrator of this novel is thought by the servant Joseph to have stolen a lantern, and that narrator is consequently attacked by dogs set loose by Joseph. One character is adopted from an orphanage in Liverpool and throws applesauce at another character. Hindley, whose wife Frances dies after giving birth to Hareton, hates that orphan. Nelly Dean tells the story of the house to the narrator of this novel, Mr. Lockwood, who rents a room at Thrushcross Grange. Identify this novel centering on the romance between Heathcliff and Catherine, a work by Emily BrontÃ«.
Wuthering Heights
3

102032-)
This poem asks "Can Honor's voice provoke the silent dust, / Or Flattery soothe the dull cold ear of Death?" before lamenting that "Full many a gem of purest ray serene, / The dark unfathomed caves of ocean bear." This poem claims that "The paths of glory lead but to the grave" and later describes how one of the people in the title location may be "Some mute inglorious Milton" or "Some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood." The first stanza describes how "The plowman homeward plods his weary way" after "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day." Name this Thomas Gray poem set in a cemetery.
"Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"
3

102052-)
One of this author's characters writes the long poem The Oak Tree, which is criticized by Nicholas Greene. This author also wrote an extended essay whose narrator is identified as "Mary Beaton, Mary Seton, or Mary Carmichael" and which describes a fictional sister of Shakespeare named Judith. Those works are Orlando and A Room Of One's Own. In another novel by this author, Mr. Ramsay tells his son James that the weather the next day will not allow them to visit the title location in the Hebrides [HEH-brih-dees]. Name this stream-of-consciousness author of To the Lighthouse.
Virginia Woolf
3

102054-)
This poet wrote "None can do Treason to us, except one of us two" in his work celebrating one year of love, "The Anniversary". Another work by this poet compares two lovers to the ends of a compass, saying, "Thy firmness makes my circle just." This writer's prose in Devotions upon Emergent Occasions supplied the title for Hemingway's For Whom the Bell Tolls. This poet of "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" wrote a work addressed to something that he claims "shall be no more." Name this Metaphysical poet whose Holy Sonnets includes the poem beginning "Death be not proud" and who wrote "No man is an island."
John Donne [dun]
3

102074-)
One character in this play tells a prince "To be your fellow you may deny me, but I'll be your servant whether you will or no." Those two characters are found later playing chess. This play ends with the protagonist speaking an epilogue to the audience that concludes "Let your indulgence set me free." Another character appears as a harpy to the "three men of sin" after he has been trapped in a tree. In this play, Stephano and Caliban attempt to overthrow the protagonist. Name this play in which Ferdinand and Miranda fall in love, a work by William Shakespeare in which Prospero conjures the title storm.
The Tempest
3

102076-)
The narrator of this poem describes how he was once "like a man / Flying from something that he dreads, than one who sought the thing he loved." The narrator of this poem says to another person that "thy memory be as a dwelling place" and "thy mind / Shall be a mansion." The narrator describes "when I again repose / here" after "Five years have passed" and the "Steep woods and lofty cliffs" of the title location have become "More dear". This work is set on July 13, 1798. Name this final poem in Lyrical Ballads about revisiting the title location near the river Wye with his sister, written by William Wordsworth.
"Lines Composed a Few Miles above Tintern Abbey (on Revisiting the Banks of the Wye during a Tour, July 13, 1798)" [accept Tintern Abbey, prompt on Lines]
3

102084-)
One story in a collection by this author is "The Road From Colonus", and in one work by this author, the protagonist travels to Tuscany with her friend Caroline Abbot. This author of Where Angels Fear to Tread and The Celestial Omnibus also wrote a novel that follows the Bast and Wilcox families. In another novel by this author, Cyril Fielding doesn't believe that Dr. Aziz raped Adela Quested in the Marabar Caves. Name this author of Howard's End and A Passage to India.
E(dward) M(organ) Forster
3

102118-)
In this novel, it is said that one character would never be a lion but is an amazingly good jackal. Another character in this novel gives a couple a gold coin after his carriage runs over their son. When that character, Marquis EvrÃ©monde, is murdered in his bed, the assailant leaves a note signed "Jacques". In this work, there is a strong resemblance between Sydney Carton and Charles Darnay, both of whom love Dr. Manette's daughter Lucie. Identify this novel by Charles Dickens, set in London and Paris during "the best of times [and] the worst of times".
A Tale of Two Cities
3

102140-)
One character in this novel is always late because "punctuality is the thief of time". The title character of this book is chased by a sailor after he hears someone refer to the title character as "the devil's bargain". The title character of this work forces scientist Alan Campbell to dispose of a man he stabbed to death after he is influenced by the "yellow book". That character had watched a performance of Romeo and Juliet involving his love interest, who later commits suicide by drinking acid and is named Sibyl Vane. Name this work in which Lord Harry Wotton inspires a character painted by Basil Hallward to pursue beauty and pleasure, the only novel by Oscar Wilde.
The Picture of Dorian Gray [do not accept answers including "Portrait"]
3

102152-)
In a novel by an author with this last name, Clara Bowden marries Samad Iqbal's friend Archie Jones.Shortly before a paperweight is destroyed, a fictional character with this last name realizes that he isbeing watched from behind a painting in a room he rented above Charrington's shop. An author withthis last name wrote On Beauty and White Teeth. A fictional character with this last name falls in lovewith Julia and is betrayed by O'Brien, who turns out to work for the Thought Police, and he ends thenovel in which he appears deciding that he loves Big Brother. For 10 points, identify this last nameshared by British author Zadie and Nineteen Eighty-Four's protagonist Winston.
Smith [accept Zadie Smith or Winston Smith]
6

102206-)
The parents of the protagonist of this novel are called Pee and Em. At the beginning of this work, the designs on the characters' clothes include a spider on the narrator, a hand on Pete, a flower on Georgie, and a clown's face on Dim. Much later, the narrator jumps out the window upon hearing a symphony composed by Otto Skadelig, a result of him undergoing the Ludovico Technique. The narrator of this novel talks in a teenage slang combining English and Russian that is called nadsat. Name this work in which Alex and his violent gang hang out in Korova Milkbar, a dystopian novel by Anthony Burgess.
A Clockwork Orange
3

102208-)
A poem by this person claims he will see a tree "hung with snow" fifty more times and describes that tree as "Wearing white for Eastertide". This poet of "Loveliest of Trees, the Cherry Now" wrote a poem in which a man who eats his "victuals fast enough" says that "Malt does more than Milton can / To justify God's ways to man." This poet wrote "And early though the laurel grows / It withers quicker than the rose" in a poem that begins "The time you won your town the race / We chaired you through the market place." Name this poet whose collection A Shropshire Lad includes his works "Terence, this is stupid stuff" and "To an Athlete Dying Young".
A(lfred) E(dward) Housman
3

102228-)
This author wrote of an orphan who is helped by Colonel Creighton after he is separated from Teshoo Lama. This author wrote about that boy working for Mahbub Ali in Lahore before looking for the "River of the Arrow". In a story by this author, Darzee sings about the death of Nag, and Teddy and his family are threatened by Nagaina [nah-gah-ee-nah]. In one of this author's novels, the only being in the forest not afraid of fire attacks Shere Khan with a burning branch. Name this author of Kim and "Riki-Tiki-Tavi" who created the characters of Baloo, Bagheera, and Mowgli in The Jungle Book.
(Joseph) Rudyard Kipling
3

102239-)
In one work by this author, a hunting party is guided by a blank piece of paper to a mysterious land. In another work by this author, a mob is confused whether to shout "Less taxes, more bread" or "More Bread, Less taxes". This author of "The Hunting of the Snark" and Sylvie and Bruno also wrote a work in which the title character is followed by her cat Dinah. This man created the Queen of Hearts in addition to the Cheshire Cat. Name this author of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
Lewis Carroll [or Charles (Lutwidge) Dodgson]
3

102250-)
This novel claims that Betty Martin could no more read writing than Hebrew, making it suspicious that she knew who the letter on the pincushion was addressed to. That letter tells Miss Briggs about a marriage to a man who is unable to inherit either his aunt's or his father's estate. This work begins at a school for girls at Chiswick Mall, and it follows one of the students who is eventually widowed when her husband dies at Waterloo. That woman gives birth to George and eventually marries William Dobbin. In this work, Lady Jane and Sir Pitt Crawley raise the son of Becky Sharp. Name this work about Amelia Sedley, written by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair
3

102270-)
Zeal-of-the-Land Busy and Dame Purecraft appear in one of this man's plays about the "enormities" at the title place. That work is Bartholomew Fayre, and in another of this man's works, Kno'well employs Brainworm to spy on his son. In another comedy by this author, the title Venetian nobleman and his servant Mosca dupe three possible inheritors of the nobleman's fortune. This man also wrote about Captain Face, who is actually Jeremy, swindling money in the absence of his master during the plague. Name this Jacobean playwright who wrote Every Man in His Humor, The Alchemist, and Volpone [vawl-POH-nay].
Ben Jonson
3

102290-)
One character in this work has trouble handling a question asking for the first thing he remembers, eventually responding that he has forgotten the question. Another character, who says that actors are the opposite of people, is known as The Player. An attempt to explain a series of unusual events in this play without invoking the redistribution of wealth invokes will, the stoppage of time, divine intervention, and the vindication of a logical principle. This play involves a performance of The Murder of Gonzago, and it begins with a character repeatedly saying the word "Heads." Name this play focusing on two minor characters from Hamlet written by Tom Stoppard.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead
3

102300-)
This man wrote a poem in which the narrator meets "the enemy you killedÂ…you jabbed and killed". This poet claims that "Not in the hands of boys but in their eyes / shall shine the holy glimmers of goodbyes." One of his poems describes a man who failed to put on his gas mask in time and thus plunges at the narrator "guttering, choking, drowning". That poem take its title from a Horace phrase described as "The old Lie." A sonnet by this poet of "Strange Meeting" opens "What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?" Name this poet of "Dulce Et Decorum Est" [DULL-kay et day-KOR-um est] and "Anthem for Doomed Youth."
Wilfred (Edward Salter) Owen
3

102320-)
In this novel, one character verifies his story to a group of men, including a Medicine Man, a Psychologist, and a Journalist, by producing two flowers from his pocket. The protagonist of this novel notices that a red rock is actually a giant crab, and the protagonist had previously entered the Palace of Green Porcelain and believed that he was in a communist society. The protagonist saves Weena from drowning while in that society, which is made up of ape-like Morlocks and fragile Eloi. Name this H. G. Wells novel in which the protagonist travels to the future.
The Time Machine
3

102322-)
The title character of this poem rides a "white mule" which "would draw from herÂ…approving speech" in the same way as a "bough of cherries" from "some officious fool". The narrator of this poem asks "Who'd stoop to blame / This sort of trifling?" just after lamenting that the gift of his "nine-hundred-years-old name" is given no more weight than any other gift. The title person of this poem "had a heartÂ…too soon made glad" and appears in a painting by FrÃ¡ Pandolf, "looking as if she were alive". Name this poem about the Duke of Ferrara and his previous wife, by Robert Browning.
"My Last Duchess"
3

102331-)
After this person gave a lecture following a massacre, he was moored in China by his nephew. After his ship was captured by Turkish pirates, this character ended up a slave in Sallee [sah-LAY] in what is now Morocco for a time until he escaped with Ismael and Xury. After discovering a group of cannibals from their leftovers, this character shot at them and saved a prisoner, whom he renamed Friday. Name this castaway and subject of a Daniel Defoe novel.
Robinson Crusoe (accept either)
3

102357-)
This poem asks, "Was there a man dismayed?" In the last stanza of this poem, the speaker asks, "when can their glory fade" before asking the reader to honor the title action. The title group, or "all that was left of them," had "came through the jaws of Death." In this poem, the title group knew that "theirs not to reason why, theirs but to do and die." Name this poem in which the six hundred rode into the valley of death, written by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
"Charge of the Light Brigade"
3

102369-)
In this work, Pluto restores the sight of a blind man, while Proserpina [PROW-sur-pee-nah] gives that man's unfaithful wife a good excuse. One story in this collection describes two mothers-in-law laying accusations of treachery against the daughter of a Roman emperor. In another, Absalom takes a hot iron to the buttocks of Nicholas, and in another a knight learns what women want. The storytellers in this work are journeying to the shrine of St. Thomas a Becket. Name this collection of stories penned by Geoffrey Chaucer. 
The Canterbury Tales (accept "The Merchant's Tale" until "collection")
3

102390-)
This character was granted knighthood in an enchanted place before saying goodbye to his best friend. A creature "of no brain," he gave a companion a special pencil case to facilitate a friend's writing. This resident of the Hundred Acre Wood got stuck at Rabbit's house after eating too much honey. Name this best friend of Christopher Robin, a fictional bear created by A.A. Milne.
Winnie the Pooh (accept either underlined answer, accept Edward Bear)
3

102399-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist stole dark glasses, sideburns, and clothes from a theatrical shop in Iping. In another novel, this author wrote of a group of cannibals that tried to trap the protagonist inside the pedestal of a white sphinx. He wrote of Griffin experimenting with making his cells transparent. He also wrote of a man who encountered the Morlocks and Eloi and travelled to 802,701 AD. Name this author of The Invisible Man and The Time Machine.
Herbert George Wells
3

102416-)
This author wrote of a Single Gentleman who sought to aid his brother, who gambled away the income from the title establishment. In another novel by this author, Monsieur Blandois [mon-sur blan-dwah] blackmailed the title character's employer regarding the withholding of funds. This author wrote of Orlick's attack on Mrs. Joe Gargery, who took in her brother Pip. Name this author of David Copperfield and Great Expectations.
Charles Dickens
3

102450-)
In this play, a dustman refuses an offer of ten pounds, as it may lead him to save money. That character later becomes upset that he is lecturing for the Wannafeller Moral Reform World League. One scene in this play is complicated by the arrival of a family who believes that one person is using the "new small talk." That family is the Eynsford Hills. The protagonist in this 1912 work is a phonetician who wagers that in six months he can pass a cockney flower girl as a duchess. Name this play in which Eliza Doolittle is taught by Henry Higgins, penned by George Bernard Shaw.
Pygmalion
3

102453-)
This character lost his shadow for a short time after a window was shut behind him. Jane eventually becomes his mother, and Jane sends her daughter Margaret to fill that role. He nearly died after becoming trapped on Marooners' Rock. The Lost Boys ended up with a mother after this character taught the Darling children to fly. Accompanied by Tinker Bell, name this "boy who would not grow up," created by Sir James Barrie.
Peter Pan
3

102461-)
Before losing a fight, this character said he would be damned if he cried "hold, enough." His wife encouraged him to "screw his courage to the sticking-place" in order to succeed. One of this character's soliloquies[suh-LIH-luh-kwees] states, "out, out, brief candle," and, "Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow, creeps in this petty pace from day to day." He could only be vanquished once Birnam wood came to Dunsinane [DUN-sih-nane] and by someone not born of woman. Name this killer of King Duncan, the title character of a Shakespeare play set in Scotland.
MacBeth (prompt on "Thane of Fife" or "Thane of Cawdor")
3

102469-)
This poet wrote that "The things which I have seen I now can see no more" in a poem in which the speaker asks "Where is it now, the glory and the dream?" This poet wrote of a Hermit sitting alone in his cave in a poem that describes the mind as "a mansion for all lovely forms." The speaker of that poem described sitting under a dark sycamore near the river Wye [why]. Name this author of "Ode: Intimations of Immortality" and "Tintern Abbey" who collaborated on Lyrical Ballads with Samuel Coleridge.
William Wordsworth
3

102478-)
This character met his brother at the Diogenes [die-O-jeh-nees] Room, where he offered to help Mr. Melas. Earlier, this character claimed that his brother Mycroft was greater than he was but averse to interruptions. This character lured Chicago crook Abe Slaney out of hiding by using drawings of dancing men. He caught John Clay breaking into a vault after Clay had created a fictional league as part of the scheme. Name this fictional detective created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Sherlock Holmes (accept either underlined part)
3

102563-)
One of this author's plays opens with a scene in which a man tells his wife that she went to Geneva without her passport. In that play by him, Charlotte annoys her playwright husband by supporting a soldier imprisoned for burning a wreath. One character created by this author declares sex to be "the attraction Newton left out" and models a fractal created by a girl who died in a fire on her 17th birthday. In one play by this author of The Real Thing, grouse-hunting records reveal that Lord Byron never shot a poet at Sidley Park, and Hannah Jarvis attempts to identify a mysterious "hermit." For 10 points, name this playwright who created Thomasina Coverley in Arcadia.
Tom Stoppard
7

102572-)
One person with this occupation is described as having hair that "curled like a lamb's back" before it was shaved off. Another of these people criticizes adults who "are gone to praise God and his priest and King" at Church. The former of these people envisions an angel coming down with a key to open up "coffins of black" and concludes, "If all do their duty, they need not fear harm." The latter person with this occupation is described as a "little black thing among the snow" in a poem whose cry, "'weep! 'weep!" echoes its companion poem in Songs of Innocence. For 10 points, name these subjects of two William Blake poems, children who worked as slave labor in a hazardous occupation emblematic of the Industrial Revolution.
chimney sweeps [or chimney sweepers]
7

102594-)
A female addressee in this poem is told, "Nay, smile not at my sullen brow, Alas! I cannot smile again." Alphonse de Lamartine, dissatisfied with this poem's conclusion, published a "last stanza" for it. This poem describes a place with "society, where none intrudes," which incites the speaker to rhapsodize, "I love not Man the less, but Nature more," in its "Apostrophe to the Ocean." This poem's author, who is essentially indistinguishable from the title character, provides a description of a Spanish bullfight and being shipwrecked in Albania, and its fourth canto describes tours through Ferrara, Florence, and Rome. For 10 points, name this long narrative poem ostensibly about a young noble's travels through Europe, written by Lord Byron.
Childe Harold's Pilgrimage
7

102629-)
In one poem, this man wrote, "the stroke of eight is the stroke of Fate that makes a man accursed, and Fate will use a running noose for the best man and the worst." In another work, he wrote, "The nineteenth-century dislike of realism is the rage of Caliban seeing his own face in a glass." That aforementioned poem by this man was published under the name "C.3.3," referring to the author's room, and was inspired by the hanging of Charles Thomas Woolridge. He declared, "All art is quite useless," in the preface to his only novel, and he observed that "each man kills the thing he loves" in a famous poem. For 10 points, name this poet of "The Ballad of Reading Gaol" who wrote The Picture of Dorian Gray.
Oscar Wilde
7

102633-)
In one novel by this writer, Mr. Brodsky's drunkenness obliges him to use an ironing board as a crutch to reach his conductor's podium. In another of his novels, the protagonist watches his father inspecting the steps where he dropped a tray as if to find a "precious jewel." That protagonist of his drives across the country to find a woman now named Mrs. Benn. In the former novel, this author wrote of an amnesiac pianist preparing to perform in an unnamed European town. The protagonist of the latter novel by this man eventually acknowledges Oswald Mosley's influence over his former employer, Lord Darlington. For 10 points, name this ethnically Japanese British novelist of The Unconsoled and The Remains of the Day.
Kazuo Ishiguro
7

102669-)
A character in this novel initially confuses a woman with a ballet dancer named Sonia, and that character later scrawls a poorly-spelled letter warning his roommate to stay away from Marleen. The protagonist of this novel pretends to sing madrigals at a party where he falls asleep with a lit cigarette and sets a table on fire. This novel features a pretentious artist whose voice is often described as "braying," named Bertrand. This novel climaxes with the title character drunkenly imitating his boss while giving a speech on "Merrie England," after which he leaves town with Christine Callaghan. For 10 points, name this novel whose title character is the history professor James Dixon, a work of Kingsley Amis.
Lucky Jim
7

102701-)
The protagonist of one of this author's novels sees a shipwreck survivor lying on a stretcher and clutching a stamp-album. In one of his novels, a fat man named Jose ignores the pleas of some people in a cemetery and is often asked to "come to bed" by his wife. In another, a woman consults a ouija board while investigating the death of "Kolley Kibber." This author of a novel in which Pinkie blinds himself with acid and jumps off a cliff also wrote of Major Henry Scobie's suicide. In another novel of his, a priest follows the yellow-toothed mestizo to a cave, where he is caught by the Lieutenant. For 10 points, name this author whose novels include The Heart of the Matter and The Power and the Glory.
Graham Greene
7

102733-)
A 1936 staging of this play was set in Haiti, called the "voodoo" version, and was directed by Orson Welles for a Harlem theater. William Macready's performance as the title character of this play was interrupted by riotous supporters of Edwin Forrest in the Astor Place Riot. A Peter Hall staging of it earned laughs when actors used real leaves to represent the trees of Birnam Wood. The title character of this play claims that life is "but a walking shadow" in a soliloquy about how "tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow creeps in this petty pace from day to day." For 10 points, name this supposedly cursed Shakespeare play commonly referred to as the "Scottish Play."
Macbeth [prompt on the "Scottish Play" until it is read]
7

102737-)
In this poem, the Sabbath is said to ring "slowly in the pebbles of the holy streams." This poem compares a place to "a wanderer white with the dew" before stating "it was all shining, it was Adam and maiden." One figure in this poem allows the speaker to be "golden in the mercy of his means" and in the "heyday of his eyes." The speaker of this poem describes how he was "honoured among foxes and pheasants" and "famous among the barns," and it is set during "the lamb white days." The speaker claims "I sang in my chains like the sea" even though "Time held me green and dying" at the title farm. For ten points, name this poem set "when I was young and easy under the apple boughs" and written by Dylan Thomas.
"Fern Hill"
7

102766-)
One of this author's novels features a woman who spends her time betting on horse races with the help of horoscopes. In a novel by this author, the protagonist uses a false beard to disguise himself as "The Complete Man" and invents "pneumatic trousers." Maurice allows himself to be shot by the fascist Brotherhood of Freemen in one of his novels, and that novel opens with Walter Bidlake's mistress complaining about her pregnancy. This author of a novel about Philip Quarles also created a character who whips himself at a lighthouse after visiting the World State. For 10 points, name this author of Crome Yellow and Point Counter Point who wrote about John the Savage in Brave New World.
Aldous Huxley
7

102768-)
The speaker of one poem by this author warns the reader to "look not left or right," because "in all the endless road you tread there's nothing but the night." This author published the authoritative English translation of Marcus Manilius's Astronomica, the capstone of his efforts as a Classical scholar. This man discussed his unrequited same-sex love for Moses Jackson in his posthumously-published essay "De Amicitia." One of this author's poems contains gems of wisdom like "early though the laurel grows / it withers quicker than the rose," addressed to a boy who was "chaired... through the market place." For 10 points, name this poet who included "When I Was One-and-Twenty" and "To An Athlete Dying Young" in A Shropshire Lad.
A. E. Housman [or Alfred Edward Housman]
7

102793-)
In the original printing of this poem, its author drew a tree on the right side of the page with its branchesseparating some of this poem's stanzas. The companion poem to this work mentions one given"clothing of delight" and "such a tender voice / making all the vales rejoice." The narrator of this poemsasks if God smiled "when the stars threw down their spears / and water'd heaven with their tears." Thispoem's speaker asks "Did he who made the lamb make thee?", and it appears in its author's collectionSongs of Experience. For 10 points, name this poem that describes the title creature's "burning bright /in the forests of the night," written by English poet William Blake.
"The Tyger"
6

102808-)
One poem from this collection calls its addressee a "liberal and princely giver, who hast brought the gold and purple of thine heart." The last poem in this collection concludes, "Instruct thine eyes to keep their colors true, and tell thy soul, their roots are left in mine." The author of this collection asks not to be loved "except for love's sake only" and to be called by her "pet-name." This collection's best-known poem lists "freely, as men strive for right" and "purely, as they turn from praise" among the answers to the opening question, "How do I love thee?" For 10 points, name this collection of fourteen-line love poems byElizabeth Barrett Browning.
Sonnets from the Portuguese
7

102816-)
This poem describes a "love so much refined that ourselves know not what it is, inter-assured of the mind." In its third stanza, the speaker claims that "trepidation of the spheres" is "innocent," though "moving of th' earth brings harms and fears." This poem uses the simile "like gold to aery thinness beat" to describe the expansion of two souls. It ends by stating, "thy firmness makes my circle just, and makes me end where I begun" after expounding the metaphor of the speaker and his lover as the two legs of a compass. For 10 points, name this John Donne poem attempting to dispel the sadness of a farewell
"A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning"
7

102831-)
This character warns, "Time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides; who cover faults, at last shame them derides." A man tells this character that in prison they will "sing like birds i' th' cage" and laugh at the "gilded butterflies" trying to succeed in court. She marries the male hero in a rewriting by Nahum Tate of the play in which she appears. In another character's last entrance, he carries this woman's body and cries, "Howl, howl, howl, howl!" This character marries the King of France after getting in trouble for telling her father she loves him, "according to my bond; no more nor less," when that man is dividing his kingdom among his three daughters. For 10 points, name this youngest daughter of King Lear.
Cordelia
7

102862-)
In this novel, a woman discovers her husband's former lover by opening a coffin with a screwdriver and finding hair the same color as the one in his watch. This novel's female lead takes Liddy's advice and impulsively stamps a valentine reading, "Roses are red, violets are blue" with the phrase "Marry me." That woman in this novel, the mistress of Weatherbury Farm, hires a shepherd who gave up farming after his dog chased his two hundred sheep off the edge of a chalk-pit. In this novel, after Boldwood goes to prison for shooting Sergeant Troy, Gabriel Oak is free to marry Bathsheba Everdene. For 10 points, name this Thomas Hardy novel with a pastoral setting.
Far from the Madding Crowd
7

102883-)
A man shows this character his method for tying shoes after she compliments his boots. This woman does not marry a biologist acquaintance as a mutual friend wishes. While she is sitting on a lawn, another character nearly runs into her reciting "The Charge of the Light Brigade." This character becomes angry after a man tells her, "women can't write, women can't paint." This woman and Charles Tansley are both guests of a family whose mother dies in the section "Time Passes," and whose father annoys his son James by telling him the rain will prevent James from visiting the novel's title structure. For 10 points, name this painter staying with the Ramsays in To the Lighthouse.
Lily Briscoe [or Lily Briscoe]
7

102887-)
This poem sarcastically declares, "a worshipful woman was this one," after describing the ugliness of an old maidservant. The use of the term "wodwo" for "wild-man" in this poem is preserved by Simon Armitage's recent translation. Opening "once the siege and assault was ceased at Troy," this poem uses a rhyme structure called the "bob and wheel." In this poem, a man receives a deer, a boar, and a fox in exchange for three kisses. That character accepts a girdle from Bertilak's wife before being nicked on the neck as part of a beheading game that he started the prior Christmas Eve. For 10 points, name this work of the Pearl Poet featuring a knight of King Arthur and a giant of a certain color
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
7

102897-)
A dirge in this play concludes that "golden lads and girls all must, like chimney-sweepers, come to dust." A prince in this play has a woman awoken with an aubade about a lark that sings "at heaven's gate." Another character in this play wakes up with a prophetic tablet on his chest after seeing his father Sicilius in a dream. In this play, Cornelius foils a plot by substituting a sleeping potion for real poison. The Italian villain of this play steals a bracelet and identifies a mole on the protagonist's breast to prove her infidelity. Thus, in this play, Iachimo wins a bet with Postumus by pretending to have slept with Imogen. For 10 points, name this late Shakespeare play titled for a king of ancient Britain.
Cymbeline
7

102933-)
One of this author's plays opens with a meeting between the journalists Owen and Mara in Cuba. In another of this author's plays, Roger Tramplemain attempts to find a renter for a house whose owner, Philip Brent, dresses as an Arab sheikh. In that play, both Brent and the sheikh are played by Frederick Fellows, who rehearses along with Brooke Ashton and the stage manager Tim Allgood. This author of Donkeys' Years and Clouds wrote a play about a performance of the farce Nothing On. He used the structure of that play, Noises Off, in another play, in which a character compares Margrethe to a nucleus and the title city to an atom. For 10 points, name this British dramatist who wrote about a meeting between Werner Heisenberg and Niels Bohr in his play Copenhagen.
Michael Frayn
8

102946-)
Near this work's beginning, its narrator tells the reader to skip over any offensive sections, while its finalsection is a "Retraction." One character in this work gives a lengthy demonstration of how to harangue ahusband, and says that she liked her fifth husband the best because he was best in bed. At the end ofthat section of this work, a husband yields "mastery" to his ugly wife, whereupon he removes a curtainand sees that she is now young and beautiful. In the second section of this poem, Theseus imprisonsPalamon and Arcite, who then battle over Emily. For 10 points, name this long poem narrated by peoplelike the Knight and the Wife of Bath, by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales
6

102966-)
One of this author's poems is addressed to a character who, despite being male, has a "woman's gentleheart" and "woman's face with nature's own hand painted." Another of his poems claims that Deathshall not "brag thou wander'st in his shade," "so long lives" that poem which "gives life to thee." Thatpoem is one of this author's "Fair Youth" poems. This author lends his name to a type of poemconsisting of three a-b-a-b quatrains followed by a rhyming couplet, for a total of fourteen lines. For 10points, identify this British poet, whose 154 sonnets were mostly in iambic pentameter and include onebeginning "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?"
William Shakespeare
6

102983-)
A character in this novel enjoys reading the Bible, but only for the violent passages in the OldTestament. A character in this novel wears a mask of "Peebee" Shelley while carrying out a crime. Thisnovel's protagonist receives a visit from his corrections officer P.R. Deltoid for his chronic truancy. Itopens at a bar where patrons can drink milk laced with psychedelic drugs. The protagonist of this novelis reconditioned to have an aversion to "ultra-violence" through a process called the LudovicoTechnique. For 10 points, name this novel about the classical music-loving Alex DeLarge, which waswritten by Anthony Burgess.
A Clockwork Orange
6

102985-)
One character in this novel chops firewood through the winter for a family whose cottage he later burnsdown. In this novel, Felix accidentally teaches a character French while reading Ruins of Empires to Safie.The title character of this novel is blamed for the murder of a friend who nursed him for four months,Henry Clerval. In this novel, the nanny Justine is hanged for the murder of the title character's brotherWilliam. Near its end, the narrator's fiancÃ©e, Elizabeth, is murdered on their wedding night. Its titlecharacter chases the murderer to the North Pole, where he meets Robert Walton. For 10 points, namethis Mary Shelley novel about the "monster" created by the title doctor.
Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
6

103020-)
A poem written in response to this poem mentions the trees at Ecbatan, the gate at Kermanshah, andPalmyra's street. That response to this poem imagines lying "face downward in the sun" and feeling "theshadow of the night" come on. This poem states that "The grave's a fine and private place" andsuggests "Let us roll all our strength and all / Our sweetness up into one ball." Archibald MacLeish wrotea poem addressed to this poem's author. In this poem, the speaker would wait until "the conversion ofthe Jews," but hears "Time's winged chariot hurrying near." For 10 points, name this poem that begins"Had we but world enough and time" and was written by Andrew Marvell.
"To His Coy Mistress"
6

103036-)
In this novel a female lead says "I could be a good woman if I had five thousand a year." This novel endsby asking "which of us is happy in this world? Which of us has his desire? or having it, is satisfied?" Nearthe beginning of this novel, one of its female leads throws a dictionary out of a carriage while leavingMiss Pinkerton's school. At a ball in this novel, Rawdon Crawley finds out that he is being sent toWaterloo. In this novel, the bully Cuff tries to beat up George Osborne, who is saved by Dobbin.Throughout this novel, Dobbin is absurdly loyal to Amelia Sedley, Becky Sharp's friend. For 10 points,name this "novel without a hero" by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero
6

103067-)
This character is laughed at after trying to express "mankind's essential illness" by asking, "What's the dirtiest thing there is?" After helping some children pick fruit, this character admires the butterflies and flowers in a secluded clearing. This character faints after imagining that he is "in the mouth" of a figure who calls him a "poor, misguided boy." This character is killed amid shouts of "Cut his throat! Spill his blood!" after bringing news about a dead parachutist, and his body is surrounded by glowing fish as it floats out of the lagoon. For 10 points, name this Christ- like boy who is murdered by Jack's followers in William Golding's Lord of the Flies.
Simon
7

103084-)
This character becomes furious when another character threatens to cut off his testicles and preserve them in a hog's turd. This character stresses that God forbids swearing in the Ten Commandments even before homicide. His possessions include a mitten whose wearer is allegedly ensured a bountiful harvest and the bone of a sheep once owned by a Jew. This man uses the Latin motto "Radix malorum est cupiditas " in all his speeches. He describes drunkard residents of Flanders whose discovery of a stash of gold under an oak tree impels them to kill each other. For 10 points, name this religious conman from Chaucer's Canterbury Tales who tells of three friends who attempt to kill Death.
the Pardoner
7

103092-)
A character in this novel is nearly incriminated for saying that George Washington could eventually become as famous as George III. In this novel's chapter, "The Sea Still Rises," Foulon is murdered and his mouth is filled with grass. In a celebrated passage from this novel, hundreds of people scramble to drink the wine spilled from a broken cask on the street. The banker Mr. Lorry writes a note reading, "Recalled to Life," near the beginning of this novel. The protagonist of this novel is incriminated for being the nephew of the Marquis St. Evremonde, but is saved by his look-alike Sydney Carton. For 10 points, name this novel set during the French Revolution written by Charles Dickens.
A Tale of Two Cities
7

103095-)
In this play, a man complains about seeing a maid at a library and tells a woman that girls should not learn to read. A character in this play confronts his lover in her dressing room after learning that she had been singing and dancing in his absence. This play climaxes at King's- Mead-Fields, where one character is upset to learn the identity of "Delia," the object of his love letters. In this play, Lucius O'Trigger convinces Bob Acres to challenge "Ensign Beverly" to a duel over Lydia Languish, unaware that he is actually Jack Absolute. For 10 points, name this play that features the mangled speech of Mrs. Malaprop, a work of Richard Sheridan centered on some competing suitors.
The Rivals
7

103144-)
This poet's relationship with his psychologist W. H. R. Rivers is treated in Pat Barker's Regeneration trilogy. In an autobiographical series of novels by this poet, the protagonist is saved by the intervention of David Cromlech, who is a thinly-veiled version of Robert Graves. This author of Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man ended a poem telling "you smug-faced crowds with kindling eyes" to "sneak home and pray you'll never know the hell where youth and laughter go." This author of "Suicide in the Trenches" also described a soldier who drowns in the mud trying to retake lost ground. For 10 points, name this author of "Counter-Attack" and other poems about his time in World War I, who was a personal hero to Wilfred Owen.
Siegfried Sassoon
7

103175-)
This poem was inspired by a passage mentioning "beasts of chase and game" in Samuel Purchas'sPilgrimage. At the end of this poem's second stanza, "ancestral voices prophesying war!" are heard. Thispoem advises "all should cry Beware! Beware! his flashing eyes, his floating hair." The speaker of thispoem has a vision of an "Abyssinian maid" playing a dulcimer. This poem's composition was allegedlyinterrupted by the appearance of a "Person from Porlock," and it mentions "caverns measureless toman" as well as "Alph, the sacred river". For 10 points, name this poem in which the title emperordecrees a "stately pleasure dome" at Xanadu, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
"Kubla Khan"
6

103222-)
In a poem referencing this poem, people visit this poem's author and appeal to him: "you wrote wewere heroes once, sir. Please, write we are starving now." That poem by Rudyard Kipling is about the"Last of" the title group of this poem. The subjects of this poem were "storm'd at with shot and shell, /While horse and hero fell," with the survivors returning "thro' the Jaws of Death / Back from the mouthof Hell". Though "someone had blundered," it is not for this poem's characters "to reason why"because "Theirs but to do and die." For 10 points, the fateful offensive of 600 cavalrymen at Balaclavawas immortalized in what poem by Alfred Lord Tennyson?
"The Charge of the Light Brigade"
6

103297-)
The speaker of this poem describes himself as "Politic, cautious, and meticulous" and "Full of highsentence, but a bit obtuse" before declaring that he is "Almost, at times, the Fool". This poem's speakerrecalls having "measured out [his] life in coffee-spoons" and asks himself "Do I dare to eat a peach?"This poem's speaker comes to terms with being a deferential attendant lord, "glad to be of use" and hisstatus as "not Prince Hamlet, nor...meant to be." The speaker of this poem mentions a room in which"the women come and go talking of Michelangelo." For 10 points, name this poem that begins, "Let usgo then, you and I," written by T.S. Eliot.
"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" [prompt on "Prufrock"]
6

103322-)
In a poem by this author, the "Spinner of the Years" says "Now!" and a certain event takes place "In asolitude of the sea / Deep from human vanity." In addition to that poem about the sinking of the Titanic,he penned a poem taking place when "all mankindÂ…sought their household fires." That poem's speakerheard the sound of one "in blast-beruffled plume" while he "leant upon a coppice gate." This poet of"The Convergence of the Twain" and "The Darkling Thrush" also wrote a novel about a woman whosurrenders to police at Stonehenge after killing her rapist Alec. For 10 points, identify this British authorwho wrote about the wife of Angel Clare in Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
6

103358-)
This author is the titular subject of a poem whose speaker describes lying "face down beneath thesun" at "earth's noonward height" and feeling "the always rising of the night". This authordescribed a "willing soul" as transpiring "at every pore with instant fires" in a poem which alsonotes "the grave's a fine and private place". One of his speakers reminisces about a time "whenJuliana came, and she, what I do to the (*) grass, does to my thoughts and me." This author of a quartetof poems about Damon the Mower pleads "Let us roll all our strength and all / our sweetness up into oneball" in a poem that describes "Time's winged chariot hurrying near". For 10 points, name this poet wholamented "Had we but world enough, and time" in "To His Coy Mistress".
Andrew Marvell [accept "You, Andrew Marvell"]
5

103513-)
. Act II of this play begins with discussion of a storm that wrecked most of a Turkish fleet, though Montanosoon spies the protagonist's surviving ship. After stabbing himself, one character in this play says he will"die upon a kiss." This play opens with the antagonist claiming that the protagonist is making "the beastwith two backs" with Brabantio's daughter. After mishearing discussion of a handkerchief discovered byBianca, the protagonist of this play becomes convinced his wife is having an affair with Cassio. For 10points, identify this Shakespeare play in which the title "Moor of Venice" is tricked into smothering hiswife Desdemona by the treacherous Iago.
Othello [or The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice
6

103532-)
A poet from this movement called "the best portion of a good man's life" his "little, nameless,unremembered, acts of kindness and of love." Critics from this movement wrote Characters ofShakespeare's Plays, Tales from Shakespeare and "On the Knocking at the Gate in Macbeth." A poetfrom this movement tried to use "language really spoken by men." A critic from this movement wroteConfessions of an English Opium Eater. A poet from this movement claimed, "all good poetry is thespontaneous overflow of powerful feelings" in the preface to Lyrical Ballads, which includes "TinternAbbey." For 10 points, name this movement of Thomas De Quincey and William Wordsworth.
English Romanticism [accept word forms like Romantics] 
6

103547-)
This writer described how Garry "could not breathe beneath the load / Of the dead bodies" in a poem about the death of"six thousand veterans practis'd in War's game." In another poem, this writer explained that "The eyeÂ—it cannot choosebut see; We cannot bid the ear be still," explaining why this writer sits on an "old grey stone" instead of reading books.The subject of one of this author's "sonnets dedicated to liberty" has "a voice whose sound was like the sea; Pure as thenaked heavens, majestic, and free." This author of (*) "Expostulation and Reply" wrote that he "never felt a calm so deep" aswhen he saw a city sunrise so majestic that "Earth has not anything to show more fair." This author counted the "five summers,with the length / Of five long winters!" that had passed since his visit to a structure on the river Wye. For 10 points, name thispoet who told Milton that he "shouldst be living at this hour" and wrote "Upon Westminster Bridge" and "Tintern Abbey."
William Wordsworth
9

103576-)
One nine-line poem of this sort exhorts "My lady sweet, arise: Arise, arise" and begins "Hark, Hark! The lark at heaven'sgate sings." Cloten speaks that poem of this kind after summoning several musicians to play underneath Cymbeline'swindow. One poem with this title grinds to a halt as "telephones crouch, getting ready to ring / In locked-up offices," soonbefore "postmen like doctors go from house to house." That poem with this name suggests that we fear "no sight, nosound, no touch or taste or smell" despite religion, "that vast moth-eaten musical brocade / Created to pretend we neverdie." Troubadours contrasted this type of poem, also called an alba, with a (*) serenade. This format lends its name to a poemwhose speaker comprehends his mortality after waking to "soundless dark;" that poem opens "I work all day, and get half-drunkat night," and was written by Philip Larkin. For 10 points, name this poetic format that literally means "dawn song."
aubade [accept alba before mention]
9

103593-)
During a stay in Maiano in Italy, this man wrote a series of essays called the "Wishing Cap" articles, which formed thebasis for this writer's book about London titled The Town. This person isn't Keats, but wrote a sonnet that imagines thetitle poet seeing "his own Delphic wreath" while "running his fine fingers" through "a Lock of Milton's Hair." In anotherpoem, this writer admits that "I'm wary...I'm sad...health and wealth have missed me...I'm growing old," but it's all goodbecause the wife of Thomas Carlyle jumped out of her chair to perform the title action. In another of this writer's poems,the title figure encounters an angel writing in a "book of gold," and beseeches that angel to mark him among "The (*)names of those who love the Lord," but learns that his name "led all the rest." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote "JennyKissed Me" and wished largess unto the tribe of "Abou Ben Adhem," a Romantic who was good friends with Keats and Shelley. 
 [James Henry] Leigh Hunt
9

103596-)
In Evelyn Waugh's Decline and Fall, Paul Pennyfeather is taken to a prison in this place after being arrested for traffic inprostitution on the morning of his wedding day. A dissatisfied merchant in Paris returns to this location to build a schoolfor children in another novel, which contains a scene at the beginning in which a mass of people light a bonfire at thisplace's highest point, Rainbarrow. During a particularly stormy night in this place, two lovers drown; one of themprevents her mother-in-law from entering her house, hastening her death by (*) snake-bite, and the other owns the QuietWoman Inn in this place. As that novel begins, Diggory Venn is on a wagon ride to this place, which was depicted in a GustavHolst tone poem in memory of its creator's death. This place's inhabitants include Damon Wildeve, Eustachia Vye, and ClymYeobright. For 10 points, name this portion of moorland in Wessex County where Thomas Hardy set The Return of the Native. 
Egdon Heath [prompt on Wessex County until mentioned; accept Rainbarrow before it is mentioned] 
9

103603-)
One character in this novel praises amor matris between husband and wife but solemnly holds that "People do not knowhow dangerous lovesongs can be." A chapter in this novel progresses from a Latinate to an Anglo-Saxon to a Medieval to aRomantic and finally modern prose style, mirroring the nine-month gestation of human birth, in describing a dinner ofsardines and beer at the Holles Street maternity and the Gold Cup races. This novel, which uses the word "Chrysostomos"to describe the gold points in the perfect white teeth of one character, contains a (*) telegram reading "Nother dying comehome father." In an infamous scene in this novel, Gerty McDowell gradually reveals more of her legs while another charactermasturbates. It is capped off with the once-longest sentence of the English language, part of a soliloquy ending "yes I said yes Iwill yes." For 10 points, name this novel about one day in the life of Leopold Bloom, by James Joyce.
Ulysses
9

103607-)
Following this event, one participant indicated that he would have liked to see how a family could subsist on an income of600 pounds. One side in this event attempted to prevent an object from being sold at three and six. Leading up to it,another participant had a stack of paintings ransacked for any traces of pubic hair and was forced to remove thirteenpages from Pansies. Raymond Williams and Helen Gardner testified at this event. A right of challenge to involve a thirdfemale (*) juror was invoked by Gerald Gardiner, the opponent in this event of Reginald Manningham-Buller, who began bycataloging all instances of the words "cock," "shit," "cunt," and "fuck." The central criterion in this event was whether fourteenyear-old girls, wives, and servants could handle the moral depravity of a certain work. For 10 points, name this 1960 obscenitytrial, which allowed Penguin Books to continue publishing a D.H. Lawrence novel about a woman's affair with her gamekeeper.
Lady Chatterley's Lover obscenity trial [or Chatterley affair/brouhaha/thing/whatever; prompt on D.H. Lawrence
9

103635-)
This author contrasted the "fleet astronomer," "nimble diver," and "subtle chemist" with "Poor man!" who "searcheth round to find out death, but misseth life at hand" in his poem "Vanity." In another poem, this poet asked "Who says that fictions only and false hair become a verse" and "Is there in truth no beauty?" John Donne dedicated his Holy Sonnets to this author's mother Magdalen. The speaker of another of this author's poems declares "I struck the board, and cried, No more, I will abroad" before being calmed by a voice calling "Child" and replying "My Lord." He defended poetry by writing "a verse may find him who a sermon flies," and wrote a poetry collection which includes his poems "Jordan (I)," "The Collar," and "Easter Wings." For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet, an Anglican priest who published his poetry in his collection The Temple.
George Herbert
8

103677-)
One of this author's works contrasts figures like Plugson of Undershot and Sir Jabesh Windbag with the nobility of the twelfth century monk Abbot Samson. Anthony Trollope satirized this author as Dr. Pessimist Anticant in The Warden in response to one of his essay collections, which includes "Hudson's Statue." This author invented the figure of "Bobus" to represent corrupt businessmen, and depicted black workers on a Caribbean sugar plantation as subhuman in an essay which notoriously defends slavery, "Occasional Discourse on the Negro Question." He wrote a book tracing the progression from the "Everlasting No" to the "Everlasting Yea," which describes the "philosophy of clothes" developed by Diogenes TeufelsdrÃ¶ckh. He coined the term "dismal science" to describe economics, and argued that history consists of "the biography of great men." For 10 points, name this Scottish author of a history of the French Revolution and Sartor Resartus.
Thomas Carlyle
8

103700-)
This character reflects on a Persian rug received as a gift, likening the weaver who made it purely for aesthetic reasons toa man living his entire life with pleasure and dying knowing that he lived happily. The giver of that gift, the poet J.Cronshaw, dies of cirrhosis at the residence of this character, who renounces his religion after meeting a pious Americannamed Weeks during his year-long stay in Heidelberg. He has a brief fling with a penny-romance novelist named (*)Norah Nesbitt in the interlude of his destructive relationship with a waitress who prostitutes herself to feed her baby. The readerfirst meets this character in his aunt and uncle's vicarage in Kent. This character, who eventually becomes a doctor, spends themajority of the novel in which he appears conducting unhappy affairs with Miss Wilkinson and Mildred Rogers. For 10 points,name this man who marries Sally Athelney, the club-footed protagonist of W. Somerset Maugham's Of Human Bondage.
Philip Carey [accept either]
9

103728-)
This work invokes a comparison to "meats and viands" of "good and evil substance," reminding readers that Godcommanded Peter to "rise...kill and eat, leaving the choice to each man's discretion." This work includes quotations byNicolo Cini and Vincent Rabbatta, two of the "glutton friers" that its author disdains. The author of this work says that "Icannot praise a fugitive and cloister'd virtue...that never sallies out and sees her adversary," explaining that encounteringfalsehood can incite virtuous actions and comparing the hewing of Truth into a thousand pieces to the murder of Osiris.This work, whose title alludes to an oration by (*) Isocrates, argues that he "who kills a man kills a reasonable creature, God'simage; but he who destroys a good book, kills reason itself," and was written to protest the Licensing Order of 1643. For 10points, name this tract in which John Milton defended freedom of speech. 
Areopagitica: A speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicensed Printing to the Parliament of England
9

103742-)
One character in this novel begins preaching in Clerkenwell jail after being falsely imprisoned by Justice Buzzard, and provokes a scene by accidentally stepping on the constipated dog Chowder. Another scene in this novel takes place at a levee where the ambassador of Algiers mistakes the idiotic Duke of Newcastle for the Prime Minister. It ends with one of its characters being reunited with his illegitimate son Matthew Loyd and the marriage of George Dennison to Lydia Melford. This novel's protagonist writes letters to Dr. Lewis from Bath, and meets the title character when his coach overturns in Scotland. Other characters in this epistolary novel include the comic maid Winifred Jenkins and Captain Lismahago, who marries Tabitha during her travels with this novel's title character and her brother Matthew Bramble. For 10 points, name this novel by Tobias Smollett about the title servant's "expedition."
The Expedition of Humphrey Clinker
8

103751-)
One character in this poem remembers "hunting wild / After the wildest beauty in the world," which "mocks the steady running of the hour." That character declares "Courage was mine, and I had mystery / Wisdom was mine, and I had mastery," and regrets "Now men will go content with what we spoiled." In its second stanza, an "encumbered sleeper" springs up and stares at the speaker "With piteous recognition in fixed eyes," causing the speaker to realize "I knew we stood in Hell." It ends by imploring "Let us sleep now..." and laments "the truth untold / The pity of war, the pity war distilled." The speaker of this poem escapes a battle down "some profound dull tunnel" and discovers a man who declares "I am the enemy you killed, my friend." For 10 points, name this poem about an encounter between two dead soldiers, written by Wilfred Owen.
"Strange Meeting"
8

103787-)
The last line of this poem is taken verbatim from Thomas Wilkinson's travel book Tours to the British Mountains. Thespeaker of this poem imagines a "Cuckoo-bird / Breaking the silence of the seas / Among the farthest Hebrides" and anightingale chaunting "welcome notes to weary bands / Of travellers in some shady haunt, Among Arabian sands." Either"old, unhappy, far-off things, And battles long ago" or "Some natural (*) sorrow, loss, or pain / That has been, and may beagain" are conveyed by the title figure of this poem, who causes "the Vale profound" to overflow "with the sound." Its speakerstates that after he left, "The music in my heart I bore, Long after it was heard no more." For 10 points, name this Wordsworthpoem praising a Highland maiden who sings alone while working in the fields.
The Solitary Reaper"
9

103803-)
Martin Stevens argued that one author of these works used a thirteen-line stanza rather than a unique nine-line stanza with a CDDDC end rhyme. Keith Ramsay translated a group of these works based on the ones named for "N-town." In one of these works, Mak steals a sheep and takes it to his wife Gill, who passes it off as her baby. The "Towneley cycle" of these works is partially attributed to the Wakefield Master, who is thought to have written The Second Shepherd's Play. They frequently emphasized the villainy of Herod, and were usually presented by specific guilds in succession on Corpus Christi. Cycles of these plays typically began with the Creation and ended with the Last Judgement. For 10 points, name these medieval English plays which represent Bible stories.
mystery plays
8

103825-)
The last section of this work discusses a novel by "Mr. A," which is dominated by the shadow of the letter I. This work's fifth section dissects the novel Life's Adventure, and praises its sentence "Chloe liked Olivia." In its opening section, the narrator attends a luncheon and contrasts a tail-less Manx cat with the "humming" of Victorian poetry. It praises Keats and Proust as authors who exemplify Coleridge's idea of the "androgynous mind," and constructs a portrait of Professor von X from the anger the narrator feels when reading one of his books in the British Museum. This work's narrator identifies with the characters from the ballad "The Four Marys," such as Mary Seton and Mary Carmichael, and imagines a sister of Shakespeare who kills herself after being denied the freedom to write. Arguing that women need five hundred pounds a year and the title location in order to write fiction, for 10 points, name this essay by Virginia Woolf.
A Room of One's Own
8

103872-)
The second part of this novel opens near a monastery in the St. Bernard Pass as a family crossesthe Swiss Alps into Italy. In this novel, the Plornish family lives in Bleeding Heart Yard, which is runby the hypocritical landlord Christopher Casby. The title character has a sister named Fanny whoworks as a ballet dancer before marrying Edmund Sparkler. Many of its characters lose money inthe failed business scheme of Mr. Merdle. The villain of this novel is Blandois, who escapes from aFrench prison to blackmail Mrs. Clenam. Divided into books called (*) "Poverty" and Riches," itsprotagonist has a father who falls afoul of the bureaucratic Circumlocution Office. For 10 points, name thisCharles Dickens novel about a girl who lives in Marshalsea debtor's prison with her father.
Little Dorrit
8

103875-)
One of this man's poems claims that "a dream has power to poison sleep" and concludes "man'syesterday may ne'er be like his morrow." He discussed "dreams of a remoter world" that "visit thesoul in sleep" in a poem which opens by describing "the everlasting universe of things." A popularlegend holds that this man's friend Edward Trelawny took his (*) unburned heart from his funeral pyre.With Thomas Hogg, he was expelled from Oxford for refusing to repudiate his tract The Necessity ofAtheism. This man wrote one poem about "the awful shadow of some unseen Power" and another about"two vast and trunkless legs of stone" that stand in the desert. For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of"Mutability," "Mont Blanc," "Hymn to Intellectual Beauty," and "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
8

103895-)
This man wrote about a spirit that "doth inherit the vasty hall of death" in a poem that begins"strew on her roses, roses, and never a spray of yew." This author of "Requiescat" asked "is evenlove too weak to unlock the heart, and let it speak" in "The Buried Life." This poet called the titlefigure "self-school'd, self-scann'd, self-honour'd, self-secure" in his sonnet "Shakespeare." One ofhis poems praises "that sweet city with her dreaming spires," claiming "she needs not June forbeauty's heightening." In addition to that poem written on the (*) death of his friend Arthur HughClough, this man wrote a poem which discusses the "turbid ebb and flow of human misery" and notes that"Sophocles long ago heard it on the Agaean." For 10 points, name this author of "Thrysis" who wroteabout a place where "ignorant armies clash by night" in "Dover Beach."
Matthew Arnold
8

103901-)
In Charles Chesnutt's novel The House Behind the Cedars, Rena Walden first meets George Tryon at an event recreating a key scene in this novel. In that scene, this novel's protagonist disguises himself as the Disinherited Knight, and crowns his lover the Queen of Love and Beauty. In a later scene in this novel, Ulrica burns down Torquilstone, killing Reginald Front-de-Boeuf, although not before Isaac's daughter Rebecca is kidnapped by the title character's rival Brian Bois-Gilbert. This novel's title character marries Cedric's daughter Rowena, and serves the exiled English king Richard. For 10 points, name this novel about a 12th century Saxon knight written by Walter Scott.
Ivanhoe
7

103928-)
One character in this section of a larger work explains his devotion to virtue with the metaphor "if gold rust, what shall iron do?" and the metaphor of a shitty shepherd in charge of a clean sheep. A character satirized by this section wears a brooch saying "Amor vincit Omnia" and is described as weeping at the death of animals. A third character in this poetic section wears scarlet red hose, and is described as knowing "the old dance" of the art of love, having married five "husbands at [the] church door." This poetic section begins with the lines "Whan that Aprill with his shoures soote / The droghte of March hath perced to the roote." It is followed by a tale about a duel between Arcite and Palamon over Emily, which is told by the Knight. For 10 points, name this poetic section which introduces the characters of Geoffrey Chaucer's Canterbury Tales.
the General Prologue to the Canterbury Tales [prompt on Canterbury Tales before mentioned]
7

103955-)
In other of these works, the author exclaims "Admire me I am a violet! Dote upon me I am a primrose!" then asks "why should we kick against the Pricks, when we can walk on Roses?", in order to make the point that "poetry should be unobtrusive." Another of these pieces says that Benjamin West's painting "Death on a Pale Horse" is not intense enough to be good art, and describes a "Chamber of Maiden-Thought" which becomes gradually darkened by misery, leading to the opening of new doors. Another one claims that Shakespeare had the quality of "being in uncertainties, mysteries, [and] doubts without any irritable reaching after fact and reason." In addition to discussing the "vale of soul-making" and the "mansion of many apartments," one of these pieces introduces the idea of "negative capability." FTP, name these prose writings by a certain Romantic poet.
letters of John Keats [accept synonyms like "correspondence of Keats"]
9

103987-)
Two characters in this novel indicate their interest in each other by dining on steak and onions at Rules. Near the end of this novel, an ugly strawberry mark miraculously disappears from the face of Richard Smythe. Inspired by its author's relationship with Lady Catherine Walston, this novel is narrated by a man who hires the inept detective Mr. Parkis to steal a diary, and later arranges the cremation of his former lover out of spite. The climactic moment of this novel occurs when a woman promises to leave her lover if God returns him to life during an air raid. Set in London during World War Two, it focuses on the relationship between a novelist and the wife of the English statesman Henry. For 10 points, name this 1951 novel about Maurice Bendix's illicit romance with Sarah Miles, written by Graham Greene.
The End of the Affair
8

104035-)
This character compares bodies to gardens tended by the will in order to convince another character that love is "a lust of the blood and a permission of the will." In the third act of the play he appears in, this character calls "good name in man or woman" the "immediate jewels of their souls," declaring "who steals my purse steals trash." In a soliloquy, this character tells the audience "I will wear my heart upon my sleeve / For daws to peck at. I am not what I am." He proclaims "Hell and night / Must bring this monstrous birth to the world's light" after determining to "make the net / That shall enmesh them all." He kills Roderigo before being exposed by his wife Emilia, and tells the title character of the play he appears in to "beware" the "green-eyed monster." For 10 points, name this Venetian soldier who plots to destroy Othello.
Iago
8

104051-)
Characters in this novel include the soldiers Dodor and Zouzou, who repeats the phrase "I willnot!" so that people will think he is English. Its title character is crushed by the death of her littlebrother Jeannot. The title character of this novel becomes a laundress after a nude modelingexperience causes Little Billee to leave town. The stage adaptation of this novel popularized anamesake type of (*) fedora. This novel concludes at a cafÃ© in Paris, where the art student Taffy tells hiswife and the violinist Gecko that the title character had fallen apart during her last concert because herconductor had a heart attack and a trance was broken. For 10 points, name this novel in which Svengalihypnotizes the title talentless woman to make her a famous singer, a work of George du Maurier.
Trilby
8

104066-)
One character in this novel calms the survivors of an accident by reciting majestically from the evening psalter from Day27 of the Anglican Order. This novel is primarily set in a house whose windows have been shattered three times by bombs,one of which reportedly lay unexploded in its garden. One character in this novel leads classmates in elocution lessons byreciting stanzas from "The Wreck of the Deutschland." Another, nicknamed Fat Jane, is the only one who cannot fit intothe Schiaparelli dress shared by all of this novel's title characters as a good luck charm. At the beginning of this novel, wehear about the death in Haiti of an anarchist turned Jesuit priest named Nicholas Farringdon, who was involved withSelina, one of the title under-thirty residents of the (*) May of Teck club. For 10 points, name this novel about the inhabitantsof an all-girl dormitory, written by Muriel Spark.
The Girls of Slender Means
9

104078-)
One primary source for an event that occurred in this place is a letter that encourages those left to "stand manfully, fightbravely, defend the camp of god" addressed to this place's bishop, Higbald. In the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, an event on thisplace is given as occurring on the "sixth day before the Ides of January," though some modern scholars believe that"January" was mistakenly written instead of "June." Alcuin of York discussed an event at this place in a letter to Ethelredthat claims "never before has such terror appeared in Britain." An attack on this place scattered (*) monks, destroyed thecover of a namesake illuminated gospel book, and forced the relocation of the bones of Saint Cuthbert. For 10 points, name thisisland off the coast of Northumbria, home to a monastery that, in 793 CE, was pillaged in the first major Viking raid in Britain.
Lindisfarne
9

104114-)
This work is parodied in a Monty Python's Flying Circus episode in which its author clarifies that it's not about crabs anddescribes "the biggest ant you'll ever seen." Tim Duncan's entry in the Free Darko Macrophenomenal Pro BasketballAlmanac references this poem, which inspired the name of a comic book character with an "Antarctic retreat" whoconsumed a ball of hashish and embarked on a vision quest that led to his becoming a superhero known as the (*)"smartest man on earth." That character, named for this poem, deliberately exposes some of his employees to radiation in order toforce Dr. Manhattan to leave Earth. For 10 points, Adrian Veidt took his name from what poem that instructs readers to "lookupon my works, ye mighty, and despair"?
"Ozymandias"
9

104122-)
One character in this novel mistakes an American visitor for a "heathen Chinee" and sings the refrain "Cheer up, Sam; /Don't let your spirits go down. / There's many a girl that I know well, / Is waiting for you in the town." In this novel, theEmperor of China feels out of place at a magnificent dinner. One character in this novel, a regular at the Bear-Garden,insists that a policeman restrained him as he was beaten by John Crumb, who becomes engaged to Ruby Ruggles. Theprimary villain of this novel kills himself by drinking prussic acid long after scheming with Hamilton Fisker on a nonexistent(*) railroad between Utah and Mexico. Paul Montague finally gets with Hetta in this novel, which opens with LadyCarbury making matches for her children. The financier Augustus Melmotte represents corruption in this Victorian social satire.For 10 points, name this stand-alone masterpiece by Anthony Trollope.
The Way We Live Now
9

104152-)
The delicate singer Clara Hibbert appears alongside the jilted Bunty Mainwaring in a play by this author, which centers on Florence Lancaster's affair with the younger Tom Veryan and her eventual confrontation with her cocaine-addled son Nicky. Another of his plays includes the line, "I'd rather marry a boa constrictor." Besides The Vortex and a play about Elyot and Amanda ditching their honeymoons and getting back together with each other, he wrote of woman on a bicycle who interrupts a dinner with the Bradmans, the medium Madame Arcati. Ruth's jealousy is manifested by the return of Charles Condomine's first wife, Elvira, as a ghost in a play by this writer, named after a line from Shelley's "To a Skylark." For ten points, name this gay author of Private Lives and Blithe Spirit.
Noel Coward
7

104174-)
One of these poems compares its subject to "a violet by a mossy stone / Half-hidden from the eye! / Fair as a star, when only one / Is shining in the sky." In another of these poems, the speaker watches the "sinking moon" while riding on horseback to his lover, and becomes terrified when the moon drops out of sight behind her cottage roof. The shortest of these poems laments that its subject is "Roll'd round in earth's diurnal course / With rocks, and stones, and trees," and begins "A slumber did my spirit seal." These five poems include "Strange fits of passion have I known" and "She dwelt among the untrodden ways," and mourn the death of the title woman. For 10 points, name this group of poems by William Wordsworth.
Lucy poems
7

104191-)
In the third act of this play, one character is gagged with gingerbread after being blindfolded and giving away all his money to a character disguised as a prince of the Queen of Fairy. In its third act, one of its main characters disguises himself as the Spanish count Diego to attempt to marry Kastril's sister Dame Pliant. Set in the house of Lovewit, this play's characters include Pertinax Surly, who tries to expose its main characters to his friend Sir Epicure Mammon, and Abel Drugger, a tobacconist who wants the title character to help his shop using magic. Most of the characters in this comedy are deceived by the team of Dol Common and Face. For 10 points, name this comedy by Ben Jonson about Subtle, who claims to be able to transmute metal into gold.
The Alchemist
7

104208-)
This author created the honest locksmith Gabriel Varden and a man who is killed in a duel, John Chester. In one novel by this author, a misplaced five-pound note is found in one character's hat, necessitating the aid of a mysterious "Single Gentleman" in order to escape his sentence of transportation. The malevolent dwarf Quilp and rakish attorney Sampson Brass fail to help Kit Nubbles reach Little Nell before she dies in that book. In an unfinished novel by him, Jack Jasper and Neville Landless are suspected of murder. For 10 points, name this atuhor of The Old Curiosity Shop, Barnaby Rudge, and The Mystery of Edwin Drood, plus David Copperfield. 
Charles Dickens
7

104216-)
One character in this work is shown "how awful goodness is" after being caught "squat like a toad" near a woman's "organs of fancy." That character had earlier opened a palace built by Mulciber called Pandemonium and held a council including Belial and Mammon after floating on a burning lake for nine days. This poem's original ten books were revised to twelve, and an introductory note to its second edition states that it is written in "English heroic verse without rhyme." For 10 points, name this epic poem which begins: "Of Man's first disobedience, and the fruit of/ that forbidden tree, whose mortal taste/ brought death into the world," written by John Milton.  
Paradise Lost
7

104234-)
In the conclusion of this play, one character asks, "can I leave the virtuous path those eyes illuminate?" That character is earlier alleged to have injured someone else in a pistol duel by Crabtree. In this play, Moses arranges a meeting between Oliver and the moneylender Mr. Premium. Sir Peter concludes an argument with his wife by stating that they should separate after she asks for two hundred pounds. Snake is told to forge untruthful letters by the main character, but he is bribed into doublecrossing her at the end of this play. The main character of this play plots to separate Peter Teazle's ward Maria from Charles Surface so that she can have him for herself. For 10 points, name this Richard Sheridan play focusing on the malicious gossip spread by Lady Sneerwell.
The School for Scandal
7

104254-)
Ebenezer Cooke's poem "The Sot-Weed Factor" is written in imitation of this poem's style. William Hogarth's illustrations of this poem include a print depicting "the burning of the rumps" and a print showing its main character vanquished by Trulla. This poem's main character visits the astrologer Sidrophel, and promises to flagellate himself if a widow frees him from the stocks. The source of the line "spare the rod and spoil the child," this poem begins with its main character breaking up a group of bear-baiters. Set in a time "When civil dudgeon first grew high / And men fell out they knew not why," it is divided into three cantos written in a namesake style of witty iambic tetrameter couplets. It satirizes the Roundheads, and follows the title character as he goes "a kernelling" with his squire Ralpho. For 10 points, name this mock epic about a Presbyterian knight written by Samuel Butler.
Hudibras
8

104269-)
In one story, this character finds the black pearl of the Borgias inside a plaster bust of Napoleon.This character narrates a story in which he kills a lion's mane jellyfish with a rock. He writes thetract Practical Handbook of Bee Culture, and retires to beekeeping after thwarting the German spyVon Bork. This character is briefly engaged to the housekeeper of Charles Augustus Milverton, andis nearly killed when boulders are set loose by Sebastian Moran. This character sends the captain ofThe Lone Star an envelope which contains (*) five orange pips. In one short story, he is approached by aman who is being paid to copy pages from an encyclopedia. He has a brother named Mycroft, and fakes hisdeath by pretending to fall over the Reichenbach Falls during a fight with his rival Moriarty. For 10 points,name this character who appears with Dr. John Watson in A Study in Scarlet and The Hound of theBaskervilles.
Sherlock Holmes [accept either]
8

104292-)
In this novel, Miss Gaunt gets another character fired as choir master at her brother's church.One of its characters writes the popular philosophical text The Transformation of the Commonplaceafter becoming a nun and changing her name to Sister Helena of the Transfiguration. The titlecharacter of this novel tries to convince Rose Stanley to have an affair with her art teacher TeddyLloyd. Miss Mackay hates this novel's protagonist, who talks a lot about how her lover HughCarruthers died during World War I. After the protagonist of this novel convinces Joyce EmilyHammond to travel to (*) Spain and fight for Franco, she is betrayed by Sandy and fired from the MarciaBlaine School for Girls. For 10 points, name this novel about a teacher at a Scotland girl's school, themasterpiece of Muriel Spark.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie
8

104307-)
A celebrated passage in this novel describes its protagonist as being as "free from evil in the moment of waking as a magnificent wild beast" before stating that "under a thoughtful frown appeared the man." This novel opens by relating a story of two treasure seekers whose ghosts haunt a ravine in the Azuera peninsula. Its protagonist rides to Cayta to rescue Barrios and defeat the Monterists on the urging of Dr. Monygham. Other characters in this novel include Martin Decoud, who commits suicide after hiding silver on the island of the Great Isabel, and Charles Gould, who runs the San Tome mine in Sulaco. Set in the South American republic of Costaguana, it focuses on the "incorruptible" Capitaz de Cargadores. For 10 points, name this 1904 Joseph Conrad novel about the title Italian.
Nostromo
8

104352-)
One of this author's poems declares "First was the World as one great Cymbal made / Where Jarring Windes to infant Nature played." The speaker of one of this author's poems remembers "inconstant Sylvio," who "quite regardless of my smart / Left me his fawn, but took his heart," and laments "The wanton troopers riding by / Have shot my fawn, and it will die." This author of "Music's Empire" and "The nymph complaining for the death of her fawn" wrote "Luxurious man, to bring his vice in use / Did after him the world seduce" in a poem about the sinfulness of gardens. The speaker of one of his poems seeks to "tear our pleasures with rough strife / Through the iron gates of life" and imagines "Time's winged chariot hurrying near." For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet of four poems about the Mower, as well as "To His Coy Mistress."
Andrew Marvell
8

104378-)
This poem's final stanza imagines "small gnats" mourning a "wailful choir" among the river sallows after evoking "barred clouds" which "touch the stubble-plains with rosy hue." Its second stanza personifies its subject as a "gleaner" watching "the latest oozings, hours by hours" by a "cider-press," and begins by asking "Who hath not seen the oft among thy shore?" Its first stanza describes how its subject conspires with the sun to "bend with apples the moss'd cottage-trees" and "fill all fruit with ripeness to the core." Its third and final stanza assures the title entity "thou hast thy music too" after wondering "Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?" One of its author's "1819 odes," for 10 points, name this poem by John Keats about a "season of mists and mellow fruitfulness." 
"To Autumn"
8

104427-)
This poem compares a running horse to bees defending their hive, after earlier comparing thepassage of time to bees returning to their hives laden with treasure. Published versions of this poemoriginally omitted a passage about "Three priests' hearts" and "Three lawyers' tongues." It takesplace on a night "when chapmen billies leave the street" as the title character's wife is "Nursing herwrath to keep it warm." The protagonist of this poem ignores the advice of his wife (*) Kate and has ahorse named Meg, who loses her tail while crossing the River Doon. That protagonist yells "Weel done,Cutty-sark!" after seeing witches partying in the abandoned Alloway Kirk on his way home from thetavern. For 10 points, name this Robert Burns poem about a drunk's nighttime ride.
"Tam O' Shanter"
8

104452-)
This author introduced one character who disparages Dr. Johnson in favour of the Pickwick Papers and who scandalously acknowledges his poverty "in the public street," the oblivious Captain Brown. In another work, a crumpled-up Samuel Bamford poem is found near the scene of a murder and the sailor Will Wilson discusses flying fish with the insect-collector Job Legh. The creator of the unfashionable spinsters Miss Pole and Miss Jenkyns, this author is better-known for a work whose protagonist loses her sister Maria and is insulted by Robert Southey. Jem Wilson is found innocent of shooting a factory-owner's son in a novel about a seamstress by this author of Cranford, who wrote a work of non-fiction detailing her subject's marriage to Arthur Nicholls but omitting a correspondence with Constantin Heger. For ten points, name this wife of a Unitarian minister, the author of Mary Barton and The Life of Charlotte Bronte.
 Elizabeth Cleghorn Gaskell
7

104483-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems looks down at the cobblestones of an empty hotel yard and thinks "Featureless morning, featureless night." Another of this author's poems describes a voice "singing of Kitty, or Katy, as if the name meant once, all love, all beauty" during a funeral procession. This author of "Waiting for breakfast, while she brushed her hair" and "Dublinesque" imagined "Bonds and gestures pushed to one side / Like an old combine harvester" in a poem whose speaker guesses that a girl is "Taking pills, or wearing a diaphragm" and declares "I know this is paradise." In addition to "High Windows," he wrote a poem advising "Get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this British poet who wrote "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in his poem "This be the Verse."
Philip Larkin
8

104507-)
In one of this author's short stories, the sisters Penny and Primrose encounter a monstrous worm after being evacuated from the World War II bombing of London. This author wrote a review criticizing the Harry Potter books for having "no place for the numinous," and included stories such as "The Thing in the Forest" in her Little Black Book of Stories. One of her novels concerns a family of Fabians, the Wellwoods, whose matriarch Olive is based on Edith Nesbit. Estranged for many years from her sister Margaret Drabble, her novels include The Children's Book and The Biographer's Tale. In another of her novels, the academics Roland Michell and Maud Bailey study the relationship between the fictional Victorian poets Randolph Henry Ash and Christobel LaMonte. For 10 points, name this contemporary English author of Possession.
Antonia Susan Byatt
8

104522-)
This story ends with the reader being reminded of the similar story of Hugh of Lincoln. Near the end of this story, a provost rounds up the guilty parties and has them drawn by wild horses and hanged, stating that "evil shall have that evil will deserve." The narrator of this story weeps at the sight of mice caught in a trap, wears a brooch with the motto "Amor vincit omnes," and is named Eglantine. The antagonists of this story are inspired by Satan to attack a character for singing Alma redemptoris twice a day. However, that character continues singing even after his death thanks to a grain placed on his tongue by the Virgin Mary. For 10 points, name this story about the murder of a young boy by a bunch of Jews, which is recited by a prim nun in The Canterbury Tales.
"The Prioress' Tale"
8

104541-)
One character in this play observes "tell but some woman a secret over night / your doctor may find it in the urinal i'th' morning" and claims "that woman is all male whom none can enter." In the final act of this play, its protagonist asks thunder "Dost know thy cue, thy big-voiced crier" while stabbing a rival. One character in this play is accidentally killed by his brothers Ambitioso and Supervacuo when they deliver a signet ring. Its protagonist bedecks the skull of his dead fiancÃ©e for a tryst with the Duke, and takes the guise of the pander Piato to secure his sister Castiza for the Duke's son Lussurioso, whom he kills with the aid of his brother Hippolito. Now thought to be written by Thomas Middleton, for 10 points, name this Jacobean tragedy about the vengeance of Vindice, which for many years was attributed to Cyril Tourneur.
The Revenger's Tragedy
8

104613-)
This poem was a reworked version of its author's earlier "I stood tiptoe upon a hill." Itsprotagonist sees his lover's face in a well and hears her voice emerging from a cave. The titlecharacter of this poem overhears the river Alpheus complaining to the chaste nymph Arethusa aftera butterfly leads him to Adonis. The protagonist fulfills the prophecy of a scroll by descending to thebottom of the ocean, where he helps Glaucus revive the drowned lovers and goes to the Hall ofNeptune. In the first of this poem's four books, the title character's sister (*) Peona asks him why he isso depressed at a festival of Pan. It begins "a thing of beauty is a joy forever." For 10 points, name thislong John Keats poem in which the title shepherd is loved by the moon goddess Cynthia.
Endymion
8

104634-)
The poet Aretine helps the protagonist of this novel escape counterfeiting charges, which heincurs after almost being killed by the Venetian courtesan Tabitha. Other events in this novel includethe execution of Cutwolfe, which the protagonist witnesses after escaping vivisection. While in jail,the protagonist becomes lovers with the goldsmith's wife Diamante, who is later raped by banditswhile living in the home of Heraclide de Imola. In this work, the (*) Earl of Surrey wins a tournamentafter travelling to Florence to win back his lover Geraldine. Its protagonist becomes a soldier of fortuneafter serving as a page in the army of Henry VIII. For 10 points, name this picaresque novel about thetravels of Jack Wilton, which was written by Thomas Nashe.
The Unfortunate Traveler
8

104646-)
The only mention of daylight in this poem occurs when the speaker begs a goddess to shield him from the sun, imploring "Hide me from Day's garish eye." Near the end of this poem, the speaker wishes to inhabit a "Hairy Gown and Mossy Cell" until "old experience do attain" to "something like prophetic strain." The final line of this poem, "And I with thee will choose to live," is often interpreted to indicate its author's preference for this poem's subject over the subject of its companion poem. This poem begins "Hence vain deluding joys, the brood of folly without father bred," and hails the Goddess Melancholy as superior to Mirth. For 10 points, name this companion poem of "L'Allegro," a poem about the pleasures of contemplation written by John Milton.
"Il Penseroso"
7

104683-)
This work describes how the "Pansy at my feet" repeats certain questions. Its tenth stanza opens by asking "ye Birds, sing, sing a joyous song!", and it ends by thanking "the human heart by which we live,/Thanks to its tenderness, its joys, and fears." It opens with words from its author's poem "My Heart Leaps Up," followed by describing a time "The earth, and every common sight,/To me did seem/Appareled in celestial light," and it goes on to describe how "the heavens laugh" with "ye blessed creatures" and the "Child among his new-born blisses." For 10 points, name this poem about "Recollections of Early Childhood," written by William Wordsworth. 
"Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood"
7

104705-)
One character in this novel tells a story about a lady who takes a liking to a young bear, tiger, or lion, which one day reverts to its wild nature and kills her";that story is recounted in Terry Eagleton's analysis of this book, subtitled "Writing, Sexuality, and Class." Kingsley Amis used its plot as the basis of his novel Take a Girl Like You. It inspired contemporary readers to visit the Upper Flask, a tavern where its protagonist takes refuge. This novel's main character inspires her friend Anna Howe to marry Hickman, and refuses to marry Roger Solmes. In its climax, its title character is tricked into a brothel run by Mrs. Sinclair, where she is drugged and raped by Robert Lovelace. For 10 points, name this long epistolary novel about "the history of a young lady," written by Samuel Richardson.
Clarissa, or, the History of a Young Lady
8

104720-)
Wordsworth's "Fidelity" drew from this man's poem about a mountain climber whose dogremained beside his corpse. This author of "Helvellyn" drew on the galloping rhythm of Coleridge's"Christabel" and a local legend of the goblin Gilpin Horner for a poem which includes the oft-quotedlines "Breathes there the man with soul so dead, Who never to himself hath said, 'This is my own, mynative land!' That poem concerns a land dispute between Lady Buccleuch and Lord Cranstoun.Frederick Douglass took his surname from this man's poem in which Ellen defuses a conflictbetween (*) James V and the Douglas clan. This author chronicled the Battle of Flodden Field in his epicMarmion. For 10 points, name this author of The Lay of the Last Minstrel and The Lady of the Lake whowas the most popular poet in Britain until he began writing his Waverly novels.
Sir Walter Scott
8

104741-)
One of this author's poems declares "Life, like a dome of many-coloured glass / Stains the white radiance of Eternity" and claims "Flowers, ruins, statues, music, words, are weak / The glory they transfuse with fitting truth to seek" in a series of stanzas beginning "Go thou to Rome." This author depicted a figure marked by the words, "'I AM GOD, AND KING, AND LAW!" in a poem imploring Englishmen not to resist soldiers massacring them, which ends "Ye are many Â– they are few." This author wrote a poem declaring "Naught may endure but Mutability," as well an elegy which repeatedly laments "Weep for" the title character Â– "he is dead!" This author of "The Mask of Anarchy" mourned the death of John Keats in his poem "Adonais." For 10 points, name this English poet of "To a Skylark" and "Ode to the West Wind."
Percy Bysshe Shelley [prompt on Shelley]
7

104785-)
This character claims that he had wanted to walk into a pile of snakes while being whipped as part of a sacrifice to Jesus and Pookong. When he is given a tour of Eton by headmistress Miss Keate, he is shocked to see school children laughing at footage of flagellant Christians. He refuses to leave his room during a party thrown in his honor, angering the Arch-Community-Songster of Canterbury. This character vaguely remembers his father's name as Tomakin, and breaks into a rage upon discovering PopÃ© sleeping with his mother. After leaving the Reservation in New Mexico, this character befriends the dissident Helmholtz Watson and is introduced to a horde of forbidden literature by the World Controller Mustapha Mond. For 10 points, name this "savage" character from Brave New World.
John the Savage
8

104815-)
One character in this play delivers the threat, "I will kill thee a hundred and fifty ways: thereforetremble and depart." A character in this play notes that one only needs to put "if" in front a statementto hide the truth, to illustrate his seven degrees of lying. A lioness attacks in Act IV of this play, shortlyafter the assault of a she-snake. Disguised characters in this play include the (*) shepherdess Alienaand the tutor Ganymede, who offers love advice to her crush. Charles wrestles Orlando, Duke Senior isexiled, and the clown Touchstone marries Audrey in this play. While discussing the seven ages of man inthis play, Jacques exclaims "all the world's a stage." For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play, mostlyset in the forest of Arden.
As You Like It
8

104820-)
 This man told the story of Isabel Thwaites in a long poem structured as a tour through an estatewhere he was once a tutor for Mary Fairfax. A person in another poem by him "could not cease In theinglorious arts of peace" and is called "A Caesar ere long to (*) Gaul. To Italy an Hannibal." The poemby him warns that man that "The same arts that did gain A power must it maintain." This author of"Upon Appleton House" also urged an addressee to "roll all our strength and all Our sweetness into oneball" and regretting the lack of "world enough, and time." For 10 points, name this author of "AnHoration Ode Upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland" and "To His Coy Mistress."
Andrew Marvell
8

104854-)
This author described an unfulfilling liaison between Cloris and Lysander in one poem. A play bythis author depicts a girl who fends off a rapist by showing him a diamond ring, thereby indicatingthat she is a "person of quality." That girl's sister, Hellena, is seduced by a man who notes, "There's nosinner like a young saint." In her best-known novel, this author created characters who are given theChristian names (*) Caesar and Clemene. At the end of that novel, the title character leads a slave revoltagainst deputy governor Byam in Surinam and mourns his decapitated lover Imoinda. For 10 points,identify this Restoration playwright and spy who wrote The Rover and Oroonoko.
Aphra Behn
8

104897-)
The third book of this poem describes a garden where eternal substances take external forms and grow before being cut down by Time. In addition to that passage about the Garden of Adonis, this poem includes a character who kills a monopolistic tollbooth operator named Polline while dispensing justice with his metal henchman Talus. In its sixth book, the Blatant Beast is defeated by Callidore. This poem's antagonists include Busirane, who kidnaps Scudamour's wife Amoret, and Duessa, who represents the Catholic Church. Written in stanzas of eight iambic pentameter lines followed by a single alexandrine, it describes the adventures of Britomart, Guyon, and the Redcrosse Knight. For 10 points, name this allegorical epic poem written by Edmund Spenser.
The Faerie Queene
8

104902-)
Stanley Fish disputes Robert Graves's assertion that the author of this poem misplaced its lines beginning "Oft listn'inghow the hounds and horn / Clearly rouse the slumbering morn." This poem invokes Ariel's promise to Prospero in Act IV ofThe Tempest with its command "Come, and trip it as ye go / On the light fantastick toe." Characters in this poem exchange"Quips and Cranks, and wanton Wiles, Nods, and Becks, and wreathed Smiles," and tell stories over delicious glasses of "SpicyNut-brown Ale." The speaker of this poem wishes to be "lap[ped] in soft Lydian aires" so that he can, like Orpheus, makePluto "set free / His half-regain'd Eurydice." The bulk of this 152-line poem is in octosyllabic couplets, following the introductoryten-line stanza in which the speaker banishes his previous muse to "the dark Cimmerian desert." It ends with the couplet"These delights, if thou canst give, Mirth with thee, I mean to live." For 10 points, name this sprightly poem Milton wrote asa companion to "Il Penseroso."
"L'Allegro"
8

104962-)
People attempting to adopt this profession are described as standing "as if they were stretchedoutside The Oval or Villa Park...as if it were all An August Bank Holiday lark" in a Philip Larkinpoem. In another poem about these people, one remarks on the "jolly old rain" before anotherwonders "when the Allemands would get busy". A poem about former members of this professionnotes that they "shall not sleep, though (*) poppies grow" above them. One of these people asks thereader to remember that "there's some corner of a foreign field that is for ever England" in a poem byRupert Brooke. For 10 points, name these people who participated in the events of Siegfried Sassoon's"Counter-Attack", many of whom were buried "In Flanders Fields."
soldiers in World War I [accept troops or people in the military or veterans other reasonable synonyms]
5

105011-)
This work notes that an unnamed professor's arguments are less convincing when written in an angry, superior tone, and its first section speculates on the amount of gold and silver that must have been poured into the ground to build Oxbridge. This work contrasts a trend towards autobiography with a desire for anonymity, and cites criticism of Cavendish and Winchelsea after positing a gifted child whose reading is interrupted by chores and who grows up to commit suicide. The newness of the genre and the need to hide a manuscript from visitors are given as explanations in this work for a certain group's preference of writing novels. Featuring the imaginary Judith Shakespeare and claiming that money and the title privilege are required for the writing of fiction, for 10 points, name this essay about the challenges female writers face, written by Virginia Woolf.
"A Room of One's Own"
7

105044-)
 In one poem by this author, the speaker "walked with one I loved two and thirty years ago" beforeconcluding that "the voice of the dead was a living voice to me." In addition to writing "In the Valleyof Cauteretz," this author also wrote some unsuccessful plays about Farmer Dobson and Mr. PhilipEdgar. This writer of The Promise of May and Harold: A Drama described a creature "ringed with theazure world" in "The (*) Eagle." He lamented, "The woods decay, the woods decay and fall" in anotherpoem, in which "after many a summer dies a swan." For 10 points, name poet of "Tithonus" whomemorialized a group that charged "into the valley of death" in "The Charge of the Light Brigade". 
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
8

105052-)
One character in this novel has a cigarette case made of skin from the policeman who tortured hisfather to death, wishes to marry Milly, and opines that Catholics are more torturable, just as they aremore criminal. That man is bested in a checkers game where the pieces are tiny bottles of scotch,allowing the protagonist to steal his gun and kill Carter in revenge for the death of a man whosuccessfully decoded messages using Lamb's Shakespeare, Dr. (*) Hasselbacher. The protagonist hadearlier avoided death at a trade meeting presided over by Dr. Braun, where a lack of carrots on his plateindicates poison. The protagonist earns money from the spy Hawthorne by sketching vacuum cleanerparts and claiming they are military installations in the mountains. For 10 points, name this novelfeaturing James Wormold, set in Batista's Cuba and written by Graham Greene.
Our Man in Havana
8

105079-)
The speaker of this poem believes he will have peace "for peace comes dropping slow / Dropping from the veils of the morning." Lawrence Ferlinghetti satirically repeats variations of this poem's first lines in "Junkman's Obbligato" as a refrain. The speaker claims that while he "stands on the roadway, or on the pavements grey" he hears "water lapping with low sounds by the shore" leading him to make the poem's final declaration, "I hear it in the deep heart's core." This poem mentions "noon a purple glow" and "nine bean-rows" which the speaker hopes to find when he builds a "small cabin . . . of clay and wattles" at the title location. For 10 points, name this poem in which the speaker asserts, "I will arise and go now" to the title place, written by W. B. Yeats.
"The Lake Isle of Innisfree"
7

105090-)
This author described the "singing light" by which the speaker labors "for the common wages / Of their most secret heart" in a poem relating how the titular practice is "exercised in the still night." In another work, this author wrote "I sang in my chains like the sea" and "time held me green and dying" after saying "I was young and easy under the apple boughs." This author included "In my Craft or Sullen Art" and "Fern Hill" in Deaths and Entrances. The village of Llareggub is the setting for his radio play Under Milkwood, and he also described "wise men," "good men," "wild men," and "grave men," in a villanelle proclaiming "rage, rage against the dying of the light." For 10 points, identify this Welsh poet who wrote "Do not go gentle into that good night."
Dylan Thomas
7

105106-)
An amusing character in this novel is the ponderous and fat Reverend Millward, who expounds his cockamamie theories about ale and dyspepsia at every opportunity. Its protagonist owns a dog named Sancho and jealously strikes the landlord Frederick Lawrence with a whip, knocking him off of his horse, before receiving his love interest's journal and learning that Lawrence is her brother. One particularly lecherous character dies from consuming wine while ill and ruins his marriage with debauchery, which includes sleeping with Lady Lowborough. This work, which is framed as a series of letters between the male protagonist and his brother-in law Jack Halford, concerns the title character's marriage to alcoholic Arthur Huntingdon. FTP, name this work in which Gilbert Markham meets and falls in love with Helen Graham, who is the title character of this Anne Bronte novel.
The Tenant of Wildfell Hall
9

105133-)
This character claims "I have a kind of alacrity in sinking." He is told "the world's mine oyster" after refusing to lend Pistol a penny. In one monologue, he rhetorically asks "can honor set a leg" or "take away the grief of a wound"? When he is given a military command, this character impresses wealthy merchants, who bribe him. He has a circle of friends which includes Bardolph, Peto, and Ned Poins. This character falsely claims he was robbed by a hundred men after himself robbing a group of rich pilgrims at Gad's Hill. He accuses Mistress Quickly of robbing him at the Boar's Head Inn, and in another play he attempts to woo Mistress Ford and Mistress Page. For 10 points, name this fat knight who appears in both Henry IV Part I and The Merry Wives of Windsor.
Sir John Falstaff 
7

105172-)
One poem in this collection asks why the bull and boar "so sillily / Dissemble weakness" given that they "might swallow and feed upon" men. That poem begins "Why are we by all creatures waited on?" Its author writes that "a holy thirsty dropsy melts me yet" in a poem from this collection on the death of his wife, "Since she whom I loved hath paid her last debt." Another poem in this collection concludes that "I, / Except you enthrall me, never shall be free, / Nor ever chaste, except you ravish me." That poem asks its addressee to "break, blow, burn, and make me new." Its best-known poem asserts that "one short sleep past, we wake eternally," and this collection also includes a poem beginning "Batter my heart, three-person'd God."  For 10 points, name this set of nineteen religious poems, including one that begins "Death be not proud," written by John Donne.
Holy Sonnets [or Divine Meditations]
7

105211-)
This character attempts to introduce Petrus Ramus and Duns Scotus to the entirely uninterestedAristotle. Elsewhere, he witnesses scientists who attempt to create gunpowder from ice and extractsunlight from cucumbers during a visit to the Grand Academy. He concludes his story by rejectinghis family for the company of horses, while he begins his tale as a physician onboard the Antelope. Inone episode, this character is sent on a campaign to defeat the exiled (*) Big-endians, while in another,he meets the beast-like Houyhnhnms. A bird helps him escape from the giants of Brobdingnag after heearlier helps defeat an armada sent by Blefuscu, thus defending Lilliput. For 10 points, name this manwhose "Travels" title a Jonathan Swift novel.
Lemuel Gulliver [accept either answer]
5

105226-)
T.S. Eliot criticized this author's blank verse for relying on the monotonous repetition of names.In one of this author's plays, a prisoner commits suicide by bashing his head on the bars of his cage,while in a different scene, the title character burns a Quran and almost immediately falls sick.Another of his plays involves the main character's plan to marry his daughter to Lodowick, whichgoes awry when the would-be thief (*) Bellamira captures the heart of the conniving Ithamore. Thepower-hungry husband of Zenocrate is the protagonist of one play by this author, who created a merchantwho poisons the rice supply of a convent. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan author of Tamburlaine whowrote about the evil Barabbas in The Jew of Malta.
Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe]
5

105246-)
Strangers visiting this character's former home often have questions about the "depth andpassion" of an "earnest glance," whose primary characteristic is a "spot of joy." This character'sspouse chooses "never to stoop" and lacks the skill in speech to tell her "Just this or that in youdisgusts me." This character is criticized for failing to appreciate the "gift of a (*)nine-hundred-years-old name," which pleases her only as much as a "bough of cherries some officious foolbroke in the orchard for her." This character now exists only behind a curtain as a portrait made by FraPandolf. This woman "liked whate'er she looked on, and her looks went everywhere." For 10 points, namethis woman who had a heart "too soon made glad" in a poem by Robert Browning.
the duchess of Ferrara [accept "My Last Duchess"]
5

105258-)
This story's narrative is punctuated with descriptions of a week-long visit to the Valley of the Rhoneas well as a journey through Gemmi Pass. It includes descriptions of its protagonist nearly beingmurdered by a dropped brick, a man with a poker, and a taxi driver that spun out of control. A majorplot element is the protagonist (*) disguising himself as an Italian priest while on a train. Its author wasforced to follow it up with a story about the villain's subordinate Sebastian Moran in "The Adventure ofthe Empty House." The antagonist of this story is described as spending his early years writing a treatiseon the Binomial Theorem, and it concludes with two characters falling off Reichenbach Falls. For 10points, name this Arthur Conan Doyle story that ends with the death of Sherlock Holmes and his archnemesisMoriarty.
"The Final Problem"
8

105316-)
This author presented Biblically-derived support for polygamy in his De Doctrina Christiana,while his Tetrachordon and Colasterion both defend an idea he first promulgated in Doctrine andDiscipline of Divorce. The controversy sparked by those works led him to write a pamphlet analyzingthe "usefulness" and "harmfulness" of the Licensing Order of 1643. In one of his poems, (*) Mulciberbuilds a house for a character who disguises himself as a cherub to trick Uriel and proclaims that it is"better to reign in hell than serve in heaven". That poem attempts to "justify the ways of God to man" anddepicts Adam and Eve's expulsion from the Garden of Eden. For 10 points, name this author ofAreopagitica and Paradise Lost.
John Milton
5

105327-)
The poems in this collection were arranged chronologically by L.C. Martin, who named the earliestpoem in this book as one which promises "To taste boil'd nettles, colworts, beets; and eat these and sourherbs as dainty meat." A later poem about produce in this collection begins "Cherrie-Ripe, Ripe, Ripe, Icry, Full and faire ones; come and buy." This collection contains a poem ordering the subject to "mark howeach field turns a street, each street a park, made green and trimm'd with trees" and another in which "awild civility" is found in "a careless shoe-string." Another poem from this book warns that "for having lostbut once your prime, you may for ever tarry" after advising that "this same flower that smiles today,tomorrow will be dying." For 10 points, name this collection containing "Corinna's Going A-Maying,""Delight in Disorder," and "To the Virgins, To Make Much of Time," written by Robert Herrick.
Hesperides: Or, The Works Both Humane and Divine of Robert Herrick, Esq.
9

105331-)
One of this author's novels follows a man who plays Harvest Moon all the time and is antagonized bySkinner, who is reading Alan de Fretais's tell-all The Bedroom Secrets of the Master Chefs. Another of thisauthor's protagonists follows Lexi in the Capital City Service, a gang of soccer hooligans that supportsHibernian F.C., and fantasizes during a lengthy coma about joining Sandy Jamieson on a safari in SouthAfrica. This writer of Marabou Stork Nightmares wrote Porno as a sequel to his most successful novel andused a tapeworm inside corrupt policeman Bruce Robertson as the narrator of Filth. In the most notablenovel by this man, one character has a constant internal dialogue with Sean Connery, Second PrizeMcLaughlin ruins his soccer career with alcoholism, Sick Boy Williamson neglects his daughter Dawn, andMark Renton narrates the experiences of a group of heroin addicts. For 10 points, name this Scottish authorof Trainspotting.
Irvine Welsh
9

105397-)
 In one scene, this play's antagonists speak of their ancestors Mulmutius and Cassibelan. In the lastscene, a doctor reports the death of one character, who had prepared a "mortal mineral" that would"by inches waste" her husband. One character in this work claims that a beheaded corpse was named"Richard du Champ" and, while traveling in the countryside, takes on the name "Fidele." Thatcharacter accidentally takes a sleeping potion that was given by (*) Pisanio. In this play, the brothersArviragus and Guiderius, along with Belarius, help defeat the forces of Caius Lucius. At the end of thisplay, Iachimo is forgiven for deceiving Posthumus Leonatus, who was exiled to Italy and returned as partof the Roman army. He is eventually reunited with Imogen, the daughter of the title character. For 10points, name this Shakespeare play about the title "King of Britain."
Cymbeline
8

105414-)
A plot in this novel hinges on the discovery of a miniature portrait of Caroline. A character in thisnovel is wounded by a gunshot after rescuing a young girl from drowning in a stream. Later, thatcharacter makes a promise to flee to South America if his request is granted. The protagonist iswrongly accused of the murder upon returning from the Orkney Islands, but is soon acquitted. Theantagonist of this novel spends part of the story living near the (*) DeLacey family while becomingeducated. A nanny, Justine, is unjustly hanged for the murder of the protagonist's younger brother,William. The entire story is recounted to Captain Walton on a ship in the North Pole in, for 10 points,what novel by Mary Shelley?
Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
8

105449-)
At one point in this book, the narrator regains the ability to focus after seeing two people meet and get into a cab. This book approvingly cites the portrayal of friendship in Diana of the Crossways and creates a character who does not mind being called Seton, Beton, or Carmichael. This treatise examines the biases of Professor von X and the quality of food at the fictional (*) Fernham College.This book finds that 1470 and 1670 are the first two mentions of the group it investigates in George Trevelyan's History of England and predicts the suicide of the fictitious Judith Shakespeare. It concludes that the title place and five hundred pounds a year are what is required for a woman to write fiction. For10 points, name this analysis of women in literature by Virginia Woolf.
A Room of One's Own
8

105504-)
A lion and a bear attack in rapid succession in this book, setting up two rescues of maidens pursued bymen who had been shipwrecked at Lydia. A duel of poems about reason and passion ensues in this bookafter Pyrocles calms down the revolting inhabitants of a village. Near the end of this book, the foreign kingEvarchus arrives and is asked to judge the presumed murderers of a man who accidentally drank a sleepingpotion. One character in this book takes the name "Zelmane" while in disguise as an Amazon, in pursuit ofPhiloclea, who is briefly condemned to death along with Pamela and Gynecia. It begins when fourdisastrous prophecies for the coming year are given by the Oracle of Delphi to Basilius, the duke of the titleregion. For 10 points, identify this pastoral romance dedicated to the Countess of Pembroke by PhilipSidney.
The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia
9

105519-)
This poem's third stanza begins "When, like committed linnets, I/ With shriller throat shall sing, The sweetness, mercy, majesty, And glories of my King" which shows the author's pro-royalist attitude. That stanza also demonstrates the setting of the poem, as "committed linnets" refers to pet birds. The rest of this poem, which first appeared along with a verse about "going to the wars" in To Lucasta, makes such statements as "When I lie tangled in her hair.../ The birds wanton in the air/ Know no such liberty." For 10 points, name this poem by Richard Lovelace, whose fourth stanza begins "Stone wall do not a prison make,/ Nor iron bars a cage;." 
"To Althea, from Prison"
7

105532-)
George Bernard Shaw wrote that this character was "a besotted and disgusting old wretch", but of himself, he claims that he is "witty in not only myself, but the cause that wit is in other men". Harold Bloom calls him his author's most original character. At one point, he hangs out with Bardolph and is threatened with a lawsuit by Justice Shallow. The hostess of Boar's Head believes that he has gone to "Arthur's Bosom," while at another point he is called a "huge hill of flesh." He later tries to seduce Mistress Ford and Mistress Page. For 10 points, name this character from the two Henry IV plays who became the protagonist of The Merry Wives of Windsor.
Sir John Falstaff
7

105554-)
This author translated the August von Kotzebue play The Spaniard in Peru under the title Pizarro.In one of his own plays, Doctor Rosy helps a man masquerade as Humphry Hum in order to gainemploy with Justice Credulous. This author of St. Patrick's Day also wrote a comedy in which Mr. Puffis producing a play at the Dangles' household and Richard Cumberland is satirized as Sir (*) FretfulPlagiary. Lady Sneerwell attempts to bring everyone down to her level and a man disguises himself asthe moneylender Mr. Premium in another of his plays, which ends with Oliver Surface leaving hisfortune to his nephew Charles. He also created Lydia Languish, who is betrothed to Ensign Beverly aftermany misspeakings from Mrs. Malaprop. For 10 points, name this author of The Critic, The Rivals, andThe School for Scandal.
Richard Brinsley Sheridan
8

105572-)
The speaker of this poem compares himself to a roe, "bound[ing] o'er the mountains, by the sides / Of the deep rivers." Seeing smoke through the trees, this poem's speaker wonders if there is some Hermit in a lonely cave. This poem asks, "If this / Be but vain belief-oh" when he mentions the "serene and blessed joy" which allows him to "see into the life of things." Lamenting, "I cannot paint / What (*) then I was", the speaker claims that nature now is the "anchor of my purest thoughts,"and that his goal is to allow his "dear, dear Sister" to share his views. This poem begins, "Five years have past; five summers, with the length / Of five long winters", referring to the last time that he had visited the namesake building on the Wye River. For 10 points, name this poem addressed to Dorothy by William Wordsworth.
"Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey on Revisiting the banks of the River Wye During a Tour. July 13, 1798."
8

105577-)
This author recalled standing next to a man who says, "Yes, I think I shall express the accusativecase by a prefix", and next to another who created Newbosh, in his essay "A Secret Vice." This authorended one essay with the phrase, "it must ever call with a profound appealÂ—until the (*) dragoncomes." In that essay, this man argued that a certain work should be studied for its literary, not itshistorical merit. This author of"Beowulf: The Monsters and The Critics" and member of the Inklingsconvinced his good friend C.S. Lewis to convert to Christianity. Scholarship on this man focuses on thelanguages he created, such as Khuzdul, Numenorean, Sindarin, and Entish. For 10 points, name thisOxford scholar who reinvented the fantasy genre with The Lord of the Rings.
John Ronald Reuel Tolkien
8

105586-)
One character in this novel is compared to the walls of an unfinished hotel. Another character inthis work analogizes human thought to the alphabet and laments that he has only gotten to Q; thatcharacter walks around reciting "The Charge of the Light Brigade". Another character's daughterPrue dies during childbirth in its second section, "Time Passes". The opium addict Augustus (*)Carmichael appears in this novel. In its first section, "The Window", Charles Tansley insults the paintingskills of Lily Briscoe. In its final section, Macalister's son fishes and Cam and James come to admire theirfather while on a boat near the Isle of Skye. For 10 points, name this novel in which the Ramsay familytakes the title journey, written by Virginia Woolf.
To the Lighthouse
5

105620-)
This poet described "clear-ranged unnumbered heads, bowed with their aureoles" in a poemabout a person whose hair is "yellow like ripe corn." He also wrote a poem about a "poor shameful[prostitute], full of grace" who he identifies as "lazy laughing languid (*) Jenny." This man, whoexhumed a batch of manuscripts from his wife's grave, also wrote a poem whose first four stanzas areinscribed on the frame of his painting of its subject, a woman dead ten years who has been praying forher lover to join her in heaven. For 10 points, name this Pre-Raphaelite poet and painter, the author of"The Blessed Damozel" and brother of fellow poet Christina.
Dante Gabriel Rossetti
8

105712-)
At one point in this novel, a character retrieves the twenty-fifth edition of The Serpent At Home andpraises such chapters as "Satan in the Hair Brush" and "Satan Under the Tea Table." Another character inthis novel puts a paint-stained nightgown in a box which she then hides in quicksand before killing herself.Rosanna Spearman's suicide is covered up by Lucy Yolland in this book, which also features a characterwhose eye bulge gives him the nickname "Gooseberry." The central incident of this novel is caused bylaudanum administered by Dr. Candy, and is finally unraveled by Sergeant Cuff, who discovers thatevangelist Godfrey Ablewhite stole the title object, which originally was taken by John Herncastle fromSeringapatam. For 10 points, name this novel in which the sleepwalking Franklin Blake begins the chain ofevents that results in three Hindus reclaiming the sacred title gem, written by Wilkie Collins.
The Moonstone
9

105798-)
This author describes the title event of one poem as a "heart's clarion" and "world's wildfire" and states that "this... poor potsherd, patch, matchwoodÂ… is Immortal Diamond." This author wrote a poem whose various interpretations center on the word "Buckle" and describes how "blue-bleak embersÂ… Fall, gall themselves, and gash gold-vermillion." This author of "That Nature is a Heraclitean Fire and of the Comfort of the Resurrection" remembered "the Happy Memory of five Franciscan Nuns exiled by the Falk Laws," in a poem that plays on the name of a sunken ship to describe both the vessel and the country from which it departed.  For 10 points, name this English Jesuit poet of "The Wreck of the Deutschland," who used sprung rhythm in "The Windhover."
Gerard Manley Hopkins
7

105816-)
One poem by this author describes an island "long unknown and yet far kinder than our own" that produces figs, melons, and pomegranates. This poet laments the practice of men carving their beloveds' names into trees in a poem that states "no white nor red was ever seen / so am'rous as this lovely green." Still another poem by this author of "Bermudas" praises a man who "ruin[ed] the great work of time" and "cast the kingdom old / into another mould." The speaker of a fourth poem by this author of "The Garden" declares, "I would / Love you ten years before the Flood / And you should, if you please, refuse / Till the conversion of the Jews."  For 10 points, name this 17th-century British poet of "An Horatian Ode Upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland" and "To His Coy Mistress."
Andrew Marvell
7

105833-)
Grisolan stands guard while another character feigns madness to test obedience in this work. Thewife of a man whose name is a pun on "castrated" is killed with a poisoned bible because she hadbeen told the details of a murder in this play. Ferdinand, who is believed to be a werewolf in this play,regrets hiring someone to kill his sister after he sees her body. This play ends during a scene in whichFerdinand is killed by (*) Bolsano after Bolsano had stabbed and killed the Cardinal. Antonio, the secrethusband of the title character, leaves the fortune to his eldest son in, for 10 points, what play about anoblewoman, written by John Webster?
The Tragedy of The Dutchess of Malfi
8

105856-)
In a poem by this man, a group appears at first "like the leaves of the forest when Summer is green" but then "when Autumn hath blown." That poem by this man describes a rider lying "distorted and pale / With the dew on his brow, and the rust on his mail." This poet also described a woman with "a mind at peace with all below." This man wrote a poem in anapestic tetrameter to evoke the galloping of horses, in which attackers' spears are likened to "stars on the sea" but become useless after "the Angel of Death spread his wingsÂ…and breathed in the face of the foe." For 10 points, name this poet who wrote about an Assyrian king who "came down like the wolf on the fold" in "The Destruction of Sennacherib" and about a woman who moves "like the night" in "She Walks in Beauty."
Lord Byron [or George Gordon, Lord Byron]
7

105889-)
This novel's protagonist is surprised when, after deciding to forgo a secret marriage in London, she returns home to find her father remarried to the wealthy widow Mrs. Troyton. The two love interests of that protagonist are contrasted in styles of playing chess; one she's able to easily defeat, while she gets mad at the other after he refuses to let her beat him. In a climactic scene, the protagonist is forced to take off her underwear and use them to pull up another character, preventing him from falling off a cliff. Stephen Smith travels to India to make a fortune and win the respect of the protagonist, who ends up falling for Stephen's one-time mentor, Henry Knight.  FTP, name this Thomas Hardy novel about Elfride Swancourt, who has the two title features on her face. 
A Pair of Blue Eyes
9

105906-)
Near the end of this work, the semichorus compares the protagonist's "fiery virtue" to an "ev'ning Dragon" that "rang'd of tame villatic Fowl, but as an Eagle" and the "self-begott'n bird in the Arabian woods embost." At its opening, the title character proclaims "to live a life half dead [is] a living death," and that the sky is "irrevocably dark, total eclipse, without all hope of day!" This work is set on a Festival Day, during which the title character is imprisoned. After the Catastrophe, the chorus proclaims that "peace and consolation hath dismist, and calm of mind all passion spent." Much of the work is framed as a dialogue with the giant Harapha, whom the protagonist accuses of worshipping Dagon, citing "my trust in the living God who gave me at my Nativity his strength." This work is a retelling of an incident from the Book of Judges that follows the Aristotelian Unities. FTP, name this closet drama about a man "eyeless in Gaza," which was written by John Milton.
Samson Agonistes
9

105943-)
One poem by this author declares that while Luna "had never proved / How vain a thing is mortal love," the addressee has proven the truth: "Thou hast been, shalt be, art, alone." Another poem by this author declares that "with echoing straits between us thrown / Â… We mortal millions live alone." The speaker of a poem by this man describes his "foot less prompt to meet the morning dew / The heart less bounding at emotion new." This author of the Marguerite poems used the line "Are ye too changed, ye hills?" to open an elegy mourning Arthur Hugh Clough. He described "the long, withdrawing roar" of the "Sea of Faith" in a poem that claims that "Sophocles long ago" heard the same sound "on the Aegean." For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of "Thyrsis" and "Dover Beach."
Matthew Arnold
7

105952-)
This character recalls, "I fumbled to the window to experience the world" and states, "I have heard my Madness chatter before day," towards the end of a mostly excised passage called his "Pervigilium." This character describes "voices dying with a dying fall" and has a brief vision of "lonely men in shirt-sleeves, leaning out of windows" before describing a frightening vision of the "eternal Footman" holding his coat. This character compares himself to John the Baptist, Lazarus, and Prince Hamlet in succession after announcing, "I should have been a pair of ragged claws scuttling across the floors of silent seas." This character opens with the line, "Let us go then, you and I." For 10 points, name this aging title character of a dramatic monologue by T. S. Eliot called his "Love Song."
J. Alfred Prufrock [or J. Alfred Prufrock]
7

105971-)
Twice, this character mysteriously alludes to having "failed him, once at Constantinople." This character's sister Sylvia was killed, somewhat ironically, by a falling tree at their childhood home. The Cymbeline line "fear no more the heat o' the sun" is repeatedly quoted by this character, who is distracted from her mending of a green dress by the appearance of an old boyfriend. This character thinks that the most exquisite moment of her life was kissing Sally Seton at Bourton. In her youth, this character rejects Peter Walsh to marry the wealthier politician Richard. Before guests arrive at this woman's house, Septimus Smith kills himself.  For 10 points, name this character who throws a party in 1923 London in a novel by Virginia Woolf.
Mrs. Dalloway [or Clarissa Dalloway]
7

105980-)
The first chapter of this novel is epistolary and recounts a love affair that devolves into "telegrams and anger." This novel analogizes the lower classes as goblins pounding in the abyss while its protagonist and her sister listen to Beethoven's Fifth Symphony. A character in this novel exiles herself to Germany after a bad tip forces her impoverished friend to quit his clerking job. The protagonist of this novel refuses to break off an engagement to Henry after learning that he had an affair with Jacky and insists that he "connect" the incidents in his life. A man in this novel pushes over a bookcase with a sword, giving Leonard Bast a heart attack. In her dying hour, Ruth Wilcox signs over the deed to this novel's title estate to Margaret Schlegel. For 10 points, name this novel by E.M. Forster.
Howards End
7

105998-)
William Walton composed a namesake Te Deum for one of these events. Michael Tippett reworked oneof his contributions for this type of event into his Divertimento on Sellinger's Round. Both Purcell and alater composer set the psalm "My heart is inditing" for this type of event, and Thomas Attwood, WilliamBoyce and Hubert Parry all set "I was glad" for them. A. C. Benson wrote the text for an Elgar workpremiered at one of these events; that work's finale sets "Land of Hope and Glory" to the trio theme fromthe Pomp and Circumstance March no. 1. During its anointing phase, Handel's Zadok the Priest isnormally performed. For 10 points, identify this type of event in which a crown is usually placed on a newmonarch's head.
coronations of British monarchs [prompt on the crowning of a new British monarch; prompt on the new British monarch's entry to Westminster Abbey; prompt on the anointing of the new British monarch]
9

106003-)
 In a play by this author, a man receives a silver cane from the Combined Staffs, Excess and Refundsbranch of the Great Southern Railways but uses the cane to beat his wife to death. In that play by this man,a five-person chorus includes The Embezzler, The Boy from the Island, and The Man of Thirty. Thisauthor, who used the pseudonym "Emmet Street" to publish the serial novel The Scarperer, bookended thatplay with the prison dirge "The Old Triangle." This author of The Quare Fellow also wrote about Ken'sunsuccessful escape earning a sentence in the "chokey" and about befriending Charlie and Ginger followinga raid on his bomb-making house in Liverpool. For 10 points, name this besotted Irish nationalist author ofthe autobiographical Borstal Boy
Brendan Behan
9

106040-)
One of these items is covered in jewels and given as a gift alongside a golden banner and a wreathedstandard. One of these items is engraved with a depiction of the Genesis flood destroying the giants, and iscompared to melting icicles when it dissolves in blood. Another of these objects is said to have played akey part in the Cain and Abel story despite being absent from Genesis, and these items are described withthe kenning "light of battle." Another of these items is acquired after spotting the severed head of Aeschere,and a later one is snapped in half after being subject to too much force during the battle with the dragon.Unferth gives away one of these items, which fails in an underwater battle. For 10 points, Naegling andHrunting are two of what kind of weapon which often appears in Beowulf?
swords in Beowulf 
9

106059-)
The protagonist of this short story re-appears at several points in a later novel as a tea trader forPulbrook Robertson, finding the spot of Robert Emmet's execution and praising Ben Dollard's performanceof "The Croppy Boy." The title concept of this story is applied to "a silk hat of some decency and a pair ofgaiters" by the narrator. Mr. Cunningham asserts that the event held by Farther Purdon on Gardiner Streetat the end of this story will involve "washing the pot." This story begins when a man bites off part of histongue during a fall in a bar restroom and is discovered by Mr. Power. Originally appearing between "AMother" and "The Dead," this story follows the Catholic convert Tom Kernan, who also appears in threedifferent scenes of Ulysses. For 10 points, name this penultimate story from Dubliners, in which the Jesuitconcept of salvation is lauded by several Irish businessmen.
Grace 
9

106064-)
The protagonist of this work offers a five-shilling reward to a blind man with a pistol to guide him to Torosay and soon encounters Mr. Henderland in the chapter "The Lad with the Silver Button".Its narrator is almost killed when he is tricked into ascending a poorly-lit, unfinished staircase after leaving his home of Essendean. A cabin boy named Ransome is brutally beaten by Mr. Shuan in this novel, whose protagonist becomes a confidant of (*) Alan Breck Stewart, a Jacobite who is hunted by the Red Fox. Its narrator initially believes he's being cheated out of his father's inheritance by his uncle,Ebenezer, and soon gets shanghaied by Captain Hoseason of the Covenant. For 10 points, name this novel about David Balfour by Robert Louis Stevenson.
Kidnapped
5

106074-)
This author's novels N or M?, By the Pricking of My Thumbs, and The Secret Adversary star themarried couple Tommy and Tuppence Beresford. This author was inspired by the Lindberghkidnapping to write a novel about the murder of "little Daisy Armstrong". The controversial endingof one of this writer's novels features Dr. James Sheppard preparing to kill himself after beingimplicated as a blackmailer. In one of her books, a (*) Belgian uses his "little gray cells" to concludethat every passenger on a train coach murdered Mr. Ratchett. For 10 points, name this female author whosecharacter Hercule Poirot investigated crimes in The Murder of Roger Ackroyd and Murder on the OrientExpress.
Agatha Mary Clarissa Christie [or Agatha Miller; or Mary Westmacott]
5

106094-)
The speaker of a poem by this man bemoans the idea of "someone else drowned in that lash-wide stare" and blames his problems on "something to do with violence, / a long way back, and wrong rewards, / and arrogant eternity." The speaker of another poem by this man experiences a "sharp tender shock" upon seeing a stone earl's hand still clasping his wife's, as "such faithfulness in effigy / was just a detail friends would see." This author of "Love Again" and "An Arundel Tomb" described death as "nothing to think with / nothing to love or link with / the anesthetic from which none come round." For 10 points, name this 20th-century British poet of "Aubade," who acknowledged that "your mum and dad" "were fucked up in their turn" in "This Be the Verse."
Philip Larkin
7

106116-)
This poem's speaker questions the "joy we ever should come near" if "we were things born / Not to shed a tear" and  asks, "What objects are the fountains / Of thy happy strain?"  Images in this poem include a "rose embowered / In its own green leaves" and a "glow-worm golden / In a dell of dew." This poem's speaker states "The world should listen then Â– as I am listening now" after declaring  that if the title figure would teach him "half the gladness / That thy brain must know, / Such harmonious madness / From my lips would flow." This poem begins with its speaker exclaiming, "Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!" For 10 points, name this poem addressing a bird, by Percy Shelley.
"To a Skylark"
7

106144-)
In this poem, a "heart high-sorrowful and cloy'd, a burning forehead, and a parching tongue"result from the delirious call for "more happy love! More happy, happy love!" The speaker of thispoem wonders "what little town by river or sea-shore... is emptied of its folk, this pious morn?" Thequestions "what mad pursuit?" and "what struggle to escape?" are posed to the title (*) "sylvanhistorian" of this poem, which reasons that "heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are sweeter". Thetitle "still unravish'd bride of quietness" imparts by its mere presence a fact that "is all ye know on earth,and all ye need to know"; namely, that "beauty is truth, truth beauty". For 10 points, name this poeminspired by an ancient work of art, an ode by John Keats.
"Ode on a Grecian Urn"
5

106165-)
This character is locked in a room by a political dissident who wrote a book comparing people tofruit that grow on a tree planted by God. He is known as "6655321" for a period during which he isemployed playing music on the stereo at the Wing Chapel. He uses a weapon called a britva andrefers to himself as "Your Humble Narrator". Dr. Branom and Dr. Brodsky force this character towatch films of (*) murder and rape while classical music plays; that experience with the "Ludovicotechnique" ruins his love of Beethoven. He enjoys drinking at the Korova Milk Bar along with Dim,Georgie, and Pete. For 10 points, name this Nadsat-speaking leader of a gang of "droogs", the protagonistof Anthony Burgess' A Clockwork Orange.
Alex DeLarge [accept either underlined portion]
5

106168-)
The protagonist of one novel set in this country gets letters from her rebellious sister Hasina, isseduced by a clothes worker named Karim, and loathes trimming the corns of her arranged husbandChanu. Nazneen lives in the Tower Hamlets in this country in Brick Lane. Keiko becomes antisocialand commits suicide after moving to this country with her mother Etsuko in A (*) Pale View of Hills.In another novel set in this country, the protagonist ponders terms like "dignity" and "greatness" andreflects on a failed romantic relationship with Miss Kenton, a fellow servant of Lord Darlington. For 10points, name this country, the home of such immigrant writers as Monica Ali and Remains of the Dayauthor Kazuo Ishiguro.
England [or Great Britain; or United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland]
5

106216-)
In one of this man's plays, ongoing discussions of the quality of Roger Casey's writing areinterspersed in a reverse narrative showing the path taken by an affair between Emma and herhusband's friend Jerry, while another of this man's plays ends with Bert Sands beating a black mannamed Riley as his wife repeats "I can't see." This man is the author of a play in which two charactersargue over the true nature of the death of a (*) cat supposedly killed by an eight-year-old girl andreceive food orders from the title structure as well as debate the phrases "light the kettle" and "put thekettle on" before it is revealed that Gus is to be killed by his partner Ben. For 10 points, name this authorof Betrayal and The Dumb Waiter who wrote about Stanley in The Birthday Party.
Harold Pinter
8

106243-)
A character in this novel is revealed to have a secret engagement so that she can avoid being agoverness. In this book, a game in which people rearrange alphabet blocks leads to revelations aboutanother character's past. A character in this novel receives an anonymous gift of a pianoforte, andanother character is saved from beggar gypsies by (*) Frank Churchill. Churchill marries Jane Fairfax inthis novel, and at the beginning of it the title character tells Harriet to pursue a vicar instead of thefarmer Robert Martin. The title character marries George Knightly. For 10 points, name this novel whosetitle character is a daughter of Mr. Woodhouse and fancies herself a matchmaker, written by JaneAusten.
 Emma
8

106263-)
One of this author's poems states, "It lies not in our power to love or hate" and asks, "Who everloved, that loved not at first sight?" Neptune mistakes one title character of that poem for Ganymedeand almost drowns him. This author wrote another poem whose speaker pledges to make "A cap offlowers, and a kirtle / Embroidered all with leaves of myrtle." The former poem by this author begins,"On (*) Hellespont, guilty of true-love's blood" and describes loving youths from Abydos and Sestos.Another of this author's poems says, "we will all the pleasures prove" after imploring, "Come live withme and be my love." For 10 points, name this author of Hero and Leander and "The Passionate Shepherdto his Love" as well as the plays The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
Christopher Marlowe
8

106303-)
 This character goes by the name Mr. Campbell when he lives with Old Bill Barley at Mill PondBank. He fathers a child with a woman named Molly, who becomes a housekeeper after beingacquitted of the crime of strangling a woman to death. This basis for a Peter (*) Carey title charactergoes by the name Uncle Provis while waiting for Mr. Wemmick to give a signal. His attempt to escapethe country is halted when his rowboat is intercepted by his old partner-in-crime Mr. Compeyson. Afterbring sentenced to death, he dies in a prison infirmary when he is told that his daughter is alive and well.After a young child gives him some food and a file, this character is taken to Australia where he makes afortune in sheep. For 10 points, name this father of Estella and secret benefactor to Pip in GreatExpectations.
Abel Magwitch [or Abel]
8

106324-)
A stanza in this poem compares "horsemen's scimitars" to "sphereless stars / thirsting to eclipse their burning." One figure in this poem is "arrayed in mail/brighter than the viper's scale" and appears after a "maniac maid" named Hope lays in the street "right before the horses' feet." This poem's title personification has a mark on his brow stating "I AM GOD, AND KING, AND LAW!" and is a deathly pale figure riding a white horse. A refrain in this poem commands "Rise like Lions after slumber / In unvanquishable number" and notes that "Ye are many - they are few." In this poem, the personified Hypocrisy, Fraud, and Murder represent Sidmouth, Eldon, and Lord Castlereagh. For 10 points, name this allegorical response to shootings by police at Peterloo, a poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
"The Masque of Anarchy"
7

106335-)
This author contributed a volume on The Birds to the BFI Film Classics line of books about films. Shedubs Russell Brand an "epicene rouÃ©" in a 2012 column which criticizes "manic cyborg cheerleader" KatyPerry and Taylor Swift for being uninteresting feminist role models. She put together a poetry anthologywith her own commentary entitled Break, Blow, Burn. In her major work, this author claims that"Patriarchy, routinely blamed for everything, produced the birth control pill, which did more to freecontemporary women than feminism itself," and that Egypt was the only society which properly unitedmale reason with the female connection to the "chthonic." For 10 points, name this author who examined"Art and Decadence From Nefertiti to Emily Dickinson" in her treatise Sexual Personae.
Camille Paglia
9

106357-)
In this poem, a river is personified as a "reverend Sire" wearing a "Mantle hairy" and a "Bonnet sedge." The speaker of this poem mentions animals who are "swoll'n with wind," "rot inwardly," and spread "foul contagion." Part of this poem describes a character who carries "two massy Keyes...of metals twain," the Pilot of the Galilean lake. This poem opens with the speaker telling laurels and myrtles that "I come to pluck your Berries harsh and crude." Scholars of this poem argue over what its "two-handed engine at the door" actually is. Most of this poem is spoken by an "uncouth swain," who instructs "Look homeward Angel" and tells shepherds to "weep no more." This poem is dedicated to Edward King, who died in a shipwreck. For 10 points, name this pastoral elegy by John Milton.
"Lycidas"
7

106376-)
One character in this play introduces an ongoing joke when he states the adage, "In time the savage bull doth bear the yoke." At a wedding in this play, all of the women wear masks. At the beginning of Act IV, a ceremony presided over by Friar Francis is halted after a woman hears herself compared to a "rotten orange" for her infidelity and then faints. A constable in this play retorts "Forget not that I am an ass." In this play, a daughter of Leonato loves a soldier who recently returned to Messina with Don Pedro. Its minor characters include the drunken Borachio and Dogberry. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy, which ends with a double wedding for Hero and Claudio as well as Beatrice and Benedick. 
Much Ado About Nothing
7

106392-)
In this poem, a "tear more rare than pearl" and a "precious golden lock" of hair from one character's head are used as payment. Another character in this poem is described as "full of wise upbraidings" and later assaulted during this poem's climax. When this poem appeared in its author's first volume of poetry, the author's brother provided the illustrations.  In this poem, a character is reminded of the tragic tale of Jeanie, who "pined and pined away," "dwindled and grew grey, then fell with the first snow;" that character in this poem is warned to "not loiter so," lest she obey the refrain "Come buy, come buy." For 10 points, name this poem about the sisters Laura and Lizzie, who are tormented each evening by the calls of the title creatures, a work by Christina Rossetti.
"Goblin Market"
7

106426-)
According to a literary work, these objects "out-did the sparkling waves in glee," leading to theconclusion that "a poet could not but be gay in such a jocund company." In that poem's secondstanza, these items are said to be "continuous as the stars that shine and twinkle on the Milky Way,"after which it is observed that they "stretched in never-ending line along the margin of a bay". Thelast stanza of that poem describes how they (*) "flash upon that inward eye, which is the bliss ofsolitude." "Ten thousand" of these organisms are observed "fluttering and dancing in the breeze," accordingto a poem whose speaker "wandered lonely as a cloud." For 10 points, name these golden flowers, thesubject of a Wordsworth poem.
daffodils [prompt on "flowers" before that word is read]
5

106439-)
One poem by this author ends with the lines "Leaves, lines, and rhymes, seek her to please alone,whom if ye please, I care for other none". Another of his works contains a character who constantlytries to weigh things on his scales until he is thrown into the sea by a man made of metal. The formerpoem appears in a collection by this poet to which he appended a poem celebrating his marriage toElizabeth Boyle called (*) "Epithalamion". In his most famous work, Artegal is captured by the AmazonRadigund, then saved by Britomart, while Archimago and Duessa conspire against the virtuous Una and theRedcrosse Knight. For 10 points, name this author of the Amoretti who represented Queen Elizabeth asGloriana in The Faerie Queen.
Edmund Spenser
5

106442-)
This character is called "an Enemy in the shape of a Friend" in a letter which warns that "continual dropping will wear away a StoneÂ—ay, moreÂ—a Diamond." This man appears giving a sermon in Evershead on Galatians following the death of his mother. This character hid in a vault at Kingsbere to surprise a woman whom he had earlier forced to eat a strawberry out of his hand while at his estate at Trantridge Cross. His blood drips through the ceiling of Mrs. Brooks, the landlady of The Herons, after he is killed by the woman who bore him a son named Sorrow. That killer, the daughter of John and Joan Durbeyfield, runs away to Stonehenge with Angel Clare. For 10 points, name this character who rapes Tess after she claims to be his cousin in a Thomas Hardy novel.
Alec D'Urberville [or Alexander D'Urberville; prompt on "D'Urberville" or "Stoke" before mention]
7

106502-)
One member of this group inquired about "this goblin Honour, which the world adores" in hispoem "A Rapture." Another member of this group wrote "A Ballad Upon a Wedding" and a poemwhich opens with the question "Why so pale and wan, fond lover?" Sometimes called the "Sons ofBen," their numbers included a poet who expressed his appreciation for "wild civility" in "Delight inDisorder" and advised the (*) young to "Gather ye rosebuds while ye may" in another poem. Thesecounterparts of the metaphysical poets included as members Thomas Carew ("Carey"), cribbage inventorJohn Suckling, and the author of "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time," Robert Herrick. For 10 points,identify this group of poets named for their affiliation with Charles I.
the Cavalier poets [prompt on "Sons of Ben"]
5

106518-)
The oldest preserved poem in this language was apparently composed by an illiterate cowherdwho learned to compose verse in a dream. Another poem written in this language is narrated by adreamer who speaks to a piece of wood that praises the glory of God after it is used in the crucifixion.Caedmon's Hymn and The Dream of the Rood are written in this language. A different work writtenin this language details how the title figure's sword is (*) melted by the blood of a woman who isdefeated when the protagonist dives into a lake and slays her. In that work in this language, a descendant ofCain continuously attacks the mead hall Heorot, which was constructed by King Hrothgar. For 10 points,identify this language used to write Beowulf.
Old English [prompt on "English", do NOT accept "Middle English"]
5

106529-)
James Wood described this novel as "one large mental chamber" and claimed that in writing it,its author "novelizes the soliloquy". One character in this novel consults with the apothecary Mr.Perry in order to justify his opposition to the eating of cake. Anne Watson served as the childhoodgoverness of this novel's protagonist, who complains about the talkative Miss Bates and refuses the(*) proposal of the vicar Mr. Elton, who later marries Augusta Hawkins. Its title character lives in Hartfieldwith her father, is surprised by the engagement of Frank Churchill and Jane Fairfax, and continually tries toengineer relationships for Harriet Smith. For 10 points, the title would-be matchmaker eventually marriesGeorge Knightley in which novel by Jane Austen?
Emma
5

106549-)
In one poem, this man asked "Why has not man a microscopic eye?" and answered "For this plain reason, - man is not a fly". In another of his poems, a bag of "sighs, sobs, and passions" and a vial of "soft sorrows, melting griefs, and flowing tears" are poured on Thalestris and another woman. This author asked "Who breaks a butterfly upon the wheel?" in his "Epistle to (*) Dr. Arbuthnot". One of his poems describes how "Hope springs eternal from the human breast" and claims that"the proper study of Mankind is Man". The gnome Umbriel visits the Cave of Spleen in a mock-heroic poem by this author in which the Baron steals the title object from Belinda. For 10 points, name this English satirist who wrote An Essay on Man and "The Rape of the Lock".
Alexander Pope
5

106553-)
A cab driver in this novel suffers from an aortic aneurism, which forces him to leave his belovedLucy in Salt Lake City. A steadily decreasing number is painted somewhere on the farm of JohnFerrier in this novel's second section, "The Country of the Saints". In this novel, both JosephStangerson and Enoch Drebber are found dead underneath the word (*) "RACHE" written in blood.Stamford introduces this novel's narrator, a doctor returning from Afghanistan, to his future roommate.That crime is found to have been committed by Jefferson Hope by his novel's protagonist, who nextappeared in the novel The Sign of Four with his companion John Watson. For 10 points, name this 1887novel in which Arthur Conan Doyle introduced Sherlock Holmes.
A Study in Scarlet
5

106573-)
This play is often double-billed, and shares several stage elements, with its author's radio dramaA Slight Ache. Although one character in this play attempts to flush a toilet three times, it does notactually flush until he notes that he's run out of matches. Notes read aloud in this play include "Soupof the day. Liver and onions. Jam tart." and "Macaroni Pastitsio. Ormitha Macarounada." Twocharacters in this play argue over the meaning of the phrase (*) "light the kettle," which is later impliedto have been said by an offstage character through a speaking tube. For 10 points, name this play in whichthe hitmen Ben and Gus hang out in a basement while orders are delivered via the title conveyance, a workof Harold Pinter.
The Dumb Waiter
5

106598-)
In a scene from one version of this work, a group of courtiers are forced to chase after a bargewhile its owner cackles madly. Its author employed a version of Brecht's alienation by having onecharacter address the audience in different roles, including a Steward at the beginning of the playand a Headsman at the end. Its protagonist's daughter Meg attempts to marry William Roper, whoattempts to persuade her father to arrest Richard Rich. The (*) Common Man narrates this play, whoseprotagonist reveals Signor Chapuys's plot to Norfolk, is prosecuted by Thomas Cromwell, and refuses totake the Oath of Supremacy, angering Henry VIII. For 10 points, name this play by Robert Bolt that endswith the death of its title character, Sir Thomas More.
A Man For All Seasons
5

106607-)
This author seeks the city of Selene in order to kill Otto Goetzi in Paul FÃ©val's novel La VilleVampire. Nicola di Zampari disguises himself as a monk to deliver mysterious warnings, whileanother character is revealed to be Sister Olivia's daughter, in a novel by this author which seesVincentio de Vivaldi's plans to marry Ellena Rosalba frustrated by the conspiracies of FatherSchedoni. This author also created a character who is pursued by Morano and loved by Valancourt.The bandit leader Montoni imprisons Emily (*) St. Aubert in the title castle of her most famous novel,which is parodied in Jane Austen's Northanger Abbey. For 10 points, name this author of The Italian andThe Mysteries of Udolpho, a female Gothic novelist.
Anne Radcliffe
5

106652-)
A man in this novel marries the widow of a fellow matchbox cover collector. In this novel's epilogue, the narrator visits a chapel and remarks on a "small red flame" burning, which "could not have been lit but for the builders and the tragedians." This novel's author's note reads "I am not I: thou art not he or she: they are not they." This novel's first section is titled for a phrase written on a skull in the narrator's dorm room, "Et in Arcadia Ego." This novel's narrator befriends a man who carries a teddy bear to Oxford, then gets divorced so he can marry Julia, who changes her mind after her father's deathbed reconciliation with the Catholic Church. For 10 points, name this novel in which Charles Ryder visits Sebastian Flyte at the title estate, written by Evelyn Waugh.
Brideshead Revisited, The Sacred and Profane Memories of Captain Charles Ryder
7

106676-)
In one literary work, this character gets a letter from Daniel and ventures into the forest to find him, only to frighten a child who mistakes him for a zombie from obeah. This character refuses to call his spouse by her real name and sleeps with Amelie during a honeymoon in Granbois. In another novel, he is first introduced falling off his horse and slipping on ice. This character also dresses up like a gypsy and tells fortunes to solicit the true feelings of the title character of that novel. This guardian of Adele Varens hires Grace Poole to take care of his insane wife, Bertha Mason, who he keeps locked in the attic of Thornfield Hall before she sets fire to it. For 10 points, name this character who appears in Jean Rhys' Wide Sargasso Sea and eventually marries Charlotte Bronte's Jane Eyre.
Edward Fairfax Rochester [or Edward Rochester]
7

106683-)
The speaker of a poem by this man describes a rose that "grows and smells" "not of itself" but of his lover, whose kiss he considers a fine substitute for wine. Another poem by this man mourns a child "lent to [him]" for "seven years" whom he regards as "his best piece of poetry," and is entitled "On My First Son." At the end of one of this author's plays, a villainous servant is forced to become a galley slave, and the forced retirement of an old gentleman results in property inheritance for Bonario, the son of Corbaccio. This author of "Song to Celia" and creator of Mosca also wrote a play in Epicure Mammon is convinced that Jeremy and Subtle have the philosopher's stone. For 10 points, name this British poet and playwright of Volpone and The Alchemist.
Ben Jonson
7

106696-)
In one of these poems by this author, the speaker tells three ghostly figures "in placid sandals, and in white robes" on the third time they pass by that they "cannot raise / [his] head cool-bedded in the flowery grass." Those three figures in that poem of this type are Love, Ambition, and Poesy.  In another of these poems by this author, the speaker wishes to "leave the world unseen," realizes that "Beauty cannot keep her lustrous eyes," and wonders if the title creature's music was "a vision, or a waking dream." In another of these poems by this man, the speaker observes an "Attic shape" depicting a procession and opines that "beauty is truth, truth beauty." For 10 points, name these poems written by a British Romantic about such subjects as indolence, a nightingale, and a Grecian urn.
odes by John Keats [prompt on "odes"]
7

106713-)
This play's protagonist ironically claims to hold a woman "as dear / As Agamemnon did his Iphigen," and later promises to curse her to death "like Cain by Adam." In this play, when a man is asked what brought him to the play's setting, he replies "The wind that bloweth all the world besides, / Desire of gold." This play's protagonist tricks Mathias and Lodowick into killing each other. This play is introduced by a character who "[counts] religion but a childish toy," Machiavel, and features Ferneze seizing property to pay off the Turkish prince Calymath. This play ends after a trapdoor drops the father of the repentant Abigail into a boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name this play about Barabas, a merchant on the title Mediterranean island, by Christopher Marlowe.
The Jew of Malta
7

106732-)
One essay claims that, like the Mona Lisa, more people consider this work "a work of art because they have found it interesting, than interesting because it is a work of art." J.M. Robertson and Minnesota professor Elmer Stoll studied it as a "stratification" with a series of authors. An essay on this literary work claims it doesn't contain any "chain[s] of events" or physical things representing "particular emotion[s]." Thomas Kyd may have written a proposed "Ur-" version of this play, which is an "artistic failure" because it lacks an "objective correlative" according to a T.S. Eliot essay on the title character "and His Problems." This plays' backstory includes poison in a king's ear. For 10 points, name this tragedy in which poisoned wine kills Queen Gertrude after a ghost talks to her princely Danish son.
The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
7

106759-)
This author wrote that "the hues of bliss more brightly glow/chastised by sabler tints of woe" in one poem, and he asked "Oh! Lyre divine, what daring Spirit/Wakes thee now?" in his "The Progress of Poesy." He also described "sorrow's piercing dart" in a poem which ends by noting that "where ignorance is bliss/tis folly to be wise." Another of his poems says that "pensive Selima reclined" and "purr's applause" before "she tumbled headlong in." For 10 points, name this author of "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College" and "On a Favorite Cat, Drowned in a Tub of Gold Fishes," who wrote about "paths of glory" and "ignoble strife" in "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard." 
Thomas Gray
7

106772-)
One character in this play is asked "which of your hips has the most profound sciatica?" before declaring that she is "custom-shrunk." In addition to characters mentioned in passsing such as "Master Shooty" and "lusty Pudding," this play includes the servant Pompey, the bumbling policeman Elbow, and Mistress Overdone. Also appearing is the former fiancee Mariana, who secretly exchanges herself for the intended companion of a sexual rendezvous after Claudio puts Isabella in a vulnerable position. Ultimately, a gossipy friar is revealed as Duke Vincentio. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which the hypocrite Angelo is appointed to reform the morals of Vienna. 
Measure for Measure
7

106801-)
This character peruses a seven-volume pictographic atlas called The Wonder of England. He remembers his father telling him a story about a man finding a tiger under the dining table and shooting it in time for dinner. In a comedic moment, he's given the awkward task of explaining "the facts of life" to the 23 year old Reginald Cardinal. This character's father dies during a conference concerning the harshness of the Peace of Versailles. The novel in which he appears ends with this character sitting on a pier in Weymouth. Dr. Carlisle is the only resident of Moscombe who sees through his assertion that he personally knows Churchill and Lord Halifax. This man struggles with his missed opportunity for a relationship with the housekeeper Miss Kenton and with the growing realization that his employer Mr. Darlington was a Nazi sympathizer. FTP, name this protagonist of Kazuo Ishiguro's The Remains of the Day. 
Stevens
9

106889-)
This author wrote about a vulgar genre of art that gives expression to the "Sancho Panza view of life" whose "whole meaning"lies in its "unredeemed lowness" and in another work described his home country as "a family with the wrong membersin control". This author criticized a famous poet for the phrase "necessary murder" which he argues could "only be writtenby a person to whom murder is at most a word." This author wrote about dirty comics in "The Art of Donald McGill" anddescribed his horrifying education at the prep school Crossgates in "Such, Such Were the Joys." He borrowed a metaphor froman essay on Anais Nin to describe a certain writer as a willing Jonah. This author defended Henry Miller in his essay "Insidethe Whale" and satirically translated a passage from Ecclesiastes into modern English in an essay that argues political writinghas become "the defense of the indefensible." For 10 points, name this British author who wrote the essays "Politics and theEnglish Language" and "Shooting an Elephant".
George Orwell
8

106895-)
In one work by this man, a spendthrift and liar left penniless after her father's death, Lizzie, is wed by Sir Florian. Another work by this author treats the owners of a titular estate, Lady and Lucius Mason. In addition to The Eustace Diamonds and Orley Farm, this author wrote about Charlotte Stanhope and Dr. Grantly, the archdeacon of the titular location, as well as Obadiah Slope, the chaplain, Mrs. and Bishop Proudie, Septimus Hardy, and Lady Glencora. For 10 points, identify this author of a series of novels taking place in Barsetshire county, Barchester Towers, a prolific nineteenth-century British novelist. 
Anthony Trollope
7

106936-)
Its protagonist practices "bantering" with his new boss, although his jokes fall flat. The protagonist is mistaken for a gentleman at Moscombe and receives a letter from Mrs. Benn, after which this novel's main character goes to Weymouth with a job offer. Real characters in this novel include George Bernard Shaw, who examines the silver at a house party, Lloyd George, and Joachim von Ribbentrop, who tries to influence British politcs by using Lord Darlington. Taking place in a flashback to a trip in Mr. Farraday's Packard, its climax shows Miss Kenton returning to her husband, leaving Stevens with a broken heart. For 10 points, name this Kazuo Ishiguro novel about a butler. 
The Remains of the Day
7

106951-)
In Dryden's version, the female lead has a sister named Dorinda and a brother named Hippolito who was often played by a woman. Twentieth century adaptations of the original play include Minoru Fujita's bunraku version and Percy MacKaye's masque about the antagonist "by the Yellow Sands." Hogarth's "Scene from" it features the female lead in the centre with her father and lover both on the left, and Derek Jarman's film version of this play, whose minor characters include the drunk butler Stephano, features Sycorax breastfeeding a fully-grown Caliban. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play about Miranda and her marooned magician father Prospero. 
The Tempest
7

106996-)
Rudyard Kipling wrote a sequel to this poem about the title group's visit to the author asking him to writeanother poem in their honor. This poem uses a phrase paralleling a verse in Psalm 23. In this poem, "All the worldwondered" as "Cossack and Russian / Reeled from the saber stroke," leading the author to ask, "When can theirglory fade?" According to this poem, it was "theirs not to make reply, / theirs not to reason why, / theirs but to doand die." The title event of this poem took place during the Battle of Balaclava. For 10 points, name this 1854 poemby Alfred, Lord Tennyson, about "the six hundred" cavalrymen riding "into the Valley of Death."
"The Charge of the Light Brigade"
3

107017-)
 One character in this novel believes that he has the "troubles" of Charles I in his head. The title character's auntsends him to a boarding school in Canterbury after he ran away from his job at a wine-bottling company. The titlecharacter was brought up by Peggotty after initially being sent to boarding school at Salem House after biting hisstepfather, Mr. Murdstone. This novel begins with a remark from the title character that the "following pages" willshow who is the hero of his life. For 10 points, name this novel following the title character's life and marriage toAgnes Wickfield, a semi-autobiographical work by Charles Dickens.
The Personal History, Adventures, Experience and Observation of David Copperfield the Younger of Blunderstone Rookery (Which He Never Meant to Publish on Any Account)
3

107020-)
 One of this author's poems ends by noting that "the ship is more than the crew." The painter Dick goes blind inthis author's The Light that Failed. In another work by this author, the narrator tells the title water-bearer, "You're abetter man than I am." A poem by this author advises the listener to "meet with Triumph and Disaster / And treatthose imposters just the same" before exclaiming "you'll be a Man, my son!" This author of "Gunga Din" and "IfÂ—" wrote a collection of stories featuring a boy who is raised by a pack of wolves and is hunted by Shere Khan. For 10points, name this British author who wrote about Mowgli in The Jungle Book.
Joseph Rudyard Kipling
3

107032-)
This character was born as a Maia named OlÃ³rin, living in the garden of Irmo and studying under Nienna. Thischaracter was called Lathspell and Stormcrow while at Edoras, and he was named Mithrandir by the Elves andTharkÃ»n by the dwarves. This rider of Shadowfax discovered his weapon in a trollhoard, and used that swordGlamdring on Zirakzigil to slay Durin's Bane. After falling in Moria, he later returned to command troops at theBattles of Helm's Deep, Minas Tirith, and the Black Gate. For 10 points, name this leader of the Company of Thorinand the Fellowship of the Ring, a Gray, and later White, wizard in J.R.R. Tolkien's Lord of the Rings trilogy andThe Hobbit
Gandalf the Grey [or Gandalf the White; accept IncÃ¡nus; accept Lathspell or Stromcrow or Mithrandir or TharkÃ»n before mentioned; prompt on "Greyhame" or "Old Greybeard" or "The White Rider" or "The Grey Pilgrim"]
3

107037-)
This author wrote about the deaths of Vashti and Kuno after the collapse of a universal machine in "TheMachine Stops." In a novel by this man, Leonard Bast dies at the hands of Charles Wilcox and Margaret Schlegelinherits the title estate from Henry Wilcox. Besides writing Howards End, this writer described the arrogant CecilVyse and the elopement of George Emerson with Lucy Honeychurch in another work. In a different novel by thisauthor, Adela Quested brings a false accusation of sexual harassment against Dr. Aziz, a young Muslim physician inthe title location. For 10 points, name this British author of A Room with a View and A Passage to India.
 Edward Morgan Forster
3

107055-)
One character in this work responds to an assignment by averring "Bell, book, and candle shall not drive me back, when gold and silver becks me to come on" and rails against self-interest in a speech which ends "Since kings break faith upon commodity, gain, be my lord, for I will worship thee!" That character convinces two armies to stop fighting and join forces to take the city of Angiers and acquires a lion skin by killing the Duke of Austria. A superfluous second coronation in this play prompts Salisbury to list other redundancies, including the oft-misquoted line "to gild refined gold, to paint the lily". The papal legate Pandulph excommunicates the title character, who orders Hubert de Burgh to kill his primary rival, Arthur of Brittany. It opens with Elinor recognizing Philip Faulconbridge, later known as the Bastard, as the son of Richard the Lionhearted. FTP, name this history play by William Shakespeare, which does not mention its title character signing the Magna Carta.
The Life and Death of King John
9

107077-)
One important military figure in this play calls the desire for power a "universal wolf" and blames discord on an abusive slave in a speech given directly after Antenor and his compatriots are compared unfavorably to one of the titular characters. In Act IV, a titular figure is kissed by almost all of the Greek commanders and then called "wanton" by Ulysses. That occurs after Antenor has been exchanged at the prompting of Calchas, while later in the same act Thersites watches as Diomedes receives a sleeve as a token. Hector dies in the last act and Pandarus acts as a go-between in, for 10 points, what Shakespeare play about two Trojan lovers? 
Troilus and Cressida
7

107090-)
A key scene in this work takes place at a bar called "Fishermen's Rest" and recalls another character's unsuccessful wooing of Angele. Its numerous sequels include I Will Repay and The Laughing Cavalier, and describe a namesake "league" created by Philip Glynde and Richard Galveston. It closes on the ship Day Dream, while minor characters include Tony Dewhurst and Andrew Foulkes. De Comte is able to come along for the ride after Chauvelin is thwarted and Armand St. Just is rescued, and Marguerite discovers that her husband, Percy Blakeney, is secretly rescuing victims of the French Revolution in, for 10 points, what colorfully-titled novel by Baroness Emma Orczy? 
The Scarlet Pimpernel
7

107132-)
One of this author's characters says sleeping with his wife was "like reading Samuel Beckett on an empty stomach." That novel, Love, was followed by a novel about Desiderio, who is out to kill the title character who is employing the titular device powered by 50 copulating couples to wage war, called The Infernal Desire Machines of Dr. Hoffman. Black Venus is a fictionalization of Lizzie Borden and Baudelaire's syphilitic mistress. Her last novel tells of the title twin girls who are the illegitimate daughters of a Shakespearean actor. For 10 points, name this English feminist science fiction and magical realist author of Wise Children and Nights at the Circus. 
Angela Carter
7

107144-)
The title figure of this poem "on honey-dew hath fed, / And drunk the milk of Paradise," leading the author towarn "Beware! Beware!" The inspiration for this poem supposedly came from a dream after the author had fallenasleep reading Purchas his Pilgrimage but was interrupted by "a person on business from Porlock." This poemdescribes "forests ancient as the hills / Enfolding sunny spots of greenery," as well as "an Abyssinian maid, /[playing] on her dulcimerÂ… / Singing of Mount Abora." For 10 points, name this poem describing "a sunnypleasure-dome with caves of ice" in Xanadu, home of the title figure, written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
"Kubla Khan; Or, A Vision in a Dream. A Fragment."
3

107157-)
In one poem by this author, the narrator tells the reader to "Bring me my Bow of burning gold" and "Arrows of desire." Besides writing a poem in which John Milton enters the author's foot in the form of a comet, this author wrote a poem about a small boy whose friend Tom Dacre weeps when his hair is shaved. In addition to writing "The Chimney Sweeper," this author also described a tree that he "watered night and morning with my tears" in "A Poison Tree." In another poem, he marvels at the "fearful symmetry" of a beast "burning bright / In the forests of the night." For 10 points, name this English poet whose Songs of Innocence and Experience includes "The Tyger."
William Blake
3

107217-)
In one novel, this character tries and fails to scare off a ram and later gets stuck in a tree, where a bull tries toknock him out. This character is commanded to sing of walls after he slips on blood, and he is previously told by adragon to find some gold and sit on it. In another work, this character's blood melts a sword when his head is cutoff. He is unable to approach the throne in that work because he is said to be a descendant of Cain. Anothercharacter pretends to be asleep before fighting this character unarmed, and this character runs back to his cave to dieafter his arm is pulled off. For 10 points, name this stalker of Heorot, the first monster slain by Beowulf.
Grendel
3

107237-)
In one novel by this author, The Professor always carries a suicide bomb, and Verloc is tasked with destroyingthe Greenwich Observatory. In another work by this author, Charles Gould uses his money to support Ribiera'sdictatorship of Costaguana. As well as The Secret Agent and Nostromo, this author wrote of a sailor who abandons asinking ship on its way to Mecca. The narrator of that work by this author finds a note reading "Exterminate all thebrutes" in a novel describing an insane ivory trader on the Congo River, whose last words are "The horror! Thehorror!" For 10 points, name this author of Lord Jim who wrote of Marlow and Kurtz in Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad [or JÃ³zef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
3

107252-)
At a party, one character in this work plays Clytemnestra during a game of charades. After giving a note to awoman at a ball asking her to elope with him, one character in this novel dies at the Battle of Waterloo. Jos dies aftersigning a large amount of life insurance money to one character. Rawdon Crawley and George Osborne marry thetwo central characters in this work. The action of this novel begins after the central characters have completed theireducation at Miss Pinkerton's Academy for Young Ladies. For 10 points, name this "Novel Without a Hero" aboutAmelia Sedley and Becky Sharp, written by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair: A Novel Without A Hero
3

107267-)
This man's A Treatise on the Binomial Theorem gained him a teaching position at the University of Durham. Thisman commissioned a German inventor named von Herder to create an air gun disguised as a cane for his assistant,Moran. A man disguised as a Catholic priest spots this man trying to stop a train out of England toward Belgium,and this man later pursues that deerstalker-capped investigator to Switzerland. In "The Final Problem," thischaracter plummets to his death after a duel above the Reichenbach Falls with a character whom he allows to write aletter to Watson. For 10 points, name this "Napoleon of crime" and arch-nemesis of Sherlock Holmes.
Professor James Moriarty [prompt on "James"]
3

107290-)
 Peasants in this novel hold a "skimmity-ride" to embarrass a man who is having an affair, causing a pregnantwoman's death. At the end of this book, Elizabeth-Jane finds a will that only wants that the will's writer beforgotten. While drunk, the title character makes a deal with the sailor Newsom at the beginning of this novel, butregrets it and forswears drinking for twenty years afterwards. Rain on the day of festivities organized by the titlecharacter starts a rivalry with a former business partner, Donald Farfrae. For 10 points, name this novel aboutMichael Henchard, the administrative head of a certain English town who sells his daughter and wife, by ThomasHardy.
The Mayor of Casterbridge: The Life and Death of a Man of Character
3

107318-)
In one work by this author, the protagonist meets his Aunt Augusta for the first time in fifty years and thenlearns of Woodsworth, her lover from Sierra Leone. In another work, this man wrote of Beatrice Severn, thesecretary of the main character who was a retailer of vacuum cleaners before becoming a secret agent. A novel byhim centers on the affair between Sarah Miles and Maurice Bendrix, and another focuses on the journalist ThomasFowler. Another work by this author of Our Man in Havana describes the travels of a whiskey priest in Mexico. Forten points, name this British author of The Power and the Glory, The End of the Affair, and The Quiet American.
Henry Graham Greene
3

107339-)
 The speaker of this poem sees a man "through the misty panes" "flound'ring like a man in fire or lime" anddrowning "under a green sea." In this poem, "outstripped Five-Nines dropped behind" men who were "Bent double,like old beggars under sacks." The speaker of this poem dreams of a man with "white eyes writhing in Â… / hishanging face, like a devil's sick of sin" as "blood / [came] gargling from [his] froth-corrupted lungs." The speaker ofthis poem claims that one should not tell "children ardent for some desperate glory" the title "old Lie," quoted fromHorace. For 10 points, name this poem describing a gas attack during World War I, written by Wilfred Owen.
"Dulce et Decorum est"
3

107373-)
This author used the Welsh surgeon Dr. Morgan as a background character in two different novels, one of which incorporates the memoirs of Lady Vane and contains a fortunately timed repayment of a loan by Benjamin Chintz. The protagonist of that novel married Emilia Gauntlet after leaving prison. This author also wrote of the poor speller Win Jenkins and of an officer on the HMS Thunder who gets a job for his nephew, who later fights for Louis XIV. Another of this title characters is found, via a snuff box, to be the bastard son of Matthew Bramble. For 10 points, name this author of Peregrine Pickle, Roderick Random, and Humphrey Clinker. 
Tobias Smollett
7

107394-)
One character in this work claims that she "shall never brook a Spaniard" because she could not abide them since before her birth. Secondary characters include Ananias, who preaches Puritan philosophy while attempting to bribe two characters for household articles. Dapper, a lawyer's clerk, believes he will be visited by the Queen of Fairy, while Sir Epicure Mammon attempts to woo the prostitute Dol Common. Master Lovewit, who had left London because of the plague, returns at the end of the play to marry Dame Pliant and foil the schemes of Face. For 10 points, name this Ben Jonson play in which the swindler Subtle pretends to create the philosopher's stone.  
The Alchemist
7

107397-)
At one point, this character spends three months' pay on three meals, a complete set of Byron's works, and a railway rug. He later travels for Bangkok with first mate Mahon on the Judea, whose hold explodes from spontaneous combustion. Later in life, he sits on the trial of a man who acquired the title of "Tuan" on the settlement of Patusan. In his most famous appearance, he sits on the Nellie and reflects that the Thames was once the barbarous part of the earth, before discussing his encounter with the district manager and his journey up the Congo to meet Mr. Kurtz. For 10 points, name this Joseph Conrad character who narrates "Youth," Lord Jim, and Heart of Darkness.  
Charlie Marlow
7

107401-)
In an early draft of this poem, the author compared himself to cast-off shoes and used dolphins as carriers to the afterlife. The former image was changed to a scarecrow, "a tattered coat upon a stick. " The first stanza contrasts "The salmon-falls, the mackerel-crowded seas" with "Monuments of unageing intellect," while the last stanza alludes to a golden bird, "a form such as Grecian goldsmiths make Â… set upon a golden bough. " The speaker says his heart is "fastened to a dying animal" as he gazes into a golden mosaic, wishing to leave his home that "is no country for old men. " For 10 points, name this W. B. Yeats poem that expresses a desire to travel to Constantinople.  
"Sailing to Byzantium"
7

107413-)
He is called a "squidgy-nosed old idol" and "white, clear white, inside." He replaced one "Harry By" when he "couldn't serve us all." The poet notes that "you could bet your bloomin' nut, he'd be waitin' fifty paces right flank rear." Called a "Lazarushian leather," he carries the men into safety then asks if they liked their drink. Though he's been belted and flayed, this character from Barrack-Room Ballads does his job on water and "by the livin' God that made" him, he's a "better man than I am." For 10 points, name this Rudyard Kipling poem about a Hindu water boy. 
"Gunga Din"
7

107426-)
In the first edition of this book, the preface mentions that the title is to be pronounced with three syllables. Chapters 23 to 25 are all called "The Book of the Machines," and Chapter 15, "The Musical Banks", discusses how banks would not honor other banks' coins and how churches would often complete money exchanges. The entire country where this occurs becomes a satire of Victorian society and its geographic features are modeled loosely after New Zealand. Higgs is the narrator of, fo 10 points, what 1872 novel by Samuel Butler, where names are both anagrams and spelt backwards, such as its original title, "Nowhere"? 
Erewhon; or Over the Range
7

107441-)
One character in this novel marries the vain Louisa Lily Western. who runs away after his death. The protagonist works at Thomas Jordan &amp; Sons, a warehouse of surgical appliances, under his boss Mr. Pappleworth and often watches the hunchback factory girl Fanny. The protagonist attends Art School and two of his sketches win first prize at Nottingham Castle; he takes them to Willey Farm where they are admired by Miriam Lievers but cannot return Miriam's love and instead turns to the suffragette Clara Dawes. The novel ends as the main character's mother Gertrude is given an overdose of morphine. For 10 points, name this book about Paul Morel by D.H Lawrence.    
Sons and Lovers
7

107445-)
In one of his plays, the Spanish judge Crispiano spies on his son Julio while the central merchant Romelio attempts to keep his sister away from Contarino and is sued by his mother Leonora for bastardy. In addition to The Devil's Law Case, he also collaborated on Appius and Virginia and authored a play which features the line "Cover her face. Mine eyes dazzle. She died young." In another play, Lodovico and Gasparo disguise themselves as Capuchin monks to uncover the crime of the Duke of Brachiano and his secretary Flamineo, the brother of Vittoria Corombona. For 10 points, name this author of The White Devil and The Duchess of Malfi. 
John Webster
7

107464-)
He never wrote a planned forty-page essay called On the Imaginative in Poetry, which was to be the preface to his universally derided reinterpretation of The Winter's Tale entitled Zapolya.  One of his poems discusses a "Dark green file of long lank weeds," and he also wrote about "silent icicles, quietly shining to the quiet moon" in "Frost at Midnight." In one of his poems, "slimy things did crawl upon my legs" and the "bloody sun...did stand no higher than the moon" as a result of a rash action taken with a crossbow and described to a wedding-guest. For 10 points, name this author of "Christabel" and "Dejection: An Ode" who wrote "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner." 
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
7

107473-)
One of these events is the site of the first appearance of Mr. Hurst, his wife, and his sister-in-law, Caroline, the latter of whom disparages the possibility of one of these events occurring at Netherfield as a punishment, not a pleasure. A mischievous soldier does not attend one of them to avoid Georgiana's brother. During one of these events in Meryton, Jane is referred to as "the most beautiful creature" in the room by Mr. Bingley, while Jane's sister is derided as "tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me" by Mr. Darcy. For 10 points, name this type of social dance event common in the novels of Jane Austen.
balls in Pride and Prejudice [or dances before it is read; prompt on party or obvious equivalents]
7

107485-)
The protagonist of this novel claims that marriage "drinks up all of our power of giving" love and that it "stays with us like a murder." A banker in this novel used to be a pawnbroker selling stolen goods, a fact he tries to cover up by contributing to the death of Sir John Raffles. That banker is Nicholas Bulstrode. The protagonist's husband dies before he can complete The Key to All Mythologies. In this novel, the mayor's daughter, Rosamond Vincy, is attracted to the doctor, Tertius Lydgate. This novel ends with the protagonist announcing she will marry Will Ladislaw. For 10 points, name this George Eliot novel about Dorothea Brooke set in the title town.
Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life
7

107514-)
 One character in this novel begins to fantasize about being a police detective after hearing about anincident in which a man exposed himself to teenage girls at the Water of Leith. In this novel, a characterwho finds a nightgown under a pillow gets a choirmaster removed from a church, and another person whoreveals malfeasance writes The Transfiguration of the Commonplace after taking the name Sister Helena.The Kerr sisters, who are supposed to teach sewing, keep house for Gordon Lowther in this novel, in whichMary McGregor works as a typist before dying in a hotel fire and Sandy Stranger ultimately snitches on thetitle character to Miss Mackay. Of the title character's "set," which she refers to as the "creme de la crÃ¨me,"only Joyce Hammond takes the advice to go fight for the Francoists in the Spanish Civil War. For 10points, name this novel in which the Fascist-sympathizing lover of Teddy Lloyd is fired from the MarciaBlane School for Girls, written by Muriel Spark.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie
9

107528-)
Fred Barnard's illustrations for this novel included two captioned with the lines "I say there's fowlstomorrow, not skinny ones, oh no" and "You're a pair of Whittingtons, gents, without the cat". In this novel,the Anglo-Bengalee Disinterested Loan and Life Insurance Company is led by a business associate ofChevy Slyme, who ends up murdered in the woods in a crime exposed by the detective Nadgett. Severallodgers at the Blue Dragon Inn are affected by the death of Montague Tigg in this novel, whose antagonistsinclude a moralizing self-proclaimed architect who has never constructed a building and Jonas, who tries topoison his father. Before the title character marries Mary Graham, a year of this novel's plot is consumedby the disastrous emigration to "Eden," a worthless plot of land in the U.S. For 10 points, name this novelin which Seth Pecksniff is exposed, written by Charles Dickens.
Martin Chuzzlewit
9

107576-)
This play was criticized by Samuel Johnson as containing a beginning and an end but no middle. Theauthor's preface to this play notes that "the Apostle Paul himself thought it not unworthy to insert a verse ofEuripides into the text of Holy Scripture" and concludes with a defense of the Aristotelian unity of time.This play is prefaced with the short essay "Of That Sort of Dramatic Poem Called Tragedy." Theprotagonist of this play questions whether his people enjoy being slaves and attempts to goad Harapha intocoming close enough to fight him. Manoa delivers the news that the present holiday is in honor of Dagon tothe title character, who initially refuses to attend the festival. Originally issued in the same volume asParadise Regained, it begins with the title character "eyeless in Gaza." For 10 points, name this JohnMilton closet drama that ends with the Philistine temple being pulled down by the lover of Delilah.
Samson Agonistes
9

107600-)
This man compared using poetry to eliminate the pain of his unrequited love to rivers that "purge seawaters' fretful salt away" in a poem that ends "a little wise, the best fools be." Another of his poems urges"love me that I may die the gentler way, hate me because they love's too great for me." This author of "TheTriple Fool" and "The Prohibition" wrote to the Countess of Bedford about "the spider love, whichtransubstantiates all, and can convert Manna to gall" in "Twickham Garden." He suggested "ride tenthousand days and nights, til age snow white hairs on thee" in a poem listing impossible tasks such as "tellme where all past years are, or who cleft the devil's foot" that begins "go and catch a falling star." Anotherof his poems ends "except you enthrall me, never shall be free, nor ever chaste, except you ravish me" andasks "batter my heart, three-personed God." For 10 points, name this author of "A Valediction: ForbiddingMourning" and the Holy Sonnets, a Metaphysical poet.
 John Donne
9

107601-)
This author wrote a children's book in which the body of a dead snake is used as a clothesline after 297eggs are eaten. In a novel by him, the devout bookshop owner Bruno Rontini helps retrieve a Degaspainting, but is imprisoned by Fascists as a result, after uncle Eustace promises to buy a new tuxedo forteenage poet Sebastian Barnack. This author of The Crows of Pearblossom and Time Must Have a Stop alsowrote a novel in which the painter Ivor Lombard is frightened away by the psychoanalysis-obsessed MaryBracegirdle, and Priscilla uses astrology to bet on horse races. In that novel by this author, the wishy-washypoet Denis Stone fails in his pursuit of Anne Wimbush at the title estate. For 10 points, name this author ofCrome Yellow who also penned Point Counter Point and Brave New World.
Aldous Huxley
9

107609-)
On the opposite wall from this text, a poem by Minimus which praises the "friend of fatherless, fountainof happiness" is inscribed. Immediately after this text disappears, a radio is purchased and subscriptions aretaken out to "John Bull, TitBits, and the Daily Mirror." These sentences are originally displayed with abackwards "S" and the word "friend" misspelled "f-r-e-i-n-d." After a crash is heard at midnight oneevening, a broken ladder is found near this writing, along with a lantern and a pot of white paint.Eventually, phrases such as "without cause," "to excess," and "with sheets" are added to these sentences,which originally prohibited drinking alcohol, sleeping in beds, and wearing clothes. Ultimately, the finalone of these sentences replaces the entire set and is altered to note that some "are more equal than others."For 10 points, identify these proclamations originally painted on the wall of a barn by Snowball, whichgovern the rebellious pigs, dogs, and others in a George Orwell novel.
the Seven Commandments of Animal Farm [or descriptive equivalents such as the rules of Animal Farm; or the Seven Commandments of Animalism, etc.]
9

107638-)
This author chronicled purported occultists in his Lives of the Necromancers and wrote a novel inspiredby the long-undiscovered murderer Eugene Aram, Deloraine. He derived the plot and the subtitle fromseparate works of Henry Mackenzie in his Fleetwood. In a novel by this man, the title character develops arivalry with Gines while a member of a gang of thieves and learns that when Emily Melvile was saved froma fire, Barnabas Tyrrel grew so tyrannical that Ferdinando Falkland eventually killed him. This author of afour-volume 1820s history of England advocated the total dissolution of government and the coming of afuture utopia based on the reason of free peoples in his controversial Enquiry Concerning Political Justice.For 10 points, name this author of Caleb Williams who initially resisted social pressure to marry MaryWollstonecraft when she was pregnant with his daughter Mary Shelley.
 William Godwin
9

107661-)
This character attracts attention for wearing shiny boots three times a week and switching hispreference from brown to black hair. This character erases words off of a coffin to conceal the fact that adead woman had been pregnant, after he has to dispose of a corpse when Joseph Poorgrass becomes toodrunk to fulfill the task. He is scolded for speaking ill of the man who jilted Fanny Robin. This man is hiredat Weatherbury Farm after helping to put out a barn fire during his wanderings after his dog chases all ofhis sheep off a cliff, and he takes over management of the estate of William Boldwood after the murder ofSergeant Troy. For 10 points, name this farmer who is finally able to marry Bathsheba Everdene at the endof Thomas Hardy's Far From the Madding Crowd.
Gabriel Oak [or Gabriel]
9

107671-)
This book's end states that the protagonist knows everything except why hen's eggs do not hatch intocrocodiles, that it has either thirty-seven or thirty-nine moral lessons, and that no one in a fairy tale may bemarried if they are not of princely rank. At Vendale, the protagonist of this novel is reminded by the ringingof church bells of his shock at seeing a mirror in Ellie Harthover's room. The protagonist of this novelconquers Waste-Paper-Land and the Sea of Slops at the Other-end-of-Nowhere after visiting the ShinyWall and Peacepool run by Mother Carey and the title creatures' homeland at St. Brandan's Isle. Aftermeeting the fairies Mrs. Bedonebyasyoudid and Mrs. Doasyouwouldbedoneby, the chimney sweep Tomfinally achieves his desired cleanliness, which caused him to fall into a stream and meet a variety of aquaticcreatures in this book. For 10 points, name this allegory for Christian Socialism written by CharlesKingsley.
The Water-Babies: A Fairy Tale for a Land-Baby
9

107706-)
One of this man's stories involves a murder committed via stewed currants.  Another work by this author features a caricature entitled "The Fable of the Wall-Flower and the Sour Grapes" drawn by the deaf Jenny Mullion.  Characters in this man's works include the inventor of inflatable underwear and the leader of the Brotherhood of British Freemen, and one of this man's novels features a millionaire once called "Jelly-Belly" who repeatedly tells himself "God is love, there is no death," Jo Stoyte.  In addition to writing After Many a Summer Dies a Swan, this man wrote about Walter Bidlake and Phillip Quarles in Point Counter Point.   FTP, name this author who also created John the Savage and Bernard Marx in Brave New World. 
Aldous Huxley 
8

107749-)
One character in this novel repeatedly poses as a bespectacled Jewish peddler to meet with the woman he loves.  The arrival of the title character is precipitated by a dog biting then being kicked by a servant in one of two scenes involving upturned carriages.  Another character in this novel marries Lieutenant Obadiah Lismahago, who tells stories of fighting Indians.  The protagonist is released from jail after convincing the other inmates to stop visiting the jail's taproom, and his identity is eventually revealed by examining a snuff box.  The Jewish peddler turns out to be George Dennison, whom Jerry Melford attempts to duel over his affection for Lydia.  Upon hearing the name Matthew Lloyd, the protagonist learns that he is actually Squire Bramble's son, but marries the maid Winifred anyway.  For 10 points name this novel about a servant and Methodist preacher, the final novel of Tobias Smollett. 
The Expedition of Humphry Clinker 
8

107754-)
One character in this novel mistakenly suggests that Alfred Hitchcock directed Charade while trapped in an elevator with a character who drives an orange Volkswagen Beetle named Garcia. In this novel, Truman the Third, who climbed Mauna Kea, is the only member to live past fifty of a tribe that fears a demon called Old Georgie. After Dermot Hoggins throws Felix Finch off a balcony for giving his book Knuckle Sandwich a bad review, a character in this novel gets trapped in Aurora House, a home for the elderly. One character in has an affair with Jocasta Commelynck while serving as an amanuensis for the syphilitic composer Vyvyan Ayrs. Another protagonist leads a revolution of fabricants in dystopic Korea, and is named Somni-451. Consisting of six nested narratives, such as Letters from Zeldeghem and The Ghastly Ordeal of Timothy Cavendish, it was published six years before the same author's The Thousand Autumns of Jacob de Zoet. FTP, name this novel by David Mitchell.
Cloud Atlas
9

107765-)
This poem repeats the line "Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers". It describes war as a time "When the ranks are roll'd in vapor, and the winds are laid with sound". The speaker proclaims "Woman is the lesser man" and says "Nature made them blinder motions bounded in a shallower brain". This poem describes a woman "whom to look at was to love". Twice, the speaker exclaims that he "dipt into the future, far as human eye could see, / Saw the Vision of the world, and all the wonder that would be", before giving a Utopian vision of the future in which all are united by the "universal law" of the "Parliament of man". The speaker says "In the spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love" before describing his romance with a woman who jilted him at her father's request, his cousin Amy. FTP, name this dramatic monologue by Alfred Lord Tennyson, named for the Lincolnshire estate where the speaker spent his youth.
"Locksley Hall"
9

107778-)
This poet wrote about how "imprisoned larks escape and fly" when a "young bird-catcher" swept "off his tall hat to the squire's own daughter" in "Love Without Hope." He wrote "Love may be blind, but Love at least / Knows what is man and what mere beast," and quipped in another poem about how speech will "chill the angry day" and "dull the rose's cruel scent." The line "Be gone, have done!"  ends his poem "Down, Wanton, Down!" and he wrote that "Children are dumb to say how hot the day is" in "The Cool Web." To begin another poem, he famously wrote "all saints revile her, and all sober men," and he collaborated with Joshua Podro on The Nazarene Gospel Restored. FTP, name this English poet who wrote the autobiography Goodbye to All That, and wrote a "historical grammar of the language of poetic myth" in his study The White Goddess.
Robert Graves
9

107812-)
One family in this novel lives in a hall called Plumstead Episcopi, while the poor Mr. Quiverful lives in the dilipated house Puddingdale with 14 children before he's given a job running a hospital. The main female has two men propose to her during a party held at Ullathorne Court. The crippled-yet-seductive La Signora Madeline Vesey Neroni flirts with men while lying on her couch after she was forced to move from Italy when her father Vesey Stanhope was summoned. At the end of this novel, Francis Arabin is appointed dean and marries Eleanor Bold, who scorns the advances of the chaplain Obadiah Slope, while Septimus Harding eventually resigns from his position as warden of Hiram's Hospital. This novel begins after the death of Bishop Grantly when Dr. Proudie is controversially appointed as bishop of the title town. Preceded by The Warden, FTP, name this second novel in Anthony Trollope's Chronicles of Barsetshire. 
Barchester Towers
9

107829-)
In one of these poems, the narrator states that "his green seraglio has its eunuchs too" in scoffing at experimentation. In another poem from this sequence, a character who brags that "the Sun himself licks off my sweat" suffers a fatal wound and laments that "these hurts are slight/To those that dye by Loves despight" in his curtain speech. The first poem in this series pokes fun at Tulipmania by noting that "With strange perfumes he did the roses taint/And flowers themselves were taught to paint." The shortest of these poems describes the poisonous influence of the narrator's lover, who "my Mind hath so displac'd/That I shall never find my home," despite the guidance of the "courteous lights" of the title figure. "Luxurious man" is the conqueror of nature in the first one of these poems, whose title character says of his lover Juliana that "she, What I do to the grass, does to my thoughts and me." These pieces about Damon the fieldworker include a poem "to the glow-worms" and one "against gardens." FTP, name these four poems by Andrew Marvell.  
Mower poems
9

107883-)
In a novel by this author, the priest Basil Strode strips naked as part of the so-called "sun cure," but spends the rest of the novel trying to find his clothes. In another book, the evil Mardok meets a sexy deep sea photographer named Evelyn Hamilton who is living in a diving bell under the Mediterranean Sea - Mardok then blows up the world with his death ray, so he can repopulate it with Evelyn. Many of his poems were collected in The Flower of Old Japan, and he wrote a verse trilogy about great scientists in history entitled The Torch-Bearers. In his best known work, a jealous man called "Tim the Ostler" overhears the inn-keeper's daughter Bess talking to her lover. Bess shakes free from her bonds and shoots herself in the breast with a musket in order to warn her lover, who is out stealing gold. Also known for the poem "The Barrel-Organ," FTP, name this early 20th century English author who penned the poem "The Highwayman."
Alfred Noyes
9

107886-)
This poem opens with a New Year's celebration, but the king refuses to eat until he hears a marvelous story. An exceptionally long time is spent describing the armor of one of character, including the detail that the five points of the pentacle on his shield represent his virtues. After he prays to the Virgin Mary, the protagonist sees a castle where he plays a game with his host where they exchange things that they have captured during the day. The protagonist gives kisses to Lord Bertilak from his wife but does not tell him about the magical green girdle. In return for this transgression, he's given a scar on his neck, but not beheaded. FTP, name this poem attributed to the Pearl Poet about King Arthur's nephew and his colorful rival.
"Sir Gawain and the Green Knight"
9

107911-)
In one of this man's works, Therion and Espilus compete in a singing competition, while the schoolmaster Rombus hosts a debate. A lesser-known collection by this author includes the poem "The Seven Wonders of England," while another work is a response to Stephen Gosson's The School of Abuse. The song "Only joy, now here you are," follows a longer work by this author of the poem "Ring out your bells" and the masque The Lady of May. That collection includes pieces like "With how sad steps, O Moon, thou climb'st the skies!" and "Fly, fly, my friends, I have my death wound, fly!" and begins with "Loving in truth, and fain in verse my love to show." In another work, Musidorus announces to Pyrocles that he intends to elope with Pamela - that work was written for the Countess of Pembroke.  FTP, name this author of The Defense of Poesy, best known for the sonnet sequence Astrophel and Stella and Arcadia.
Sir Philip Sidney
9

107995-)
One character in this work muses on the concept of "Thalavethiparothiam," or "strength obtained by decapitation," while shaving the protagonist.  Recurring images in this novel include a horse branded with the number seven and posters for the film "The Hands of Orlac," running at the cinema owned by SeÃ±or Bustamante.  After watching his brother fight a bull, the protagonist drunkenly recalls waiting for Lee Maitland on a train platform, though she never arrived.  The conflict of the novel centers around his struggle to forgive his estranged wife Yvonne for her affair with Hugh, but she is eventually trampled to death by a horse while searching for him.  The story of the protagonist is told by Jacques Laurelle as he prepares to leave Quauhnahuac.  Taking place on the Day of the Dead, this is, for 10 points, what novel about the demise of Geoffrey Firmin by Malcolm Lowry? 
Under the Volcano 
8

108001-)
One anecdote told in this novel features a woman who abandons her lover Horatio in favor of another man's unsurpassed equipage.  An injury to the protagonist's leg precipitates a brawl at an inn that ends with one character being drenched in hog's blood. That character is later forced to battle some hunting dogs upon mistaken for a hare, and hilarity ensues after an accidental bedroom encounter with the bizarrely amorphous Mrs. Slipslop.  The resolution of this novel centers on the protagonist's strawberry-shaped birthmark, which is spoken of by his foster parents Gaffer and Gammer and his true father, Mr. Wilson..  Ending with the title character's marriage to Fanny Goodwill, this is, for 10 points, what novel about the adventures of Parson Abraham Adams and the brother of Pamela Booby, the first novel by Henry Fielding. 
The History of the Adventures of Joseph Andrews and of His Friend Mr. Abraham 
8

108018-)
The protagonist of this work criticizes fops and their Fashionable Novels in "The Dandiacal Body," and he eschews a belief system in which man is but an "omnivorous Biped that wears Breeches."  The protagonist asks, "What is this paltry little Dog-cage of an Earth?" in a chapter called "The Everlasting No," while in "The Everlasting Yea," the author commands the reader to "close thy Byron; open thy Goethe." The story of the protagonist is delivered in six paper bags to the narrator by Hofrath Heuschrecke, chronicling his life after being delivered in a basket to Andreas and Gretchen Futterall.  Jonathan Swift's comparison of man to a Micro-Coat inspired the title and recurring clothing motif of this novel, which centers on the adventures of a professor at the University of Weissnichtwo. For ten points name this work about Diogenes TeufelsdrÃ¶ckh by Thomas Carlyle. 
Sartor Resartus 
8

108042-)
The narrator of this work is forced to memorize the 330 sermons of the preacher Mr. H, and admires his classmate GÂ— for defending Grotius' adaptation of a legend about Muhammad's dove. Its first section ends with Lord Desert satisfying the conditions of Jewish moneylenders while the narrator desperately searches the streets of London for the child prostitute Ann. Later appended with the short essay "The Daughter of Lebanon," this work recounts a recurring dream of being chased by a hideous crocodile through Chinese houses in a section titled "the pains of" the title substance. Published in 1822, it describes the author's experiences with the title substance, which he takes as an anodyne for his terrible stomach pains. FTP, name this book by Thomas De Quincey about his addiction to the title drug. 
Confessions of an English Opium Eater 
8

108066-)
In one scene in this novel a one-legged character compares a dead bird to Cock Robin just before it is roasted on a spit.  A friend of the protagonist, Eugene, eventually marries the drifter's daughter Lizzie, and the central villain is kicked out of the house and into a garbage cart by the Golden Dustman. An affidavit from Rogue Riderhood clears suspicion of murder from Gaffer Hexam in this work, and that murder's investigator is a lawyer named Lightwood. The taxidermist Venus joins up with a greedy street peddler named Wegg to blackmail another character in this novel. Bella Wilfer initially rejects the protagonist, but is finally tricked into abandoning her money-lust by the Boffins, who inherit the protagonist's fortune but pretend not to realize he is still alive. For 10 points, name this work about John Harmon, who adopts the identities of Handford and Rokesmith, the last complete novel by Charles Dickens. 
Our Mutual Friend 
8

108102-)
Scenes of a castle siege and knights on a white horse decorate the woven red tapestry folded over in front of the title character's lap.  Three white candles, only of one which is lit, a lantern, and a miniature statue of Christ on the cross appear to the right of the title character, who was also depicted in a 1915 painting sitting at a loom, wearing a long red dress, and being "Half-Sick of Shadows."  This painting, done in 1888, shows the title character wearing a black girdle, a white dress, long red hair, and an expression of despair on her face as she sits, surrounded by a swamp in her chained boat.  FTP, identify this John William Waterhouse painting of a woman who lived alone on an island near Camelot and was also the title character of an Alfred, Lord Tennyson poem. 
The Lady of Shalott 
8

108119-)
Three of this novel's characters attend a school visually dominated by a portrait of Queen Alexandra of Denmark.  Another character refuses to speak aloud in class due to his Australian accent and spends much of his time in his parents' attic.  Early in the novel, one character brings his friend to a place he calls Elvedon to assuage her jealousy of Jinny. A character known as "the poet" falls in love while watching his friend flick the back of his neck.  That friend is eventually thrown by his horse in India, after which Rhoda finds consolation in an opera house.  In the final section, narrated by the "maker of phrases," it is revealed that Rhoda has killed herself, while at an earlier gathering at Hampton Court Bernard had compared the six-sided flower on the dinner table to Percival, their deceased mutual friend.    Described by its author as a "play-poem," this is, for 10 points, what novel by Virginia Woolf? 
The Waves 
8

108161-)
This author's nonsensical only novel features a discourse on the utility of pockets and is marked by an unknown triangular symbol attributed to the Garamna people.  Sir Ralph the Rover comes upon the bell placed on the title outcropping by the Abbot of Aberbrothok in his "The Inchcape Rock," while Baly and Padalon are among the locales visited by the title character of his "The Curse of Kehama." In another poem, after Peterkin finds a human skull, Old Kaspar tells the story of the title conflagration.  Subjects of his long poems include Robin Hood, Joan of Arc, and a Welsh prince who legendarily discovered America in 1170.  Magicians from Domdaniel are dispatched to kill the titular "destroyer" of another poem, though better-known is a poem that inspired a parodic retort from Lord Byron.  For 10 points name this author of "Thalaba" and A Vision of Judgement, a Lake Poet who also wrote about the Battle of Blenheim.
Robert Southey 
8

108208-)
One character in this work is gossiped about by Miss Atkinson, who compliments his behavior at the Wallises'.  Another character is looked down upon for skipping a meeting with Lady Dalrymple and worries about the machinations of Mrs. Clay.  A visit to Harville at Lyme Regis results in an injury to the protagonist's putative rival, who eventually marries Benwick.  A friend of the protagonist, Mrs. Charles Smith, reveals the true character of her cousin William, who schemes to marry her to secure his inheritance of Kellynch Hall.  The central family resides in Bath while Kellynch is being leased to Admiral and Mrs. Croft, the sister of the protagonist's former love who nearly marries Louisa Musgrove.  A letter from Captain Wentworth eventually secures the hand of Anne Elliot in, for 10 points, what final novel by Jane Austen? 
v
8

108226-)
Act II features the primary villain meeting an Old Lady to purchase some apricots, while Act III ends with a pilgrimage from Ancona to the Shrine of our Lady of Loretto. Turning points in this work concern the misplacement of a horoscope and the inability of the servant girl Cariola to keep a secret.  Act IV features several scenes in a madhouse before the title figure is strangled under the direction of a servant, who has returned after serving seven years in the galleys. The plot is set in motion when a steward named Antonio returns from France and his secret marriage to a widow above his station is discovered by her vicious brothers, Ferdinand and the Cardinal. For ten points, identify this 1623 work that is dominated by the melancholy Bosola, but ostensibly concerns a doomed Italian noblewoman, the best known work of John Webster. 
The Duchess of Malfi 
8

108309-)
This poem compares twelve owls flflying from the hand of one character to Romulus spotting the omen of twelve circlingvultures. Early in this poem, the speaker recounts playing the lute for King John I for Portugal on the same day as the title character'sappearance on a barge, which made the "treble squeak" for fear and the "basses roar." Another section of this poemdetails how, from the ruins of a watch tower, there arose "brothel-houses," home to "scenes of lewd loves, and of pollutedjoys." This poem's addressee is enthroned next to Ascanius during a ceremony in which he holds a bottle of ale in his leftft handinstead of a scepter. The "drugget robe" belonging to this poem's title character is "born upwards by a subterranean wind"after Bruce and Longvil spring a trapdoor to make him disappear. This satire begins by comparing its subject to Augustus,stating "when Fate summons, monarchs must obey," after the opening line "All human things are subject to decay." It latercalls that poet laureate "the last great prophet of tautology." For 10 points, name this iceburn of Thomas Shadwell, a mockepicpoem by John Dryden.
MacFlecknoe
8

108332-)
A historical novel by this author fictionalizes the life of the Rugeley Poisoner. A novel by thisauthor claims that King David unified Israel by marrying twelve tribal heiresses because propertyformerly passed down to youngest daughters rather than eldest sons. That novel of his describes thethree Marys who attended (*) Jesus as "mother, bride, and hairdresser."This author of They Hanged MySaintly Billy and King Jesus wrote another historical novel in which a woman remarries her first husbandSilius and every man who engaged in adultery with Messalina is executed. For 10 points, name this authorof the World War I memoir Goodbye to All That who described the fall of Tiberius and Caligula in I,Claudius.
Robert Graves
8

108438-)
This author inspired a poem in which the narrator tells the addressee that "not silken dress / but toil shall tire thy loveliness" after declaring "And we will all the pleasures prove." Cecil Day-Lewis's poem "Come Live with Me and Be My Love" parodies this author's "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love." This man wrote a play where Valdes and Cornelius appear to the protagonist, who makes a deal with Lucifer. The author of a play where the title character Barabas poisons a nunnery, for 10 points, name this Elizabethan dramatist of Doctor Faustus and The Jew of Malta.
Christopher Marlowe 
4

108458-)
One character in this play draws an analogy to an "unstanched wench," and some of its characters had previously attended Claribel's wedding to the king of Tunis. Some of the nobles' speeches in this play paraphrase Montaigne's "On Cannibals." Stephano and Trinculo give alcohol to a native of this play's setting, who is the son of the witch Sycorax. In this play, one character claims "we are such stuff / as dreams are made on," and celebrates the marriage of Ferdinand to his daughter Miranda. The air spirit Ariel and the native Caliban are servants to Prospero, who conjures up the title storm in, for 10 points, what play by Shakespeare?
The Tempest 
4

108474-)
This author describes "feet upon the moonlit dust / [Pursuing] the ceaseless way" in one poem, while another claims "the verse you make, / it gives a chap the bellyache." This author of "White in the Moon the Long Road Lies" describes a King of Pontus taking small doses of poison in the line "Mithridates, he died old." The speaker claims that "malt does more than Milton can / To justify God's ways to man" in his poem "Terence, This is Stupid Stuff." For 10 points, name this author of "To An Athlete Dying Young" and the collection A Shropshire Lad.
Alfred Edward Housman 
4

108506-)
One of this man's poems asks "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" Another of his poems describes life as "a dome of multi-coloured glass" and the soul of the dedicatee as "like a star" which "beacons from the abode where the Eternal are." This author of "Ode to the West Wind" and an elegy for John Keats, "Adonais," wrote a poem whose speaker begs the title creature to "teach me half the gladness / that thy brain must know." That poems opens "Hail to thee, blithe spirit," while another of his poems describes "two vast and trunkless legs of stone." For 10 points, name this poet of "To a Skylark" and "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley 
4

108512-)
In this novel, the protagonist's wife carries an egg wrapped in a pig's bladder in her bosom. A note reading "Done because we are too menny" is found with the bodies of her child Little Father Time and his half-siblings, whose mother blames their death on her relationship with the protagonist. Soon after, she resolutely remarries Phillotson. The title failed scholar dies in Christminster soon after Sue Brideshead leaves him, much to the indifference of his wife Arabella Donn. For 10 points, name this novel about the title stonemason, by Thomas Hardy.
Jude the Obscure 
4

108520-)
In this work, the housekeeper Miss Horrocks lives out her fantasies of gentility going through wardrobes, and is eventually cut out of a will. One character appears as Clytemnestra and may have poisoned Joseph, and the baronet Pitt proposes marriage to that character even though she is already engaged to his son Rawdon. That character in this novel receives a proposition to elope with a man who dies at the Battle of Waterloo, George Osborne. Including William Dobbin's eventual marriage to Amelia Sedley, for 10 points, name this novel about Becky Sharp by William Thackeray.
Vanity Fair 
4

108545-)
One of this author's poems refers to the "mankind making / bird beast and flower / fathering and all humbling darkness" and describes how "After the first death, there is no other." Another of his poems ends "Time held me green and dying / Though I sang in my chains like the sea," and this author of "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London" and "Fern Hill" declared that "Old age should burn and rave at close of day" in a poem written for his dying father. For 10 points, name this Welsh author of "Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night."
Dylan Thomas 
4

108562-)
This work references the poem "Mutability" when the protagonist ascends Mont Blanc. The title character is described breaking apart a dog sled to make oars to row an ice-raft in a letter written to Margaret Saville. When the protagonist's brother William is accidentally strangled, Justine Moritz is framed and hanged for murder. Opening with letters written by Robert Walton, the title "wretch" runs free after his creation at the University of Ingolstadt and bears the surname of his creator, a scientist named Victor. For 10 points, name this work about "The Modern Prometheus" by Mary Shelley.
Frankenstein: or, The Modern Prometheus 
4

108594-)
One of these speeches comments on "the imminent death of twenty thousand men" and in another of these texts the speaker asks "What's Hecuba to him, or him to Hecuba?" Another of these texts laments the speaker's "too too solid flesh" and says that one person had acted "Like Niobe, all tears," before declaring "Frailty, thy name is woman!" After one of these speeches, the speaker encounters a character whom he commands to get "to a nunnery," Ophelia. For 10 points, name these speeches, the most famous of which begins "to be or not to be, that is the question."
Hamlet's soliloquies [accept equivalents; prompt on "Hamlet" or "works of Shakespeare" and similar things]
4

108612-)
One song in this novel is described as sounding like a combination of "La Cucaracha" and "Oh My Darling, Clementine." After giving a speech in favor of a windmill, a character is chased away by dogs under the orders of his former ally. One character's maxim changes from "I will work harder" to "Napoleon is always right," while Boxer probably becomes glue. In this novel, Snowball and Napoleon lead a revolution guided by the teachings of their fellow pig Old Major. For 10 points, name this novel by George Orwell.
Animal Farm 
4

108654-)
One character in this novel is forced to wear a sign declaring her to be a "slattern" and she first meets the protagonist while reading Rasselas. Helen Burns later dies from consumption due to the negligence of Mr. Brocklehurst, who runs Lowood Institution. The protagonist accepts a post as governess to Adele Varens, but leaves with her dreams of marrying her employer dashed after learning of his mad wife, Bertha Mason. For 10 points, name this novel in which the title character falls in love with Mr. Rochester, written by Charlotte Bronte.
Jane Eyre 
4

108666-)
In one poem, this author explains "No white nor red was ever seen / So am'rous as this lovely green" in the title location. The subject of another poem is likened to "the three-forked lightning" that blasts off the head of Caesar. This author of "An Horation Ode Upon Cromwell's Return to England" and "The Garden" wrote a poem ending with the speaker's lament of "the slow-chapt power" of "Time's wingÃ¨d chariot hurrying near". The author of the lines "Had we but world enough, and time", for 10 points, name this English metaphysical poet of To His Coy Mistress.
Andrew Marvell 
4

108684-)
The speaker of one of his poems throws a stone at the title animal and muses "how paltry, how vulgar, what a mean act!" This author of "Snake" wrote about Gerald Crich trying to strangle Gudrun Brangwen and abandoning Rupert Birkin and Ursula in one novel, while he wrote about Gertrude Coppard's son Paul Morel in another. The author of Women in Love and Sons and Lovers, he also wrote a novel that sees the title character have an affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this author of Lady Chatterley's Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence 
4

108720-)
In this play, a picture of cricket players on the wall prompts one character to lament about his life. An envelope is revealed to contain twelve matches which fail to light against a flattened matchbox, but which do light against one character's shoe. The central characters argue over a Birmingham soccer match and argue over the semantics of lighting the kettle. It ends with a whistle from the speaking tube, causing Ben to point a gun at Gus. For 10 points, name this play whose title device relays orders to the two hitmen, written by Harold Pinter.
The Dumb Waiter 
4

108740-)
In an incident in this novel the protagonist befriends a woman after mistakenly assuming she had not yet taken off her shoes. Nancy Derek has an affair with the superintendent of police McBryde, while Harry Turton is the tax collector for a town whose Chief Civil Surgeon, Major Callendar, is the protagonist's boss. Set in Chandrapore, a central event in this novel allegedly occurs at the Marabar caves where Mrs Moore and Ronny Heaslop's wife travel. Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of rape in, for 10 points, what E.M. Forster novel?
A Passage To India 
4

108783-)
A character in this novel has a dream about kissing his lover, who then withers and turns into the maggot-infested corpse of his mother Caroline. That character, a student of Professors Krempe and Waldman, grows despondent after his brother William is strangled and his best friend Henry Clerval is killed on the Orkney Islands. Another character in this novel teaches himself by watching the De Laceys and is found aboard Robert Walton's ship mourning over Victor's body. For 10 points, name this 1823 novel by Mary Shelley about a scientist and his creation, an eight-foot-tall "wretch" with black lips and hair.
Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus 
4

108786-)
In one scene, this character taunts another by citing the proverb "the poor cat i' th' adage." She says she would kill a character if the character did not look like her father. In another scene, she tells her husband that she would kill her own baby while it was "smiling in my face / Have plucked my nipple from his boneless gum / And dashed the brains out." She calls on evil spirits to "unsex me here", and in a later scene, she enters sleepwalking and cries, "Out, damn'd spot! Out, I say!". For 10 points, name this woman who convinces her husband to kill Duncan to become king, a character from Shakespeare's Scottish play.
Lady Macbeth [do not accept "Macbeth"] 
4

108846-)
Tennyson asks this concept, "How can thou let me waste my youth in sighs?" in a poem titled "O [this], Passing [this]!". The poet of "The Destruction of Sennacherib" describes "the night / of cloudless climes and starry skies" with this word, which is also attributed to a woman who has "a mind at peace with all below, / a heart whose love was innocent!". That Lord Byron poem is titled "She Walks In [this]". This quality is the subject of a statement which "is all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know" in a poem describing a Grecian urn. For 10 points, name this attribute equated with truth by John Keats.
beauty
4

108855-)
One of this writer's plays ends with Sam collapsed on the floor and Ruth resolving to stay behind in London, leaving Teddy to return to America. In another play, he traced the evolution of Emma and Jerry's affair in reverse chronology. This playwright of The Homecoming and Betrayal wrote a play that includes an argument over the semantics of lighting a kettle and ends with Ben holding Gus at gunpoint. In another of his plays, McCann and Goldberg take Stanley Webber away from the title celebration. For 10 points, name this "comedy of menace" dramatist of The Dumb Waiter and The Birthday Party.
Harold Pinter 
4

108873-)
In this work, one character tells an injured boy to suck on his wound "like Berengaria"; earlier, that character told the protagonist that "You'll get back all right". Another character in this novel makes Percival Wemys Madison cry by kicking over the littlun's sandcastles. That character, Roger, later tortures Samneric and releases a boulder which kills an overweight, bespectacled boy while working as a hunter for Jack Merridew's tribe. For 10 points, name this book in which a group of British schoolboys, including Piggy and Ralph, descend into savagery after they are stranded on an island, the magnum opus of William Golding.
Lord of the Flies 
4

108899-)
One character in this play confides in her father's servant Lancelot and runs off with her mother's turquoise ring to marry Lorenzo. Another character is able to marry the character he is courting after he chooses a casket made of lead. The clerk Stephano and the lawyer Balthazar in this play are really two women in disguise: Nerissa and Bassanio's wife Portia. At the end of this play, a character forfeits his property and fails to collect a contract without spilling blood. For 10 points, name this William Shakespeare play in which Antonio is sued for "a pound of flesh" by the Jewish moneylender Shylock.
The Merchant of Venice 
4

108921-)
In one part of this work, the author warns its readers of an impending event, "I now must change / Those Notes to tragic". A character in this work becomes fascinated by a reflection in a pond, not realizing that it is her own. The antagonist claims that angels are "self-begot, self-raised", and another character in this work receives a vision of the Great Flood from Michael. Moloch, Belial, and others offer different viewpoints during a debate in Pandemonium in Book II of this work. The antagonist declares, "Better to reign in Hell, then serve in Heav'n" in, for 10 points, this epic poem about Adam and Eve's fall from the Garden of Eden, written by John Milton.
Paradise Lost 
4

108934-)
A work by this poet features the Wanderer, the Solitary, and the Pastor. In another poem, the title character loses his land and is forced to send his son Luke away. This poet of "The Excursion" and "Michael" described "the Child among his new-born blisses" among many "recollections of early childhood" in "Ode: Intimations of Immortality". "Strange fits of passion have I known" open one of his Lucy poems. This poet who portrayed the "growth of a poet's mind" in "The Prelude" wrote "five years have passed" in a poem addressed to his sister Dorothy. For 10 points, name this Romantic co-author of Lyrical Ballads, which includes his "Tintern Abbey".
William Wordsworth 
4

108987-)
This work's protagonist is saved from drowning in a deep river by his companion, who finds it shallow. This allows them to meet two shining men, who welcome them through the Wicket Gate. This work's narrative is framed as a series of the author's dreams, including one where the protagonist is asked "Whence came you, and whither are you bound?" by Apollyon in the Valley of Humiliation. Vanity Fair is one of many locations passed through by the title everyman. For 10 points, name this work detailing Christian's journey to the Celestial City from the City of Destruction, a religious allegory by John Bunyan.
The Pilgrim's Progress From This World to That Which Is to Come 
4

109027-)
In this writer's poetic works, Urthona, who is represented by Los in the fallen world, is created by the division of Albion along with three other Zoas. In one of his poems, "a Virgin of twelve years" named Ololon asks for the author of Paradise Lost. The speaker of another of his poems hears "mind-forg'd manacles" while wandering through "charter'd streets". Milton and "London" are by this poet, who asked a creature, "Dost thou know who made thee", and addressed an animal with "fearful symmetry" "burning bright / in the forests of the night". For 10 points, name this poet whose Songs of Innocence and Experience contains "The Lamb" and "The Tyger".
William Blake 
4

109036-)
In one scene of this novel, the protagonist declares, "We do not suffer by accident". In this novel, Charlotte Lucas marries the clergyman Mr. Collins, who is advised to marry quickly by Lady Catherine. One character pays the sum that Wickham requested in exchange for marrying Lydia; that character lives at Pemberley and meets the protagonist at Bingley's ball. This novel opens with the ironic aphorism that "a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife". For 10 points, name this novel that centers on Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy, written by Jane Austen.
Pride and Prejudice 
4

109043-)
A dog dies after biting an ostensibly good man in this writer's "An Elegy on the Death of a Mad Dog". He wrote a controversial scene in which Mr. Honeywood introduces the bailiffs as his friends to Miss Richmond. This writer lamented the downfall of "Sweet Auburn! loveliest village of the plain". In a play by this writer of The Good-Natur'd Man and "The Deserted Village", Tony Lumpkin pretends that the Hardcastle's home is an inn. This creator of Kate Hardcastle and Charles Marlow wrote about Olivia's seduction by Squire Thornhill, the landlord of the Primrose family. For 10 points, name this author of She Stoops to Conquer and The Vicar of Wakefield.
Oliver Goldsmith 
4

109068-)
This author used an oak tree as a metaphor for the constancy of a 300-year-old character who spontaneously changes sex. Vita Sackville-West was the basis for that fictional biography of Orlando. Judith Shakespeare commits suicide in a work by this author that describes the androgynous mind, A Room of One's Own. In a novel by this author, the trauma psychologist William Bradshaw links a character who once kissed Sally Seton with Septimus Smith, whose suicide is mentioned at a party. Another of her novels notes in parentheses the deaths of Prue and Mrs. Ramsey away from the title structure. For 10 points, name this modernist author of Mrs Dalloway and To the Lighthouse.
Virginia Woolf 
4

109135-)
This writer proposed six rules to improve the accuracy and clarity of one's language in "Politics and the English Language". A man is killed by an animal in must and the narrator commits the title action to avoid looking like a fool in his "Shooting an Elephant". In The Road to Wigan Pier, he described the life of the industrial working class and their attitudes toward socialism. "Unperson" and "doubleplusungood" are words in a fictional language created by this writer. In that novel by this writer, "Do it to Julia!" marks the protagonist's breaking point in Room 101 after torture by O'Brien. For 10 points, name this author who created Newspeak and Big Brother in 1984. 
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair] 
4

109141-)
This play's prologue contains the declaration "I count religion but a childish toy / and hold there is not sin but ignorance", spoken by Machiavel. The title character uses his daughter, whose "sinful soul hath paced too long the fatal labyrinth of misbelief," to turn Lodowick and Mathias against each other. This play's title character conspires with his Turkish slave Ithamore to poison nuns, including his own daughter Abigail, and assists the Turkish invasion of an island before ultimately falling into his own boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name this play whose title character is the scheming Barabas, written by Christopher Marlowe.
The Jew of Malta 
4

109191-)
This character hopes one action "might be the be-all and the end-all" but later claims that his hand will turn "the multitudinous seas incarnadine". At the end of Act I, he is told to "screw your courage to the sticking-place", while in a later speech, he proclaims "all our yesterdays have lighted fools the way to dusty death". In Act IV, he enters after the line "something (*) wicked this way comes". News of his wife's suicide prompts this character to call life "a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing." He is horrified to see Birnam Wood appear to come to Dunsinane, after which he defeats Siward but is killed by Macduff. For 10 points, name this murderous Thane of Glamis who becomes the king of Scotland in a Shakespeare play.
Macbeth
5

109211-)
A clumsy character in this text sings an original song, distinguishing between the song, its name, and what it is called, but the song turns out to be a familiar one. Another character claims he can explain all poems ever invented and emerges from the sheep-queen's egg. In this novel, framed as a possible dream of the protagonist, Humpty Dumpty explains phrases like "'Twas brillig" and "slithy toves". Including "The Walrus and Carpenter" and "Jabberwocky", this novel features a house where everything is reversed and a massive chess game played by the Red Queen. For 10 points, name this Lewis Carroll sequel to Alice in Wonderland where Alice steps into a mirror.
Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There 
4

109271-)
This poet's soul is "like a star" that "beacons from above where the Eternal are" in an elegy that commands the reader to "weep" for him, Percy Bysshe Shelley's "Adonais." In one of his poems, the intoxicated speaker cries "Forlorn!" and wonders "Do I wake or sleep?" after listening to the addressee, who "wast not born for Death". Another of this poet's poems imagines the scene depicted by a "foster-child of Silence and slow Time", "sylvan historian", and "still unravished bride of quietness". For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of "Ode to a Nightingale" and "Ode on a Grecian Urn", in which he wrote "Beauty is truth / and truth beauty".
John Keats 
4

109277-)
In this novel, a gate outside of a cottage reads "HOME", which the protagonist calls "a gloomy sort of name". This novel repeatedly asks, "What's it going to be then, eh?", and opens with Dim, Pete, George, and the protagonist drinking milk-plus at the Korova Milk Bar. The protagonist beats F. Alexander, who is writing a manuscript with this novel's title. "Lovely Ludwig Van" is played during the Ludovico Technique, behavioral conditioning undertaken by the protagonist to assimilate into society. This novel's fictional language Nadsat contains words like "droog". For 10 points, name this 1962 dystopian novel narrated by the teenage Alex, written by Anthony Burgess.
A Clockwork Orange 
4

109297-)
This poem uses the Petrarchan sonnet form in a nontraditional ababa cdcdc efef rhyme scheme. A figure in this poem who "stamped on these lifeless thingsÂ… passions read" is referenced as "the hand that mocked them and the hand that fed". Its final lines depicts its subject "boundless and bare" as "lone and level sands stretch far away". This poem is framed as the story of "a traveler from an antique land" who describes a "half sunk" and "shattered visage" near "two vast and trunkless legs of stone". For 10 points, name this Percy Bysshe Shelley poem about the "colossal wreck" of a "king of kings" who ironically commands, "look on my Works, ye Mighty, and despair!".
"Ozymandias" 
4

109334-)
A character in this book takes the stage name Mr. Waldengarver as an actor. Its protagonist is beaten with a cane called "The Tickler" by his sister. This novel includes a character who dies after mistreating a horse, Bentley Drummle. The main character of this novel recieves a massive fortune from the ex-convict Magwitch. In this novel, a dilapidated mansion that contains frozen clocks is owned by an old woman who still wears her decaying wedding dress. To avenge that woman's abandonment at the altar, Estella is groomed by Miss Havisham in this novel to become a cold heart-breaker. For 10 points, name this novel by Charles Dickens about Pip's rise to high society.
Great Expectations 
4

109355-)
This character is described as having "fine eyes" which are "brightened" after she walks in the rain to visit her sick sister. After that work, she is looked on with contempt by the family she visits because of her muddied skirts. This character rejects a marriage proposal from a clergyman who later marries her best friend, Charlotte Lucas. Her sister Lydia elopes with an army officer, Mr. Wickham, whom this character was previously attracted to. She is courted by a wealthy and initially haughty resident of Pemberley, whom she "properly humbles". For 10 points, name this character who eventually marries Mr. Darcy, the protagonist of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.
Elizabeth Bennet [prompt on Bennet] 
4

109380-)
One section of this work alludes to widespread death by listing "no trembling harp, no tuned timber, no tumbling hawk" and "no swift horse". A passage about Finn and his sons is another of this work's "four funerals", which also include the Lay of the Last Survivor. It is found in Cotton Vitellius A.xv, also known as the Nowell Codex. Its protagonist is twice failed by swords, and is prompted by the death of (*) Aeschere to dive into a reptile-infested lake in search of a descendant of Cain. That protagonist is mortally wounded while fighting a dragon with Wiglaf. Shortly after it begins, its title character arrives at the mead hall of Heorot to assist the Danish king Hrothgar. For 10 points, name this Old English epic about a Geatish hero who kills Grendel.
Beowulf
5

109398-)
The protagonist of one of this author's novels goes to Central America to paint ruins after his love interest marries Sir Percival. Another of his novels features a dreamy-eyed opium addict with two-toned hair named Ezra Jennings, as well as Drusilla Clack, who idolizes the religious huckster Godfrey Ablewhite. Walter Hartright defeats the evil Count Fosco in one of his novels, in which Marian (*) Halcombe investigates the similarity between Anne Catherick and Laura Fairlie. Robinson Crusoe devotee Gabriel Betteredge narrates most of this man's most famous novel, in which Sergeant Cuff and Franklin Blake, who marries Rachel Verinder, solve the mystery surrounding a stolen diamond. For 10 points, name this author of The Woman in White and The Moonstone.
Wilkie Collins [or William Wilkie Collins]
5

109414-)
One of this author's protagonists gets into a car accident on his way to a squash match and is later held hostage by the man he hit, Baxter, who is disarmed and subdued after Daisy recites "Dover Beach". Another of his novels begins with the funeral of Molly Lane and ends with two of her rival lovers, Clive Linley and Vernon Halliday, carrying out a euthanasia pact. This author, who wrote about the neurologist Henry Perowne in (*) Saturday, penned a novel which ends with the narrator revealing that while Paul Marshall did marry Lola, Robbie Turner and Cecilia were never reunited. For 10 points, name this contemporary British author of Amsterdam, who wrote about Briony Tallis in Atonement.
Ian Russell McEwan
5

109444-)
This poet wonders "what made fatuous sunbeams toil / To break earth's sleep at all?" in a work beginning "Move him into the sun." The speaker of another of his poems asks, "What candles may be held to speed them all?" before asserting that the "holy glimmers of goodbyes" will shine "not in the hands of boys but in their eyes." This poet of "Futility" described the "shrill, demented choirs of wailing (*) shells" in a sonnet that asks "What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?" In another poem, he wrote of an "ecstasy of fumbling" prompted by a gas attack which left a man "guttering, choking, drowning." For 10 points, name this poet of "Anthem for Doomed Youth" who decried "the old Lie" in "Dulce et Decorum Est" and died in World War I.
Wilfred Edward Salter Owen
5

109455-)
This thinker labelled W.H. Auden a "pansy" over a line about the "acceptance of guilt in the necessary murder." He opened by noting "highly civilized human beings are flying overhead, trying to kill me" before calling for an English revolution in "The Lion and the Unicorn." This man tried to explain why socialism is not more popular in his study of the working poor in Northern England, The (*) Road to Wigan Pier, and attacked the use of overly complex diction in "Politics and the English Language." He criticized Stalinism in Homage to Catalonia, which relates his volunteer service in the Spanish Civil War, and used a Burmese market as the setting for his anti-Imperalist essay "Shooting an Elephant." For 10 points, name this author who also attacked totalitarianism through his novel about Winston Smith, 1984.
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]
5

109461-)
One of this author's characters uses a disguise called "The Complete Man" and invents a pair of pneumatically cushioned pants. In another of his novels, Jeremy Pordage is hired to catalogue the "Hauberk Papers" by the millionaire and immortality-seeker Jo Stoyte. Another of his characters was born in the Malpais community when his mother misused her (*) "Malthusian Drill" after being impregnated by Thomas Thomakin. This author of Antic Hay and After Many a Summer chronicled a mescaline trip in The Doors of Perception. He described the Bokanovsky Process in a novel that features characters like Bernard Marx and Mustapha Mond. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about John the Savage in his dystopian novel Brave New World.
Aldous Leonard Huxley
5

109486-)
The character giving this speech ironically claims to have "neither wit, nor words, nor worth" to "stir men's blood". Its speaker describes thrice presenting its subject with "a kingly crown, which he did thrice refuse." Its speaker, who claims to be a "plain blunt man", incites its audience by showing them a tattered cloak, calling one tear "the most (*) unkindest cut of all". This speech thrice calls out a rival who claims its subject "was ambitious" and mocks that rival as "an honorable man." Its speaker asks the gods to judge how dearly its subject loved Brutus and notes that he came to bury, not praise, its subject. For 10 points, name this speech beginning "Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears," which is given after Caesar's assassination.
Mark Antony's funeral oration [or Mark Antony's speech at Julius Caesar's funeral; accept " Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears" speech before it is mentioned; prompt on "Antony's speech" in Julius Caesar; prompt on the "funeral oration for Julius Caesar"; accept any synonyms of speech like "oration" or "address"; do not accept answers involving the word "soliloquy"]
5

109564-)
This event is represented by Abram sacrificing his son in "The Parable of the Old Man and the Young." In a poem about this event, a boy who is tired of the "crumps and lice and lack of rum" commits suicide. That poem is by Siegfried Sassoon. In an unevenly structured poem describing this event, the speaker invokes blood as "obscene as cancer" and repeats the word "drowning". That speaker cries that the reader would not tell to "children ardent for some desperate glory" the title "old lie" about this event, "Dulce et Decorum est". For 10 points, name this period during which Wilfred Owen's "Anthem for a Doomed Youth" lamented "What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?". 
World War I [prompt on war] 
4

109576-)
Frank and Helen were the first rulers of this region, which is linked to other worlds such as Charn through a series of puddles in the Wood between the Worlds. This region is home to a sacrificial stone table that becomes cracked due to reversal of the Deep Magic and the Lamp-post, near which the faun Mr. Tumnus lives. Caspian X sails the eastern seas in the Dawn Treader in this realm, which plunged into an endless winter by Jadis the White Witch. For 10 points, name this fictional country created by Aslan that can be accessed through a wardrobe, created by C.S. Lewis.
Narnia [do not accept "The Chronicles of Narnia" or individual book names] 
4

109602-)
One character in this novel knits a green purse for a man she hopes to get engaged to, but that man breaks it off when he gets drunk off of a bowl of punch in Vauxhall. Another character is encouraged to marry the half-black heiress, Miss Swartz. One character in this novel gets herself out of debt by selling her horses during the Battle of Waterloo, having previously been cut off for marrying the son of Sir Pitt, Rawdon Crawley. William Dobbin does not disillusion one protagonist about the extreme shortcomings of her husband, George Osborne . That character is Amelia Sedley. For 10 points, Becky Sharp features in what "novel without a hero" by William Thackeray?
Vanity Fair
4

109623-)
One rumor about a character in this work is that he accidentally had alcohol mixed with his blood-surrogate, explaining his strangeness. In its opening where a group of students are shown the Bokanovsky process for creating Deltas and Epsilons at the London Hatchery and Conditioning Center. In addition to the aforementioned Bernard Marx, other characters include Lenina Crowne, Helmholtz Watson, and John the Savage. Describing the World State, whose inhabitants regularly take the hallucinogen soma, this is, for 10 points, what dystopian novel that takes its name from a line in The Tempest, written by Aldous Huxley?
Brave New World
4

109642-)
The title location of one of this author's novels belonged to the son of Betty Flanders who was killed in World War I. The title character of another of this author's works is a former lover of Elizabeth I who wakes up one day transformed into a woman. In another novel by this author of Jacob's Room and Orlando, Augustus Carmichael and Lily Briscoe are among the guests staying with the Ramsays at their house in the Hebrides. In her most famous work, Rezia's husband Septimus Smith commits suicide on the same day as the title politician's wife throws a party. For 10 points, name this British author of To the Lighthouse and Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf
4

109647-)
It's not The Cat in the Hat, but this work has some characters named One, Two, and Three, with the Third being especially bloodthirsty. One character in this work has a job with Tellson's bank, and another character looks for mourners while armed with a pistol. That last character has a "shadow" known as "The Vengeance." One particularly important plot point involves two men looking almost identical; those men are Sydney Carton and Charles Darnay. Set during the French Revolution, this is, for 10 points, what Charles Dickens work which begins "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times"?
A Tale of Two Cities
4

109670-)
The protagonist of this novel recalls seeing a map in a shop window that revives his childhood fantasies about the "blank spaces" on the map. After receiving his contract from the city that reminds him of a "whited sepulchre," the narrator travels to the Central Station. One character creates a painting of a blindfolded woman holding a torch, and he scribbles "Exterminate all the brutes!" in a pamphlet. After waiting months for a steamship to be repaired, a Russian trader leads the protagonist to a character whose fiancÃ©e is referred to only as his "Intended." For 10 points, "the horror, the horror!" are the last words of the ivory trader Kurtz in what novel about Marlow by Joseph Conrad?
Heart of Darkness
4

109682-)
In one scene in this play, a jester and a butler give alcohol to one of the main characters for the first time, and the three characters jointly agree to rebel against the tyrannical rule of the protagonist. While the protagonist easily foils this rebellion, the plot thickens when the son of the treacherous King of Naples, Ferdinand, falls in love with the protagonist's daughter, Miranda. For 10 points, name this play where the magician Prospero attempts to restore himself to his rightful position as Duke of Milan after conjuring up the title storm, a William Shakespeare romance.
The Tempest
4

109705-)
At the end of this poem, the protagonist encounters a Hermit, a Pilot, and the Pilot's boy, who laughs crazily and thinks he is the devil. In this poem, Death plays dice with Life-in-Death for the souls of certain characters. The poem opens with the Wedding Guest unwillingly listening to the tale of the title character. And the lines "Water, water everywhere / Nor any drop to drink" describes the stranding of a ship, which occurs after the title character shoots a certain animal with his crossbow. For 10 points, this is what poem in which the title sailor reaps the consequences of killing an albatross, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge?
"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
4

109724-)
This author wrote a satirical pamphlet from the point of view of a Church of England official, asking for complete suppression of Non-Conformists in The Shortest Way with the Dissenters. The title character of one of his novels accidentally marries her own half-brother in Virginia, after being released from Newgate Prison for being pregnant. The protagonist of another of his novels founds a plantation in Brazil, after escaping from a Moor who enslaved him. That character, based on Alexander Selkirk, is shipwrecked in a later journey, which sees him rescue a native from cannibals, whom he dubs Friday. For 10 points, name this author of Moll Flanders and Robinson Crusoe.
Daniel Defoe
4

109748-)
He wrote of "guns that disturbed the hour", heard as far as Stourton Tower and "starlit Stonehenge" in a poem about the outbreak of World War I. "Immanent Will" causes an "intimate welding" that "jars two hemispheres" in another poem by him about the sinking of the Titanic. Novels by this author of "Channel Firing" and "The Convergence of the Twain" include one about Clym Yeobright's homecoming to Egdon Heath and one in which the title character has an illegitimate child named "Little Father Time" with Sue Bridehead. For 10 points, name this author of The Return of the Native, Jude the Obscure, and Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
4

109772-)
In one novel by this author, Henry Morton aids the Covenanters, whose tombs are engraved by the title character. In another, Jeanie travels to London to try to clear the name of her sister, Effie Deans. Those novels are both entries in his series, Tales of My Landlord - Old Mortality and The Heart of Midlothian. The title character of another of his novels is a highwayman with real name MacGregor Campbell, while the title character of yet another fights with Bois-Guilbert on behalf of Rebecca and wins the hand of Lady Rowena. For 10 points, name this author of Rob Roy and Ivanhoe.
Walter Scott
4

109793-)
One character in this work throws a book at the protagonist, who is unjustly punished by being locked in the red room. The protagonist later receives an overly harsh punishment from the hypocritical Mr. Brocklehurst in another scene in this work. One character uses a game of charades to make the protagonist envious of Blanche Ingram. And at the end of the second book of this novel, it is revealed that Grace Poole is caretaker of the main male character's first wife, Bertha Mason. For 10 points, name this Romantic bildungsroman about the titular governess who falls in love with Edward Rochester, a work by Charlotte BrontÃ«.
Jane Eyre
4

109807-)
In one of his short stories, a Nottinghamshire coal-miner's wife waits for her alcoholic husband to return only to discover that he has died in a pit accident  In another one of his stories, Paul and his Uncle Oscar win eighty thousand pounds after Paul discovers the ability to predict the winners of races by riding the title toy. Besides The Odour of Chrysanthemums and The Rocking-Horse Winner, he is more famous for a novel in which Paul Morel euthanizes Gertrude, and one about Constance's affair with Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, this is what English novelist of Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley's Lover?
D.H. Lawrence
4

109835-)
In one line from this poem, the speaker describes the illusion of a world that appears "so various, so beautiful, so new". Earlier he had described how an entity that used to be "full" and "like the folds of a bright girdle furl'd" has receded to the "naked shingles of the world". The speaker instructs the listener to "hear the grating roar / of pebbles, which the waves draw back and fling", and notes that the "turbid ebb and flow / of human misery" is something that "Sophocles long ago / heard" on the Aegean. Beginning with the line "The sea is calm tonight", this is, for 10 points, what poem delivered by a man to his lover on the titular shore, by Matthew Arnold?
"Dover Beach"
4

110340-)
This poem describes stars that "threw down their spears, and watered heaven with their tears." In this poem, when the title creature's heart began to beat, the speaker asked "what dread hand and what dread feet?" The speaker also asks if the maker of the lamb also made the title predator. Name this poem about an animal "burning bright in the forests of the night" that is in the collection Songs of Experience by William Blake.
The Tyger
3

110369-)
This poem describes the drowning of the "ceremony of innocence" by the "blood-dimmed tide." The speaker imagines seeing "A shape with lion body and the head of a man;" the "vast image out of Spiritus Mundi [SPIH-rih-toos MOON-dee]" troubled the narrator's sight. As "the falcon cannot hear the falconer" in this poem, "things fall apart, the center cannot hold." Name this poem by William Butler Yeats concerning the return of a beast.
The Second Coming
3

110377-)
This man was described as an artist's "ideal of youth," and that artist dissuaded an elderly caller from pursuing this man. As a sign of reform, he chose to spare Hetty Merton. A sailor pursuing this man known as "Prince Charming" was warned at an opium den about his appearance; that sailor was James Vane, the brother of Sibyl [SIH-bul]. Name this owner of a magical painting that aged in lieu of its owner, created by Oscar Wilde.
Dorian Gray (accept either, prompt on "Prince Charming")
3

110400-)
This character was almost fired after calling his boss "subject to hallucinations and generally potty" in front of Mortimer. Along with Bates, this man was the victor in the Great Sermon Handicap. Among the plans executed by this man are ruining the engagement of Honoria Glossop, as well as removing Claude and Eustace from the immediate family. Employed by Bertie Wooster, name this man created by P. G. Wodehouse, the consummate butler.
Jeeves
3

110409-)
In this novel, an Officer of the Guards caught his cheating wife with the Lord of the Powder Closet. The chief exponent of the title concept was a charity pupil at Miss Pinkerton's School. John Osborne cut off his son's inheritance over his choice of wife, but that son dies at the Battle of Waterloo. Focusing on the contrasting Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp, name this "Novel Without a Hero" written by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair: A Novel Without a Hero
3

110428-)
This play pulls material from Plautus' [PLAH-tus-es] Menaechmi [meh-NIEK-mee] and John Gower's Apollonius [a-po-LOE-nee-us] of Tyre [tire]. The protagonists of this play were born at Epidamnum [eh-pih-DAM-num], and were raised separately by Aemilia and Aegeon [AE-jee-on] following a storm. The centerpiece of this play's plot was Solinus' extension regarding a thousand-mark fine or execution. Solinus, the Duke of Ephesus [eh-FEE-sus], was talking about a merchant from Syracuse. Name this Shakespeare comedy about the mass confusion resulting from two sets of long-lost twins.
The Comedy of Errors
3

110458-)
In one novel, this author wrote of an astrologer who predicted hazards befalling a newborn on his fifth, tenth, and twenty-first birthdays, with the first being his kidnapping while riding with a revenue officer. He also wrote of an outlaw whose son later ran a sword through him; that son was kidnapped by Meg Murdockson. This author of Guy Mannering and The Heart of Midlothian wrote about the son of Cedric the Saxon and his disinherited son. Name this Scottish author of Ivanhoe.
Sir Walter Scott
3

110462-)
This character sought to purchase the Carfax estate near London, and he later took control of Bersicker. Arriving in England near Whitby on the Demeter [deh-MEE-ter], he later fled via the Czarina Catherine, which he forced up the Danube. When a guest asked to leave, he opened the door to a pack of wolves waiting outside. Name this creation of Bram Stoker who was a vampire.
Count Dracula
3

110471-)
The speaker in this poem found a singer of godly hymns made in the wood who could wash away blood. A woman with red lips, golden locks, and skin as white as leprosy won the title character in a game of dice against Death. Afterwards, the speaker saw two hundred companions drop one by one. In this poem, he tells his story to the Wedding-Guest. The turning point in this poem was the shooting of an albatross. Name this poem about a sailor written by Samuel Coleridge.
Rime of the Ancient Mariner
3

110481-)
In one work of criticism, this writer used the backdrop of a naval battle between the English and Dutch for a discussion of literature. He utilized Neander as a mouthpiece for his own opinions in Of Dramatic Poesy. He wrote of a monarch who chose a man "mature in dullness from his tender years" and "stands comfirm'd in full stupidity." In one satire, this writer compared King Charles II to David, and the Duke of Monmouth and the Earl of Shaftesbury to the title characters. His longest poem, describing his conversion to Catholicism, is The Hind and the Panther. Name the author of "MacFlecknoe" and Absalom and Achitophel.
John Dryden
3

110489-)
A number of Cavalier poets, including Robert Herrick and Richard Lovelace, were members of this writer's "tribe." In one work, he wrote of a five-thousand-pound wager concerning a trip to Constantinople. In that play, Brisk is undone when Macilente [mak-ih-lent] poisons a dog. This author of Every Man Out of His Humour also wrote a play in which Subtle poses as an astrologer and the title character. Name this author of Volpone and The Alchemist.
Ben Jonson
3

110589-)
In this novel, one character skins a lion with Xury and then sells the boy into ten years of indentured servitude. In a later scene, barley loaves are made from grain ground with an iron-wood pestle, and grapes are dried to make raisins. The narrator of this novel tames a parrot named Poll and discovers a penguin colony. Using an animal skin with the pelt facing upward, one character in this novel crafts an umbrella, and his hut-staves sprout leaves after a year. That title character rescues a native from cannibals, teaches him about Christianity, and names him Friday. For 10 points, name this narrative about a castaway on a desert island, by Daniel Defoe.
Robinson Crusoe 
4

110592-)
This man asked an addressee to "Pour new seas in mine eyes" to drown "both parts" himself in "I am a little world made cunningly." He also asked a revered being to "break, blow, burn and make me new." He chided a concept which is "slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men" and not "mighty and dreadful," and wrote of a creature which "sucked me first, and now sucks thee" in "The Flea." This author of "Batter my heart, three-personed God" and "Death, be not proud" wrote in his Meditations that "No man is an island." For 10 points, name this 17th-century British poet of the Holy Sonnets.
John Donne 
4

110648-)
This character's great-great-great-granduncle invented golf at the Battle of Green Fields by decapitating an enemy. His Sackville relative Lobelia steals his silver spoons before he returns during an auction, and he donates a mithril mail shirt to a local museum. Besides hiding a fabulous white gem in his pillow, this character shelters with a bear-man and turns some trolls to stone. Accompanied by a wizard who battles the Necromancer, this character journeys to the Lonely Mountain and wins an item that turns him invisible in a riddle game with Gollum. For 10 points, name this hobbit who helps defeat the dragon Smaug and gives the One Ring to his "nephew," Frodo.
Bilbo Baggins [or Bilbo; prompt on "Baggins;" prompt on "the Hobbit"]  
4

110653-)
One of these characters harangued a sailor in Aleppo after the sailor's wife was stingy about handing out the chestnuts in her lap; that one had previously fled the stage to rejoin Grimalkin. Thomas Middleton added many lines for this set of characters, who work to present "a Child crowned, with a tree in his hand" after mentioning a "liver of blaspheming Jew." When "the hurly-burly's done," these characters meet near Forres upon a heath. These oddly-bearded characters serve Hecate, and promise future kingship to the descendants of Banquo. For 10 points, name these supernatural women who chant "Double, double, toil and trouble" in Shakespeare's Macbeth.
the three witches from Macbeth [or the Weird Sisters] 
4

110668-)
In this novel, a foreign nation follows a code translated as "Obliteration of the Self" or "Death-Worship." The Parsons children annoy this novel's protagonist, who sees a picture of St. Clement's church at Mr. Charrington's and has a bad varicose vein. In this novel, many people learn to replace the words "very bad" with "doubleplus ungood." The red sash of the Youth Anti-Sex League is torn off by Julia in this novel. Its ending features caged rats used by O'Brien to torture Winston Smith, a former employee of Minitru. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel in which the Thought Police uphold the will of Big Brother, by George Orwell.
Nineteen Eighty-Four 
4

110697-)
The narrator of this poem calls to a spirit which made the vast abyss "pregnant" where it "dove-like, sat'st brooding." A mountain-hurling stalemate between two armies in this work is broken by the discovery of gunpowder. A strategy of waiting is advocated by the lazy Belial in this work during a council at the ornate palace of Pandaemonium. This poem includes a long retelling of creation by Raphael, and focuses on a character who finds it "better to reign in hell than serve in heaven" after revolting against God. For 10 points, name this epic poem featuring Satan's temptation of Adam and Eve, by John Milton.
Paradise Lost 
4

110708-)
This person realizes that a salt was effective because it was impure, and he slams his window closed during a conversation with two friends. A cane gifted to this man is broken during a crime, and Richard Enfield notes that this man's signature appears on a 90 pound check given to the family of a trampled girl. That payment was owed by another man who engenders a sense of "unexpressed deformity." This character asks his lawyer, Mr. Utterson, to secure the rights of his heir, even though that heir murdered Sir Danvers Carew. For 10 points, name this physician created by Robert Louis Stevenson, who uses a potion to turn into his vicious alter-ego Mr. Hyde.
Dr. Henry Jekyll [or Harry Jekyll; do NOT accept "Mr. Edward Hyde" at any point] 
4

110719-)
One of this author's characters asks "What's happened to the...unashamed expression of affection of the day before yesterday?" and more direct questions like "Why do you pick your nose?" and "Why did the chicken cross the road?" Goldberg and McCann take this author's character Stanley Webber away from Peter and Meg Boles' boarding house after a title celebration. In another of his plays, two people who argue about "[lighting]" and "[putting] on" the kettle, Ben and Gus, are hitmen who follow instructions lowered by the title device. For 10 points, name this Nobel-winning English playwright of The Birthday Party and The Dumbwaiter.
Harold Pinter [or David Baron] 
4

110740-)
One woman with this first name has a steel purse and seizes control of Clara Copperfield's household with her brother, Mr. Murdstone. Other characters with this first name include one who falls ill after her mother refuses to send a coach to Netherfield Park and one whose friend dies of typhus at Lowood. A character with this name is courted by Mr. Bingley against the advice of his friend, Darcy. Another character with this name sees her wedding veil ripped in two by Bertha Mason, a mad woman in the Rochester attic. For 10 points, give this first name of the eldest Bennet sister in Pride and Prejudice and a governess in a Charlotte Bronte novel surnamed Eyre.
Jane [accept Jane Murdstone, Jane Bennet, or Jane Eyre]
4

110760-)
This author wrote about a figure "too late for antique vows, / Too, too late for the fond believing lyre," in a work in which the speaker stays that "Yes, I will be thy priest" to the lover of Cupid. Another of his works describes a "heifer lowing at the skies." The speaker of that poem says to a "Bold Lover," "never, never canst thou kiss." In that poem, he says that "Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard / Are sweeter" while addressing a "Sylvan historian." In that poem, he addresses a "still-unravished bride of quietness" and concludes "Beauty is truth, truth beauty." For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet who wrote Odes "to Psyche" and "on a Grecian Urn."
John Keats 
4

110816-)
This novel coined the word "freelance." It's not The Fall of the House of Usher, but a character in this novel struggles out of a coffin during his funeral; that character, Aethelstane, pledges himself to the "Black Sluggard." Another character in this novel hopes to fight on the behalf of an accused witch but is instead told to champion her accusers. That knight fights "the Disinherited One" before the Templars. Isaac of York gives money to the title character, who defends the Jewish Rebecca from Brian de Bois-Guilbert. For 10 points, name this Walter Scott novel in which Cedric the Saxon's son marries Lady Rowena with the help of Richard the Lionheart.
Ivanhoe
4

110828-)
This author created a character who says that finding the meaning of the world is his "meat and drink," and asks "Can't I take breath and try to add life's flash?" saying "paint the soul, never mind the legs and arms!" In another of his poems, the title character accepted a "bough of cherries", rode a white mule around a terrace, and had a "heart...too soon made glad." This author described Fra Pandolf's image of an adulterous character which sits near a bronze of Neptune, "painted on the wall / Looking as if she were alive." For 10 points, name this English poet of the dramatic monologues "Fra Lippo Lippi" and "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning 
4

110855-)
A woman in this novel wears her hair in the shape of a helmet and continues to stand on the shore despite rifle shots. A painting of a blindfolded woman holding a torch factors into this novel, in which a "universal genius" pens a report on the suppression of local customs which ends with the post-script "Exterminate all the brutes!" A hut surrounded by staked rebel heads in this novel is home to an ivory trader whose final words were not his fiancee's name, but rather "The horror! The horror!" For 10 points, name this novel in which Kurtz is visited by Marlow on a trip up a river into the Congo jungle, by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness
4

110861-)
One person who renounces this identity label asks "Why should I hold a candle to my shame?", steals a turquoise ring, and elopes with Lorenzo. A title character from this group of people drinks mandrake juice to escape from prison before dying in a hot cauldron. A man of this ethnicity, Jessica's father, asks "If you prick us, do we not bleed?" and aids Bassanio's efforts at wooing Portia. The cruel Barabbas is one of these people in a Christopher Marlowe play set in Malta, and a more famous one demands a "pound of flesh" from Antonio. For 10 points, name this minority religious group which includes Shylock in Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice.  
Jews [or Jewish persons; or Jewish people; or Judaism] 
4

110887-)
One character in this work has her bowels torn at by dogs begotten with her son, and another character takes the form of a toad after deceiving the Regent of the Sun, Uriel.  After describing the work of the architect Mulciber, proposals from Belial and Mammon are heard in a council held in Pandemonium before Beelzebub's proposal is accepted, and Sin and Death are made ambassadors on Earth after two other characters consume fruit from the Tree of Knowledge.  Depicting the expulsion of Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden, For 10 points, name this epic poem by John Milton.
Paradise Lost
3

110911-)
This man denounced Lord Elgin in one poem and satirized Robert Southey's elegy to George III in another.  In addition to "The Curse of Minerva" and The Vision of Judgment, this poet created an English nobleman who is shocked by the cruelty of bullfighting in Spain before falling in love with Julia on the banks of the Rhine.  This poet also wrote a poem in which the protagonist is sold as a slave to the sultana after his capture by Haidee's father and is easily seduced by women.  For 10 points, name this English poet of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and Don Juan who died fighting in the Greek War of Independence.
Lord Byron [accept George Gordon]
3

110936-)
In this poem, an instruction to "see how graciously [the moon] looketh down on" the ocean is given by the "Second Voice" in dialogue with the "First Voice", and the protagonist claims that "A spring of love gushed from my heart" as he blessed some snakes.  Earlier, the protagonist is won by "The Nightmare Life-in-Death" in a dice game against Death, who claims his two hundred companions.  The central tale is related to the Wedding-Guest by the title character, who is cursed for shooting an albatross.  For 10 points, name this long poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner
3

110952-)
In one work by this author, the protagonist is disturbed by a red notebook containing a series of caricatures of him drawn by the deaf girl Jenny Mullion.  In that novel, Mr. Scrogan and Denis Stone attend a party held at the Wimbush estate.  In another novel, the story of a black man kidnapping a woman in a helicopter is told in a "feely" watched by a character who whips to death Lenina Crowne and debates the World Controller Mustapha Mond after being brought from New Mexico by Bernard Marx.  Writing about John the Savage in that work, For 10 points, name this British novelist who wrote Crome Yellow and Brave New World.
Aldous Huxley
3

110953-)
In this work, a trip to Brighton is precipitated by Colonel Miller's regiment relocating from Meryton, and after Christmas, one character stays with the Gardiners in London.  Earlier, the protagonist is criticized for getting mud on her clothes while walking three miles to visit her sick sister.  The protagonist disapproves of the marriage between the officer Wickham and her younger sister Lydia, and after being confronted by Catherine Bingley, the protagonist becomes engaged to Mr. Darcy.  For 10 points, name this novel about Jane and Elizabeth Bennet written by Jane Austen.
Pride and Prejudice
3

110981-)
In this work, the protagonist associates unrequited love with a room full of stopped clocks from his childhood.  Those clocks were stopped by the room's owner when she was stood up at her wedding by Arthur Compeyson.  Bentley Drummle becomes betrothed to the protagonist's childhood love while he rooms with Herbert Pocket in London, where he initially believes he is being supported by Miss Havisham, and Joe Gargery takes care of him after the death of his benefactor, the convict Abel Magwich.  For 10 points, name this novel about the orphan Pip written by Charles Dickens.
Great Expectations
3

111012-)
In this work, the five wounds of Christ and five virtues of the protagonist are identified with the pentangle which he bears on his coat.  At a feast, one character in this work refuses to eat until he is told a fantastic tale, and later, the protagonist gives his host three kisses which he received from the host's wife, though he withholds a silk girdle.  At the Castle Haut Desert, the protagonist is the guest of Lord Bertilak, the same character whom the protagonist agreed to endure a blow from a year and a day after decapitating him.  For 10 points, name this Arthurian romance by the Pearl Poet.
Sir Gawain and the Green Knight
3

111027-)
The protagonist of this work breaks his arm while catching his beloved as she is thrown from her horse while returning from hunting.  As a child, the protagonist befriends the gamekeeper Black George and is tutored by Reverend Thwackum, and he causes a brief scandal due to his affair with Mrs. Waters, who is actually his supposed mother Jenny.  The protagonist wounds Mr. Fitzpatrick in a duel after learning that Master Blifil is being brought to London to marry his love, Sophia Western.  For 10 points, name this novel in which Squire Allworthy adopts the titular foundling, a work of Henry Fielding.
The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling
3

111039-)
The protagonist of this work is sent to recover the bones of Fresleven, his predecessor, and tears a postscript reading "Exterminate all the brutes!" from a pamphlet he delivers to his superiors.  Narrating from aboard the Nellie, the protagonist suffers from a lack of rivets for his ship prior to meeting a Russian traveler that admires a character who decorates the Inner Station with human heads and whose last words are "The Horror!".  For 10 points, name this novel in which Marlow seeks out the ivory trader Mr. Kurtz in the Congo, a work of Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness
3

111067-)
Works of architecture located in this country include a pair of belfries known colloquially as the "Towers of the Teeth", which are connected by a structure called the Morannon.  This country's agricultural center is the southern region of Nurn, and most transit across this country's borders is conducted via Cirith Gorgor and Cirith Ungol.  This country borders Rhun to the north and Khand and Harad to the south, and its most notable landmarks include the tower of Barad-Dur and Orodruin, also known as Mount Doom.  For 10 points, name this "Land of Shadow" ruled by Sauron in The Lord of the Rings.
Mordor
3

111072-)
The narrator of one poem by this man states "My mother bore me in the southern wild", and another relates "How the youthful Harlot's curseÂ…blights with plagues the Marriage hearse".  He included five sections titled "A Memorable Fancy" in a work developing Urthona and Los as two forms of creativity, one of the four zoas.  This poet of "The Little Black Boy" states how "I wander thro' each charter'd street" in "London" and also wrote a poem describing an animal "burning bright in the forests of the night".  For 10 points, name this English poet of The Marriage of Heaven and Hell and "The Tyger".
William Blake
3

111080-)
The destiny of this work's protagonist is associated with a red bull in a field of green, which he discovers in the flag of the Maverick regiment.  One long-time companion of the protagonist is in search of the River of the Arrow, and the protagonist is trained by Mr. Lurgan before acting under the orders of Colonel Creighton and delivering papers to the horse trader Mahbub Ali.  Following the titular member of the O'Hara family who becomes a spy for the British Secret Service, For 10 points, name this novel by Rudyard Kipling.
Kim
3

111107-)
One character in this work recites Tiresias's lines from The Waste Land through a megaphone at passers under his window.  The protagonist of this work travels to Venice with a friend recovering from a broken ankle who introduces him to Anthony Blanche.  On a boat from New York, the protagonist begins an affair with Julia Mottram, and earlier, he travels to Fez to visit his alcoholic Oxford companion Sebastian, whose father Lord Marchmain is the proprietor of the title estate.  Narrated by Captain Charles Ryder, For 10 points, name this novel by Evelyn Waugh.
Brideshead Revisited
3

111129-)
In this novel, Robert Leaven informs the protagonist about the death of John, a bully from her childhood, and Miss Scatcherd beats one character with a pile of sticks for no apparent reason. The protagonist of this novel is humiliated when she is ordered to stand on a stool by Mr. Brocklehurst, and her best friend Helen Burns dies during a typhus epidemic at the Lowood School. After the death of the insane Bertha Mason, the protagonist returns to Thornfield Manor and reunites with her lover Edward Rochester. For 10 points, name this novel by Charlotte Bronte.
Jane Eyre
3

111167-)
This author wrote a novel in which Dorothy Hare becomes a schoolteacher after being jailed for sleeping in Trafalgar Square. In another novel by this man, the unfinished manuscript for London Pleasures is trashed by Gordon Comstock. This author of A Clergyman's Daughter and Keep the Aspidistra Flying wrote an essay in which the narrator hesitates to kill the title creature, "Shooting an Elephant." Napoleon drives Snowball out of the title location in one novel by this man, who also depicted Winston Smith's resistance against Big Brother. For 10 points, name this author of Animal Farm and 1984.
George Orwell [accept Eric Blair]
3

111223-)
The narrator in one of this man's poems asks a goddess to "hear these tuneless numbers," and exclaims, "A bright torch, and a casement ope at night to let the warm Love in!" This author of "Ode to Psyche" wrote about "mists and mellow fruitfulness" in "To Autumn," and stated that "A thing of beauty is a joy forever" in Endymion. He addressed an "unravished bride of quietness" in a poem which states that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty." For 10 points, name this Romantic poet who wrote "Ode to a Nightingale" and "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
John Keats
3

111235-)
One character in this work laments, "O judgment! thou art fled to brutish beasts, and men have lost their reason" in a speech which also declares "The evil that men do lives after them; the good is oft interred with their bones." In this play, a statue with a hundred wounds spouting blood is dreamt by Calpurnia. A character claiming, "The faultÂ…is in our stars, not ourselves" persuades another to murder the title character, who is warned by a soothsayer to beware the Ides of March. For 10 points, name this play in which Cassius and Brutus plot the assassination of the title ruler, a tragedy by William Shakespeare.
The Tragedy of Julius Caesar
3

111255-)
The narrator of this poem states that the world "seems to lie before us like a land of dreams" and has "neither joy, nor love, nor light." The speaker of this poem tells its reader to "Come to the window" because "sweet is the night-air," and notes that "the moon lies fair." He states that he could only hear the "melancholy, long, withdrawing roar," but recalls that "Sophocles long ago / heard it on the Aegean." Beginning with the line "the sea is calm tonight," For 10 points, name this poem in which "ignorant armies clash by night," a work by Matthew Arnold.
"Dover Beach"
3

111286-)
This author wrote about the triumph of proverbs in his work The Gods of the Copybook Headings. In one poem, he states that the hyenas "know that the dead are safer meat," and in another, a soldier is hanged for shooting a sleeping comrade. This author of "Danny Deever" wrote a story in which Daniel Dravot and Peachey Carnehan take over the throne of Kafiristan. The narrator of one of his poems tells a water carrier that he is "a better man than I am," and he created such characters as Shere Khan, Baloo, and Mowgli. For 10 points, name this British author of The Jungle Book.
Joseph Rudyard Kipling
3

111290-)
In one part of this work, Canacee is given a brass horse, a mirror, and a ring that allows her to understand birds. In another part of this work, a knight guilty of rape goes on a quest to learn that what women desire most is power. Other stories in this collection include one in which Nicholas is branded on the bottom by Absalon after seducing Alison, and one in which Palamon and Arcite battle for the hand of Emily. Narrators in this work include the Knight, the Wife of Bath, and the Miller. For 10 points, name this collection of stories told by a group of pilgrims, a work of Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales [accept "The Squire's Tale" before "rape"]
3

111341-)
This author wrote a work in which a character states "God's in his Heaven / All's right with the world!" This author of Pippa Passes wrote a poem in which the title figure sends Lucrezia to her "Cousin", while in another, a character from The Tempest tries to infer what his god must be like. This author of "Caliban upon Setebos" and "Andrea del Sarto" wrote about a man who strangles his lover with her long yellow hair, while his most famous work ends with the speaker showing his guests a sculpture of Neptune taming a seahorse. For 10 points, name this poet of the dramatic monologues "Porphyria's Lover" and "My Last Duchess".
Robert Browning [prompt on Browning]
3

111367-)
Images in this poem include a "Multifoliate rose" and "Sunlight on a broken column." The narrator of this poem describes "Eyes I dare not meet in dreams, in death's dream kingdom" and declares "Between the essence and the descent falls the Shadow." This poem substitutes the "prickly pear" into a children's song, and the epigraph for this poem reads, "Mistah Kurtz--he dead." For 10 points, name this poem concluding "This is the way the world ends, not with a bang but with a whimper," a poem about "stuffed men" by T. S. Eliot.
"The Hollow Men"
3

111384-)
The narrator of this poem states that "All breathing human passion far above," and in the first stanza, he wonders "What leaf-fringed legend haunts about thy shape." One section of this work describes a "heifer lowing at the skies" led by a "mysterious priest," while another urges "ye soft pipe" to "play on" since "Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard / Are sweeter." The title "foster-child of Silence and slow Time" is described as an "Attic shape," and this work begins by addressing the "still unravish'd bride of quietness." For 10 points, name this poem which proclaims that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty," written by John Keats.
"Ode on a Grecian Urn"
3

111393-)
This author wrote about Nina's marriage to Dain, after which the protagonist lives in an unfinished house, and another of his novels sees Sulaco become the Occidental Republic after seceding from Costaguana. This author of Almayer's Folly and Nostromo wrote a work in which Stevie is trained to bomb the Greenwich Observatory by Verloc, and he also wrote about a character who is disgraced for abandoning the Patna. This author of The Secret Agent and Lord Jim wrote a novel in which one character's last words are "The horror! The horror!" For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Kurtz and Marlow in Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad [accept Jozef Teodor Konrad Nalecz Korzeniowski]
3

111402-)
This man wrote that "The world's more full of weeping than you can understand" in "The Stolen Child," while one of his narrators states that "I will arise and go now" before building a small "cabin of clay and wattles." He wrote that "A terrible beauty is born" while describing an uprising in his country, and this poet of "The Lake-Isle of Innisfree" stated that the title location is "no country for old men." He stated that "things fall apart; the centre cannot hold" before asking "what rough beastÂ…slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?" in his most famous poem. For 10 points, name this Irish poet of "Sailing to Byzantium" and "The Second Coming."
William Butler Yeats
3

111425-)
This author wrote a novel in which Maurice Hall befriends Clive Durham, who introduces him to ancient Greek literature about homosexuality. In another work, George Emerson throws bloodstained photographs into the river after witnessing a murder and marries Lucy Honeychurch after she leaves her fiancÃ© Cecil Vyse. Charles Wilcox murders Leonard Bast while trying to remove Margaret and Helen from the title location in another of his works, and this author of Howard's End wrote a novel in which Dr. Aziz is accused of assaulting Ms. Quested. For 10 points, name this author of A Room With a View and A Passage to India.
Edward Morgan Forster
3

111445-)
In one work of this author, Alvina Houghton runs off with a traveling performer from her father's theater business. That novel, The Lost Girl, is a sequel to a work of this man about Gerald Crich and Rupert Birkin's love for the sisters Gudrun and Ursula Brangwen. This author of Women in Love wrote about Paul and his death after picking Malabar to win the Derby in "The Rocking Horse Winner." Miriam Leivers and Clara Dawes fall in love with the protagonist in another work of this author who wrote about the affairs of Constance and the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this author of Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley's Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence
3

111466-)
One woman in this novel rejects a man because she is repulsed by his moles, and Fred Vincy unsuccessfully tries to sell a horse to settle a debt. John Raffles blackmails Nicholas Bulstrode in this novel, and Rosamond Vincy's tendency to spend money causes Tertius Lydgate financial problems. Edward Casaubon writes a will for his wife in this novel, which also features the marriage of Will Ladislaw and Dorothea Brooke. Subtitled "A Study of Provincial Life," For 10 points, name this novel by George Eliot.
Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life
3

111493-)
This character states that his thoughts have "one part wisdom and ever three parts coward" after meeting a captain leading an invasion against Poland. Earlier, he compares his mother to "a beast that wants a discourse of reason" after remarking that "frailty, thy name is woman." This character falsifies execution letters calling for the death of two close friends before he is exiled to England. At the end of the play in which he appears in, he kills his uncle Claudius in revenge for the murder of his father and usurpation of the Danish throne. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean tragic hero who delivers the famous "to be or not to be" soliloquy.
Hamlet
3

111500-)
In this novel, Fifi Bradlaugh and Morgana Rothschild are introduced following a comment on the efficiency of a crematorium made by Henry Foster. Podsnap's Technique and the Bokanovsky Process are utilized in a hatchery in this novel to streamline human reproduction. The majority of the world's population is addicted to the drug soma, and Bernard Marx is exiled by World Controller Mustapha Mond for inviting two characters to London.  For 10 points, name this novel that sees Lenina attempt to seduce John the Savage, written by Aldus Huxley.
Brave New World
3

111515-)
A symbol of baptism is shown in this work when the protagonist leaps into a lake. One character in this work is killed by the Swedes for sheltering refugees, which allows the protagonist to become the king. The protagonist of this work previously engaged in a swimming contest with Breca, and he is later saved by Wiglaf in a battle. The protagonist uses Hrunting to fight a monster in this work, and he yanks off the arm of his opponent in a fight. For 10 points, name this work which sees the title character save Hrothgar's kingdom by slaying Grendel.
Beowulf
3

111524-)
In one of this man's poems, a "vengeful god" exclaims "Know that thy sorrow is my ecstasy," and in another he speaks of "Some blessed Hope, whereof he knew / and I was unaware." This author of "Hap" and "The Darkling Thrush" wrote a novel in which a stonemason is tricked into marrying Arabella Donn, and another in which Michael Henchard assumes the title office after selling his daughter and wife. This author of Jude the Obscure and The Mayor of Casterbridge wrote a novel in which Jack Durbeyfield's daughter marries Angel Clare and murders Alec. For 10 points, name this author of Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
3

111550-)
This man wrote a poem which opens with the lines "I do not know much about gods; but I think that the river / Is a strong brown god." This man included "The Dry Salvages" in his Four Quartets, and he described an evening "spread out against the sky / Like a patient etherized upon a table" in another poem. He contemplated that the world ends "not with a bang but a whimper" in one work, and repeatedly stated that "Women come and go / Talking of Michelangelo" in another. His most famous works begins with the line "April is the cruelest month." For 10 points, name this author of "The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock" and The Waste Land.
Thomas Stearns Eliot
3

111559-)
One character in this work drowns in the Thames while fighting with another, who had previously been deported to New South Wales. Another character in this work stands too close to a fire while wearing her wedding dress, and that character lived in Satis House after her fiancÃ©, Compeyson, left her. The protagonist of this novel gives a pork pie and brandy to the escaped convict Abel Magwitch, and he eventually marries her illegitimate daughter, Estella, who had been adopted by Miss Havisham. For 10 points, name this coming-of-age novel about the orphan Pip, a work by Charles Dickens.
Great Expectations
3

111580-)
The protagonist of this work throws a dictionary out the window in the beginning, and she later tricks Lord Styne into giving her double the money she needs. After the death of his wife, Sir Pitt proposes a marriage to the protagonist, who is already engaged to his son Rawdon. Captain Dobbin succeeds in reconciling Mr. Obsorne to his son's wife, who is left by herself to care for her child after the death of George during the Battle of Waterloo. For 10 points, name this work including characters like Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp, a novel by William Thackeray.
Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero
3

111591-)
One work by this man describes a hostage, whose brothers died "one in fire, and two in field." This author of "The Prisoner of Chillon" satirized Robert Southey's elegy to George III, and wrote about how "The Assyrians came down like the wolf on the fold" in "The Destruction of Sennacherib." This man asks "How should I greet thee?" in "When We Two Parted," and he wrote a poem about a womanizer who is captured by Haidee's father. For 10 points, name this British Romantic poet who wrote Don Juan and died in the Greek War of Independence.
George Gordon Noel, Lord Byron [accept any underlined name]
3

111622-)
One of this man's works begins by exulting, "How exquisite the scents / Snatch'd from yon bean-field!" This author wrote the Conversation poems, as well as a poem in which the narrator describes how "the night is chilly, but not dark" as the title character enters the woods to pray. He wrote a poem inspired by opium-induced visions of the river Alph and a "stately pleasure-dome." This author of "Christabel" also wrote about how a sailor's life is won by Life-in-Death after the unprovoked slaying of an albatross. For 10 points, name this author of "Kubla Khan" and The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
3

111629-)
In one of this man's plays, Sir Petronel attempts to run away to Virginia with Winifred, but is thwarted by a storm and imprisoned with Quicksilver. Another of this man's plays sees Quarlous win the hand of Dame Purecraft and Justice Overdo try to punish wrongdoers, only to end up inviting everyone to dinner. In addition to Eastward Ho! and Bartholomew Fair, this man wrote about Lovewit, Dame Pliant, and Face in one play and the struggles of Corbaccio, Voltore, and Corvino to become the title character's heir in another. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan author of The Alchemist and Volpone.
Ben(jamin) Jonson
3

111655-)
This story alludes to the tale of Midas, but withholds the ending, telling the reader that he should read Ovid. One character encounters a group of women dancing, who vanish and turn into an old hag. That character is asked whether noble character can be hereditary, and this story concludes with a plea that all men be given wives who outlive their husbands. A knight is sent on a quest by the queen after raping a young woman, and he agrees to marry an old hag when she saves him from decapitation. The hag then turns into a beautiful princess in, For 10 points, what story found in Chaucer's Canterbury Tales that claims that what women desire most is power?
"The Wife of Bath's Tale" [prompt on The Canterbury Tales]
3

111676-)
One character in this work is opposed by Sir Olifaunt, while another recounts how a crow betrayed an adulteress and had its feathers turned black as a result. A third character, who speaks before Sir Thebas and the Manciple, claims that during the reign of King Arthur, faeries were commonplace, and later relates that women desire to have control over their husbands. The first story in this work, set during the reign of Theseus, features a duel between Arcite and Palamon in order to win the love of Emily. For 10 points, name this collection of stories featuring such characters as a Parson, a Knight, and a Wife of Bath, the most famous work of Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales 
3

111696-)
The body of one character in this work floats out to sea while surrounded by glowing fish. Johnny and Percival have their sandcastles destroyed in this work; those two characters play with Henry, who is a distant relative to another unnamed character with a "mulberry-marked face." Near the end of this novel, one of the main characters whose eyeglasses are the only source of fire is killed by a member of Jack's tribe; that character was Piggy. For 10 points, name this work about a group of young boys who turn on each other while stranded on an island, a novel by William Golding.
Lord of the Flies
3

111718-)
In one of this man's works, the kings of Fez, Moroccus, and Argier plot at a feast with the title character, who had previously betrayed Cosroe after seizing the crown of the emperor of Persia. This author of Tamburlaine also wrote a work in which the title character's blood spells "homo fuge" on his arm before he signs a deadly contract. Another of this man's works sees Abigail get poisoned by the title character, Barabas, who falls into a boiling cauldron and dies. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan playwright of The Jew of Malta and The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus.
Christopher Marlowe
3

111759-)
One character in this novel is assaulted by Felix De Lacey, and shortly thereafter burns down his cottage. This novel's protagonist, whose mother died of scarlet fever, is rescued at the beginning of the novel by Robert Walton, to whom he tells his story. Justine Moritz is convicted of the murder of the protagonist's brother, and after spending some time in the Orkney Islands the protagonist of this novel is accused and acquitted of the murder of Henry Clerval. That man, the husband of Elizabeth, claims to have discovered how to reanimate dead bodies. For 10 points, name this novel by Mary Shelley about a scientist who accidentally creates a hideous monster.
Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
3

111790-)
In one of this man's poems, the speaker asks to go "to arched walks of twilight groves" "when the Sun begins to fling his flaring beams," and justifies Vesta's incestuous relationship with Saturn after hailing their daughter, "divinest Melancholy o'er laid with black." That poem contrasts with another of his works whose speaker asks to live with Mirth, L'Allegro. In his most famous work, a character tells the Sun "how I hate thy beams" after crying "Hail horrors, hail, infernal world," having been accosted by Beelzebub in Hell. For 10 points, name this seventeenth-century English poet of Il Penseroso who depicted Satan and Eden in Paradise Lost.
John Milton
3

111824-)
This writer described himself burning a woman's portrait in "The Photograph," and mentioned "eyes that rove / Over tedious riddles solved years ago" in the poem "Neutral Tones." This writer also created a character who falls in love with Lucette Le Sueur after selling his wife to a sailor named Newson. Other works by this man include a novel in which Fanny Robin dies after being impregnated by Sergeant Troy, and a work in which Angel promises to take care of Liza-Lu after Alec is stabbed to death. For 10 points, name this author of The Mayor of Casterbridge, Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
3

111853-)
One character in this work adopts the alias of "Morris Bolter" and had formerly been an apprentice under Mr. Sowerberry. Another character, Charley Bates, delivers news regarding a character who had been caught stealing a silver snuffbox. The protagonist of this work is shot during an attempted robbery of Rose Maylie's house, who later is revealed to be the protagonist's aunt. Later in this work, Nancy attempts to help the protagonist but is murdered by Bill Sikes. For 10 points, name this work whose orphaned protagonist encounters characters such as the Artful Dodger, a novel by Charles Dickens.
Oliver Twist; or, The Parish Boy's Progress
3

111865-)
This work titles a Margaret Atwood short story about a couple arguing over this poem's meaning. This poem tells of a "white mule" that the title figure "rode with, round the terrace," which along with "the dropping of daylight in the West" and a "bough of cherries" elicits a smile from the title figure. The narrator points the viewer to a sculpture of Neptune "taming a sea-horse," and this poem recounts Fra Pandolf's remark that the title figure had "a heart too soon made glad." For 10 points, name this poem about the portrait of a noble's dead wife by Robert Browning.
My Last Duchess
3

111881-)
One character in this work claims to be able to swim like a duck, while another salvages a keg of alcohol from a shipwreck and becomes incredibly intoxicated. A third character in this work describes her true love as "the third man that e'er I saw;" the man in question, earlier in this work, had claimed that "Hell is empty / And all the devils are here." In this work, Trinculo and Stephano attempt to help Caliban overthrow his master, while Ferdinand is told that "Full fathom five thy father lies" by the spirit Ariel before falling in love with Miranda. For 10 points, name this play featuring the exiled Duke of Milan, Prospero, written by William Shakespeare.
The Tempest
3

111916-)
This man adapted one of his own short stories into the play The Widowing of Mrs Holroyd, in which the wife of a coal miner is informed that her husband has died. In another of his works, the Polish refugee Lydia serves as housekeeper at the vicarage before getting married; later, both Winifred Inger and Anton Skrebensky become romantically involved with Ursula Brangwen. This man's greatest notoriety came from a work in which Constance has an affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this author of Odour of Chrysanthemums, The Rainbow, and Lady Chatterley's Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence
3

111918-)
In this work, a blind man appears on the day after the funeral of the main character's father and demands to be led to a man who is frequently intoxicated and who dies shortly thereafter. In a battle scene later in this novel, Abraham Gray is able to kill Job Anderson before Job is able to deliver a striking blow to the main character by sword. Captain Smollett is deposed by a mutiny in this novel, and one character who has been marooned for three years, Ben Gunn, obsesses over cheese. For 10 points, name this novel written by Robert Louis Stevenson featuring Jim Hawkins and Long John Silver.
Treasure Island 
3

111923-)
One work by this author opens with the protagonist describing the death of Constans, who drowns following the shipwreck of the "Lady Vain." That work by this author involves such characters as the Hyena-Swine, who becomes the enemy of Prendick. Another of this man's works sees Thomas Kemp request to be imprisoned after attempting to betray Griffin to the police. This man also created a protagonist who travels into the future and must retrieve one of his inventions from the Morlocks. For 10 points, name this author of science fiction novellas such as The Island of Doctor Moreau, The Invisible Man, and The Time Machine.
Herbert George Wells
3

111951-)
This man wrote an elegy in which he asks a woman to "show/The hairy diadem which on you doth grow," entitled "To His Mistress Going to Bed." In another work, he invites the reader to "let us melt, and make no noise." One of this man's poems describes an entity "slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men," and he is known for quotations such as "never send to know for whom the bell tolls" and "[n]o man is an island." For 10 points, name this author of "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning," an English metaphysical poet who wrote that "Death be not proud, though some have called thee" in one of his Holy Sonnets.
John Donne
3

111976-)
One character in this novel who moves into an estate near Meryton is persuaded by his sister Caroline to avoid a marriage in which "there were some very strong objections against the lady." That incident was partially orchestrated by another character who lives at Pemberley and who describes another young lady as "tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me." That character, the nephew of Lady Catherine de Bourgh, helps to prevent a scandal by convincing his archenemy George Wickham to marry Lydia. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen novel in which Mr. Bingley marries Jane and Mr. Darcy marries Elizabeth Bennet.
Pride and Prejudice
3

111983-)
This author wrote of a time when "forty winters shall besiege thy brow/And dig deep trenches in thy beauty's field." In another poem, this man evokes "sweet silent thought" by "[summoning] up remembrance of things past." The speaker of another of this author's poems begins "Let me not to the marriage of true minds/Admit impediments." In one work, this poet stated "so as long eyes can see/So long lives this and this gives life to thee". This man began a late poem "My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun", and also asked the Dark Lady "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?" For 10 points, name this Elizabethan-era poet who wrote 154 of his namesake sonnets.
William Shakespeare
3

112007-)
One of this author's characters reads The Stones of Venice to learn English after meeting a woman who imagines dancing goblins while listening to Beethoven's 5th symphony. In that book, Leonard Bast dies of heart failure after being pushed into a bookcase by Charles Wilcox. A desire to switch hotel rooms begins a love affair between George Emerson and Lucy Honeychurch in one of this writer's novels. This author also wrote about the haunting echo of Marabar Caves, where Dr. Aziz is accused of raping Adela Quested. For 10 points, name this English author of Howard's End and A Passage to India.
Edward Morgan Forster 
3

112023-)
In one poem, this man wrote about how the "hapless Soldiers sigh/Runs in blood down palace walls". This author wrote about a time when "the stars threw down their spears/And water'd heaven with their tears" in another work. This man mentions the "mind forged manacles [he] hears" in his poem "London", and asked "What dread hand? And what dread feet?' in a poem about a figure who "Dare its deadly terrors clasp!" This author asks another subject "Dost thou know who made thee". This poet wrote about a creature "burning bright/In the forests of the night". For 10 points, name this English poet who included "The Lamb" and "The Tyger" in Songs of Innocence and Experience. 
William Blake 
3

112034-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems rambles about an "intellectual breeze" to his "pensive Sara." The speaker of another of his poems tells of the "symphony and song" of an "Abyssinian maid", who is "singing of Mount Abora" as the "damsel with a dulcimer". In one poem, this writer of "The Aeolian Harp" described a dice game between Life-in-Death and Death. He opened another work by describing the title figure decreeing a "stately-pleasure dome" in Xanadu. This man described a sailor who is cursed after his crew shoots down a large albatross. For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of "Kubla Khan" and The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge   
3

112062-)
The protagonist of this work is mistaken for Nathoo and adopted by Messua and her husband. This work and its same-named "Second" version were written while the author lived in Vermont. Each episode in this collection is followed by a poem or song, such as "Darzee's Chant" and "The Law for the Wolves." In order to save a boy named Teddy, a character in this collection kills Nag and Nagaina, two cobras. "Toomai of the Elephants" and "Kaa's Hunting" are two stories in this collection. For 10 points, name this collection of stories also including "Rikki-Tikki-Tavi" and several tales about Mowgli, written by Rudyard Kipling.
The Jungle Book [or The Second Jungle Book; ask for less specificity for answers of Rikki-Tikki-Tavi" and "Tyger, Tyger"]
3

112082-)
Mount Niphates lies north of this place. One character transforms himself into a cormorant to hide in a tree while in this place. A battle here is stopped by the appearance of golden scales in the sky. A toad in this literary locale whispers temptations into a woman's ear, which she later recalls as a dream. During a speech in this place, Raphael describes a war whose loser fell nine days into Chaos before emerging in Hell. At the end of one poem, two characters "[make] their solitary way" out of this site of "Man's first disobedience." Jesus is tempted by the Devil in a sequel about this place "regained". For 10 points, name this location which is "Lost" in a John Milton epic.
Paradise [or the Garden of Eden] 
3

112099-)
A character in this novel is disgusted with a man who doesn't like the writing of Cowper. Several characters in this novel debate over the origin of a lock of hair after a woman notices a locket-shaped ring. This novel's central family is forced to live with the Middletons at Barton Cottage after John and his wife Fanny give them only 2000 pounds. One character is spurned by the duplicitous John Willoughby, and another woman marries the former fiancee of Lucy Steele, Edward Ferrars. This novel ends with a marriage proposal by Colonel Brandon. For 10 points, name this novel whose title contrasts the philosophies of Elinor and Marianne Dashwood, written by Jane Austen. 
Sense and Sensibility
3

112114-)
A figure in this short work is "Full of strange oaths and bearded like a pard," "seeking bubble reputation/Even in the cannon's mouth." Another figure in this work is "sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad /made to his mistress' eyebrow." The speaker of this work states that life will end in "mere oblivion/sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything". This speech, given in Act II, is addressed to the Duke Senior in the Forest of Arden. Its speaker says that "all the men and women," with their "exits and entrances," are "merely players." For 10 points, name this speech in which Jacques compares the seven phases of life to acting in a play, which appears in As You Like It.
"All the world's a stage" [or Jacques's monologue from As You Like It; prompt on "As You Like It"; or accept "The Seven Ages of Man"]
3

112119-)
A recurrent theme in this novel concerns the narrator's "fascination with the abomination." In this book, the narrator obsesses over finding rivets and refers to a certain city as a "whited sepulchre." The protagonist panics about warm blood in his shoes when caught in a heavy, white fog, and finds a note that tells to "Exterminate all the brutes." In this novel, a character who lives in a compound surrounded by heads on stakes dies after saying "The horror! The horror!" This anti-imperialistic novel is narrated by riverboat captain Marlow about his journey to retrieve Kurtz from the Belgian Congo. For 10 points, name this novel by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness
3

112124-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems hears a "wise man" say "the heart out of the bosom/Was never given in vain". Another of this man's poems remarks "I tell the tale that I heard told./Mithridates, he died old". That poem states "the cow, the old cow, she is dead", and describes a man who "eats his victuals fast enough". This poet of "When I was one-and-twenty" told of a figure who wears a "garland briefer than a girl's". This author of "Terence, this is stupid stuff" began one poem "That time you won your town the race." For 10 points, name this poet who included "To an Athlete Dying Young" in his A Shropshire Lad. 
Alfred Edward Housman
3

112135-)
The speaker of one of this man's poems explains "the heart must pause to breathe" as his reason for doing the title action. This member of the Satanist school had a notorious feud with Robert Southey, a Lake Poet. In a work by this poet of  "We'll go no more a roving," the speaker describes a woman who had "a heart whose love is innocent" and compares her to "the night of cloudless climes and starry skies." In another poem, this author satirically portrayed the archetypal womanizer as one is easily seduced. For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of "She Walks in Beauty" and Don Juan ["joo-un".]
George Gordon, Lord Byron [accept either underlined name] 
3

112154-)
(Note to moderator: Make the italicized words "about" and "subject" in the next tossup very, very obvious. Like, shout them if you have to.)This author wrote about a man raised by monks who is told by the Prior to paint "the souls of men," not the flesh. A work written about this author proclaims "Yes, call me by my pet-name!" This author of "Fra Lippo Lippi" wrote about a man who commissioned works by Claus of Innsbruck and Fra Pandolf. In that poem, the title character, whose heart was "too soon made glad," was probably killed by the speaker, the Duke of Ferrara. This subject of Sonnets from the Portuguese wrote many dramatic monologues such as "My Last Duchess." For 10 points, name this husband of Elizabeth Barrett. 
Robert Browning [prompt on Browning until "Elizabeth Barrett"]
3

112168-)
While dying, a character in this novel mistakes her bed for the Fairy Cave at Penistone Crags. After mocking a boy for not knowing how to read, a character in this novel gives him a book, and the novel ends with their decision to marry on New Year's Day. The narrator of this novel is alarmed when a ghost's hand reaches into his room and starts bleeding from shattered glass. Isabella and Edgar Linton, heirs to Thrushcross Grange, marry the two protagonists of this novel. Narrated in parts by Nelly Dean and Mr. Lockwood, this novel's tragic couple is Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff. For 10 points, name this only novel by Emily Bronte.
Wuthering Heights  
3

112178-)
In a play by this author, a character drifts offstage, presumably dead, with the line, "Now you see me, now you --", and often ends the phrase "give us this day our daily-" with words like "week" and "mask". In one of this man's plays, a 13-year-old savant trying to prove Fermat's Theorem to her tutor Septimus Hodge is named Thomasina Coverly. The Rape of the Sabine Women, or, rather, woman, or, rather, Alfred, is announced by the Player in his best-known play. That work begins with a coin landing heads up ninety times in a row and features two characters from Hamlet. For 10 points, name this playwright of Arcadia and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
Tom Stoppard
3

112194-)
The narrator of this novel kills the Curate with a shovel after the Curate starts screaming uncontrollably. This novel describes a red weed that spreads uncontrollably in water. The opening line of this novel imagines men who scrutinize animalcules in a tiny drop of water.  In this novel, the HMS Thunder Child  is destroyed after it manages to take down a Tripod. Ogilvy is killed after a mysterious black cylinder is opened in this book; many other casualties come from black smoke and heat rays. This novel ends with the unnamed narrator reuning with his wife after the antagonists die from bacteria. For 10 points, name this sci-fi novel about a Martian invasion written by HG Wells.
The War of the Worlds
3

112210-)
This author wrote about a boy who screams "Malabar, it's Malabar" in his attempt to "get there", then dies of brain fever in a desperate attempt to avert his mother's poverty. This author wrote that, "Ours is essentially a tragic age-so we refuse to take it tragically." In a novel by this author of the "The Rocking-Horse Winner", Gertrude dies of a morphine overdose after preventing Miriam from being affectionate with her son Paul. Mrs. Bolton looks after a paraplegic from the war, leaving Constance alone with Oliver Mellors, in a work by this author censored for obscenity. For 10 points, name this author of Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley's Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence
3

112243-)
A character in this work named Albert gave his wife Lil some money to buy new teeth. One section of this work considers a seaman named Phlebas. Though it's not by Baudelaire, this poem includes a line addressed to a "hypocrite lecteur--mon semblable--mon frere." Evelyn Waugh titled a novel from this poem's quote, "I will show you fear in a handful of dust." This poem's line "London Bridge is falling down falling down falling down" is in its fifth section, which ends "Shantih shantih shantih." Heavily edited by Ezra Pound, this poem begins, "April is the cruellest month." For 10 points, name this modernist masterpiece by TS Eliot.
"The Waste-Land"
3

112257-)
Wilson is an unseen presence in this play. One character keeps a matchbox in his shoe and wonders why the car stopped in the middle of the road that morning. This play begins with stories about an eight-year-old girl killing a cat, and an 87-year-old man being hit by a carriage as he crossed the street. One character in this work worries about the long time the toilet takes to flush, and appears at the conclusion stripped of clothing, without his revolver. The protagonists ignore instructions to make tea and come to blows over the phrase"light the kettle." For 10 points, name this play about hitmen Ben and Gus, who receive dinner orders via the title contraption, written by Harold Pinter.
The Dumb Waiter
3

112275-)
The quintessential zeugma, "He took his hat and his leave", originates from one of this author's novels. Grip the Raven, a character in another of his novels, inspired Poe's "raven." This author's Christmas novels are divided into sections called "staves" and "chirps", the latter appearing in The Cricket on the Hearth. This author collected his nonfiction "sketches" into a work he published under the name Boz. The periodical Master Humphrey's Clock published this man's novels serially, though he wasn't actually paid by the word. For 10 points, name this author of The Mystery of Edwin Drood, The Pickwick Papers, and Great Expectations.
Charles Dickens 
3

112402-)
The speaker of this poem predicts that "power of some sort will go on / In games, in riddles, seemingly at random," at a locationwhere he wonders if "dubious women [will] come to make their children touch a particular stone" or "on some advisednight see walking a dead one." In the second stanza of this poem "the echoes snigger loudly" when the speaker "pronounces/ 'Here endeth' much more loudly than I'd meant." This poem describes a location "in whose blent air all our compulsionsmeet, are recognized, and robed as destinies," where the speaker notes "though I've no idea / What this accoutred frowsty barnis worth, / it pleases me to stand in silence here." The speaker of this poem claims, "someone will forever be surprising / Ahunger in himself to be more serious" at the title location "which, he once heard, was proper to grow wise in, / If only that somany dead lie round." The speaker of this poem ends the title activity reflflecting "the place was not worth stopping for" aftftermounting the lectern and feeling the baptismal font. For 10 points, name this Philip Larkin poem about an agnostic visiting aChristian house of worship.
"Church Going"
8

112432-)
The first letters of lines in this poem's third stanza form an acrostic reading, "HEAR." This poemdescribes how the "hapless soldier's sigh runs in blood down palace walls," and it claims that venerealdisease "blasts the newborn infant's tear and blights with plagues the marriage hearse." The speaker of thiswork claims to hear "mind-forged manacles" in the voice of everyone he meets while wandering through"each chartered street." For 10 points, name this poem from Songs of Experience in which William Blakeenumerates the afflictions of the title city.
"London"
7

112437-)
One of this author's characters whistles "The Last Rose of Summer" and wants to grow roses when heretires. In another of this author's novels, the obese Count Fosco betrays and is murdered by an Italiangroup called the "Brotherhood." He wrote a work in which art teacher Walter Hartright discovers LauraFairlie resembles an asylum escapee named Anne, while in another work Godfrey Ablewhite is murderedafter pocketing the title object. This author of Armadale collaborated with his friend Charles Dickens inwriting the story "A House to Let." In one of his novels, the title object is a stolen diamond eventuallyreturned to India. For 10 points, name this British author, who pioneered detective fiction in The Woman inWhite and The Moonstone.
William Wilkie Collins
7

112453-)
This set of works describes angels that "drop some golden orb of perfect song into our deep, dear silence". A more reflective entry asks "Could it mean to last, a love set pendulous between sorrow and sorrow?" Those inspired by the pastoral tradition include the first one, whose speaker "thought once how Theocritus had sung Of the sweet years". A more famous entry in this collection urges "Gather the north flowers to complete the south" and asks the addressee to (*) "call me by my pet-name!" Its best-known poem describes a certain emotion as being employed "to the depth and breadth and height / My soul can reach". For 10 points, identify this poetry collection that includes "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways", a work of Elizabeth Barret Browning.
Sonnets from the Portuguese
5

112472-)
A poet in this novel hides in a basement for three years after the murder of "The Hummingbird" and marries the protagonist's future mother. This novel's protagonist becomes known as "The Buddha" after losing his memory due to an unfortunate encounter with a silver spittoon. Its protagonist's sister, who becomes a popular singer performing behind a sheet, is nicknamed "The (*) Brass Monkey." This winner of the "Booker of Bookers" opens with the story of Aadam Aziz and proceeds to tell the story of a boy switched at birth with the violent "Shiva of the Knees". Its protagonist's telepathic powers are due to being born at the exact moment India gained independence. For 10 points, name this novel about Saleem Sinai, a work of Salman Rushdie.
Midnight's Children
5

112478-)
This author wrote "when thou art gone, love itself shall slumber on" to conclude one poem, and depicted Laon's revolution against Othman, the tyrant of Argolis, in another. This author of "Music, when Soft Voices Die" and "The Revolt of Islam" wrote of an "old, mad, blind, despised, and dying king" in a reaction to the Peterloo Massacre called "England in 1819". He lamented the death of a figure whose "soul (*) beacons from the abode where the eternal are" in an elegy for John Keats and asked "If winter comes, can spring be far behind?" in another poem. A traveler describes a pedestal reading "Look upon my works, ye mighty, and despair!" in a sonnet by this author. For 10 points, name this English poet of "Adonais", "Ode to the West Wind", and "Ozymandias".
Percy Bysshe Shelley [prompt on partial answer]
5

112501-)
One character in this novel delays the carefully timed serving of "Boeuf au Daube" at a dinner party by inappropriately asking for another cup of soup. Another of its characters laments his inability to mentally get past the letter "Q" in the alphabet. The phrase "Someone had blundered" from "The Charge of the Light Brigade" recurs throughout its first section, in which Minta (*) Doyle becomes engaged to Paul Rayley. Mrs. Bast and Mrs. McNabb restore the central house in its second section, "Time Passes", which describes Prue dying in childbirth. Lily Briscoe completes her abstract portrait in this book's final section, while James and Cam complete the title journey with their father Mr. Ramsay. For 10 points, name this 1927 novel by Virginia Woolf.
To the Lighthouse
5

112510-)
Maud Allan created a famous production of this play titled for the "Vision" of its title character. It opens with a scene in which a Page and a Young Syrian discuss the nature of the moon, shortly after which a voice from a cistern prophesies the coming of Christ. This play was dedicated to Lord Alfred Douglas despite the fact that he'd botched the initial translation from the original (*) French, and it was illustrated by Aubrey Beardsley. At the climax of this play, its protagonist kisses an item she'd requested as a reward for performing the "dance of the seven veils". For 10 points, name this tragedy in which the stepdaughter of Herod demands the head of Jokanaan, or John the Baptist, on a silver platter, a play by Oscar Wilde.
Salome
5

112515-)
This author wrote a dialogue between Eugenius, Crites, Lisideius, and Neander, the last of whom asserts that Shakespeare was "the greatest soul, ancient or modern". One of his poems opens with the line "All human things are subject to decay, and when fate summons, monarchs must obey". The usurper Polydamas is dethroned by Leonidas, who finally marries Palmyra, in (*) Marriage a la Mode , a play by this author of an attack on the "true-blue Protestant" Thomas Shadwell. Monmouth and Shaftesbury are represented as the title characters of a political satire by this man, who reworked Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra in his most famous play. For 10 points, identify this author of "Mac Flecknoe", "Absalom and Achitophel", and All for Love.
John Dryden
5

112541-)
In one of these poems, the speaker discusses the "sweet love" that makes him "scorn to change my state with kings". Another one begins "Not marble, nor the gilded monuments of princes, shall outlive this powerful rhyme". In one of these poems, the speaker admits "If snow be white, why then her breasts are dun", while another addresses the "master mistress of my passion". Groups of them address the "Fair (*) Youth" and the "Dark Lady", and they include "Let me not to the marriage of true minds" and "My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun". Another of them notes "Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May". For 10 points, identify this group of fourteen-line poems, including "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?", by the author of King Lear.
sonnets by William Shakespeare [prompt on "sonnets" or other partial answers]
5

112550-)
Robert Armin played several examples of these characters, including one who marries the goatherdAudrey even as he predicts the marriage will not last. Another delivers the line, "And I'll go to bed atnoon" before his unexplained disappearance from his play. That character recites a strange prophecy heclaims Merlin will repeat in the future, and many scholars have suggested he and Cordelia were played bythe same boy actor. Another of these characters pretends to be a priest to help Maria and Sir Toby Belchinto making Malvolio believe he has been locked up for insanity. Feste and Touchstone are examples of,for 10 points, what motley-dressed characters, who are often sources of comic relief?
fools [or clowns]
7

112552-)
This poem describes how "barred clouds bloom the soft-dying day, and touch the stubble plains withrosy hue." The speaker tells this poem's addressee, "Sometimes whoever seeks abroad may find theesitting careless on a granary floor." This poem mentions how "in a wailful choir the small gnats mournÂ…andgathering swallows twitter in the skies." Although not titled as one, this poem is the last of its author's1819 odes, and its final stanza begins by asking, "Where are the songs of Spring?" For 10 points, name thispoem about a "season of mists and mellow fruitfulness" written by John Keats.
"To Autumn"
7

112572-)
Much of this novel is set in Merripit House, where the antagonist ties his wife to the bedpost afterpretending to be her brother. Its action begins when the doctor Mortimer brings news of the central deathand the theft of a boot. One of its characters holds a candle in the window as a signal that food has been leftfor the escaped convict Selden, who dies after being chased by the title character. After learning that theschool teacher Vandeleur has disguised himself as Stapleton, the protagonist of this novel summonsDetective Inspector Lestrade. Stapleton uses phosphorus to reinforce fears of an old family curse, whichprompts Sir Charles to die of a heart attack in Dartmoor. For 10 points, name this Arthur Conan Doylenovel in which Sherlock Holmes encounters a scary dog.
The Hound of the Baskervilles
7

112585-)
This play's protagonist compares his treatment of his enemies to "letting the cherry knock against theirlips." That character later sings a song urging the addressee to "let us prove, while we can, the sports oflove," and disguises himself as the mountebank Scoto. A disinherited son named Bonario thwarts the titlecharacter's attempted rape of Celia, who is pimped out by her formerly jealous husband. In this play,Corvino, Corbaccio, and Voltore are all tricked by Mosca into bestowing gifts on the title Venetian, whopretends to be on his deathbed. For 10 points, name this Ben Jonson comedy about a man labeled "the fox."
Volpone
7

112598-)
This character jokingly asks if a slave for sale is a master thief upon hearing his price. He instructsanother character, "First, be thou void of these affections: compassion, love, vain hope, and heartless fear."This character's monologues include one beginning, "As for myself, I walk abroad a-nights and kill sickpeople groaning under walls." In his first appearance, he imagines the prospect of "infinite riches in a littleroom." This character is boiled in a cauldron by Ferneze, and he poisons his daughter Abigail after sheconverts to Christianity. For 10 points, name this title character of The Jew of Malta.
Barabas [prompt on the Jew of Malta before it is read]
7

112627-)
This poet was brought to fame by a poem whose last stanza declares "the worst of woes" to be "to vieweach loved one blotted from life's page, and be alone on earth, as I am now." In another poem, hecompared the glinting of spears to "stars on the sea, when the blue wave rolls nightly on deep Galilee." Hismost famous lyric mentions "a mind at peace with all below, a heart whose love is innocent" in describinga woman "like the night of cloudless climes and starry skies." For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of"The Destruction of Sennacherib," Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and "She Walks in Beauty."
Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron]
7

112655-)
The same year that this writer was diagnosed with cancer, she wrote a thorough verse-by-verseexamination of the Book of Revelation. This author wrote a love poem that concludes that "Better by faryou should forget and smile than that you should remember and be sad" and another work which states that"there is no friend like a sister in calm or stormy weather." This author of The Face of the Deep wrote thelyrics to the carol "In the Bleak Midwinter" and was criticized for the erotic imagery of a girl eating pulpoff of her sister's body in a poem in which a lock of hair is offered to a group of disgusting fruit-purveyorswho repeat, "come buy, come buy." For 10 points, name this author of "Goblin Market," the sister of thePre-Raphaelite Dante.
Christina Georgina Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti]
7

112660-)
One of his poems concludes by asking, "and in heaven, if I cry to you then, will you hear or know?"This poet wrote, "Thou hast conquered, O pale Galilean, the world has grown grey from thy breath" in apoem beginning, "I have lived long enough, having seen one thing, that love hath an end," and respondingto "the Proclamation in Rome of the Christian Faith." This poet of "The Triumph of Time" elegizedCharles Baudelaire in "Ave Atque Vale." For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of Atalanta in Calydonwho included "Hymn to Proserpine" in his seminal collection Poems and Ballads.
Algernon Charles Swinburne
7

112677-)
An action of this poem's subject is compared to how "a skate's heel sweeps smooth on a bow-bend."The speaker of this poem recalls how "my heart in hiding stirred" for the title figure before ambiguouslyexclaiming, "the achieve of, the mastery of the thing!" This poem concludes by noting how "blue-bleakembersÂ…fall, gall themselves, and gash gold-vermilion," and it begins by stating, "I caught this morningmorning's minion," a "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon." For 10 points, name this sonnet dedicated "To Christour Lord" by Gerard Manley Hopkins.
 "The Windhover"
7

112715-)
When her father goes off to Liverpool, this character asks him for a whip while her brother asks for afiddle. After announcing her planned marriage, this character describes a dream in which she wept uponreaching heaven and was cast out by angry angels. While delirious, this character thinks that her bed is "thefairy cave under Penistone crags" that she visited with a character of whom she says, "He's more myselfthan I am." After her death, her ghost haunts Mr. Lockwood. This character's wildness becomes subduedwhen she goes to Thrushcross Grange and marries Edgar Linton, an act that bereaves the "gipsy boy" shegrew up with. For 10 points, name this love of Heathcliff from Emily Bronte's Wuthering Heights.
Catherine Earnshaw [or Catherine Earnshaw; prompt on Earnshaw]
7

112725-)
The narrator of this work muses that the dome of the British Library looks like a big head. A fictionalnovel in this work is praised as breaking two traditional narrative elements: the sentence and the sequence.That work within this work, which contains the sentence, "Chloe liked Olivia," is a novel entitled Life'sAdventure. This work discusses the androgyny of Marcel Proust and praises Lady Winchilsea and AphraBehn. It imagines the difficulties that would be faced by Shakespeare's fictional sister Judith. This essaytheorizes that five hundred pounds a year and the title space are necessary for female authors. For 10points, name this essay by Virginia Woolf.
 "A Room of One's Own"
7

112745-)
In one work by this man, the protagonist kills a reporter conducting a newspaper contest and marries awaitress to keep her from talking. That novel's title refers to a type of candy whose name "appears at theend of the stick at no matter what point it is broken off." In another of this man's works, the narratordiscusses Pascal with the police officer interrogating him about his role in the murder of the title character,whose innocence the narrator compares to a "dumb leper who has lost his bell." In another work, "thelieutenant" eventually catches the man he is hunting by waiting near a dying American bandit, to whom theprotagonist administers the last rites. For 10 points, name this author of The Quiet American who created anunnamed "whiskey priest" in The Power and the Glory.
Henry Graham Greene
7

112760-)
This character says of his wife, "She loved me for the dangers I had passed, and I loved her that she didpity them." In another scene, he describes a gift created by a two-hundred-year-old sibyl that an Egyptiancharmer gave to his mother. This character compares himself to a "base Indian" who "threw a pearl awayricher than all his tribe" before describing how he took a "circumcised dog" by the throat "and smote himthus." His enemy declares that this man is making the "beast with the two backs" with his wife to enrageBrabantio. His promotion of Michael Cassio angers his lieutenant, who proceeds to turn him againstDesdemona. For 10 points, name this Moor deceived by Iago in a Shakespeare tragedy.
 Othello
7

112804-)
The protagonist of this work has fun instead of an aesthetic experience in a church when hercompanion, the "lady writer" Miss Lavish, wanders off with their Baedeker guidebook. In this work, theprotagonist witnesses a stabbing that results in her photographs of art being ruined by splattered blood. Aman kisses the protagonist after she falls into a bed of violets in this novel, in which Freddy dismisses themedieval-sounding request of Cecil Vyse for his sister's hand. For 10 points, name this novel by E. M.Forster in which Lucy Honeychurch marries George Emerson, who offered her the title location.
A Room with a View
7

112823-)
This author wrote a poem identifying the title virtue with poverty and describing its role in the story ofJonah. This author also wrote a poem in which the narrator learns about the New Jerusalem from a maidenhe identifies with the title lost object. This author of Cleanness and Patience also wrote a poem in whichone title character breaks the rules of a game by keeping a girdle which supposedly grants invulnerability,for which he receives a nick on the neck rather than beheading by the other title character in a confrontationplanned by Morgan le Fay. For 10 points, name this anonymous author of Sir Gawain and the GreenKnight.
The Pearl Poet [or the Gawain Poet before it is read]
7

112835-)
 In this work, Lady Blarney and Miss Carolina Wilhelmina Amelia Skeggs do the bidding of the villain,and Timothy Baxter is another of his henchmen. Mr. Symmonds is an innkeeper in this work, in which thetitle character insults the thrice-married Mr. Wilmot with a lecture on monogamy. One of the titlecharacter's children is tricked by Ephraim Jenkinson into selling a horse for a gross of green spectacles. Inthis novel, Mr. Burchell is revealed to be the uncle of Squire Thornhill, who abducts the title character'sdaughter Olivia to enter into a false marriage. For 10 points, name this novel about the Primrose family,written by Oliver Goldsmith.
The Vicar of Wakefield
7

112860-)
 In one novel by this author, the narrator is angered that his carriage speeds up while he is observing aman mourning a dead ass. One character in another novel by this author gave up buying new horses inorder to pay for a widow to learn to be a midwife. In that novel by this man, the question of Martin Luther'sbirth date is settled by his Christian name. This author of A Sentimental Journey Through France and Italyalso wrote a novel in which the title character's Uncle Toby is obsessed with earthworks. That titlecharacter's nose is crushed at birth by Dr. Slop's forceps. For 10 points, name this author of TristramShandy.
 Laurence Sterne
7

112861-)
The majority of one population described in this work believes in an omnipotent god called Mithras.This work describes the legal system of a Persian people called the Polylerites and details another societywhere households are administrated by Stywards, Bencheaters, and Mayors. At one point in this work, afool angers a friar by suggesting that all beggars be turned into monks and nuns at the table of CardinalMorton. One location in this work has the capital Amaurot and tolerates all religions except for atheism.This work is framed as two letters from its author to Peter Giles describing the travels of RaphaelHythloday, who discovers the title island. For 10 points, name this work by Thomas More, whichostensibly describes an ideal society.
Utopia
7

112882-)
One character in this work views the human mind as a progression from A - Z, but he wishes that he could reach R; later on, he gets angry when Augustus Carmichael asks for a second plate of soup, which occurs after Charles Tansley suggests that women can neither paint nor write. This scene occurs at a party where Paul Rayley proposes to Minta Doyle, but a painter will not marry William Bankes despite the hopes of another character, who dies suddenly as war breaks out while her son Andrew dies in battle. By the end of the work, Lily Briscoe finishes her painting as Camelia and James are taken to the title locale by Mr. Ramsay. FTP, name this stream-of-consciousness novel about a vacation to the title Scottish summer home, a work by Virginia Woolf. 
To the Lighthouse
7

112918-)
The protagonist of this novel spends much of the early chapters traveling on the Great North Road to his family estate. The title character of this novel is married to Helen Campbell and she has Morris executed. The protagonist of this work must recover some of his merchant father William's documents that were stolen by his cousin and he befriends the merchant, Bailie Nicol Jarvie. Late in this novel Andrew Fairservice and the protagonist, Francis Osbaldistone, are arrested while on their way to meet the titular outlaw, who at the end of this novel escapes some soldiers by diving into the river and later kills Rashleigh. Set, like its author's earlier Waverly, during a failed Jacobite rebellion, for ten points, identify this Walter Scott novel about the titular Scottish highwayman. 
Rob Roy 
7

112940-)
The title of this work appears in a note published in a periodical concerned with "Domestic Intelligence," which mentions "a pair of lobsters for breakfast," and some have argued that this work was written by John Oldham, rather than the man considered as its author. A major theme in this work is an argument against the use of humours, and its subject, the author of The Medal of John Bayes, is referred to once as the "Northern Dedicator." The narrator of this work compares the day that he performed for King John of Portugal to the day that this work's title character cut his way "with well-timed oars." At one point in this work, one character says of the title character that "of all my sons is he/ who stands confirmed in full stupidity," and this work is subtitled "A Satire on a True-Blue Protestant Poet." For ten points, identify this mock epic poem which attacks the titular poet as well as Thomas Shadwell, and which was written by John Dryden.
MacFlecknoe
7

112961-)
In this play, Osric invites the protagonist to fence a man with a poisoned sword. The protagonist sends his former friends Rosencrantz and Guildenstern to their deaths, and stabs through a curtain to kill Laertes' father, Polonius. In Elsinore Castle, Gertrude drinks poisoned wine prepared by her husband (*), Claudius. The title character's love interest has a famous mad scene prior to her drowning; that woman is Ophelia. Notable for six soliloquies delivered by the titular Prince of Denmark, name this play, which famously includes the line "To be, or not to be." 
The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark 
2

112980-)
One character in this work brags that he slew nine sea monsters, a feat that cost him the swimming match with Breca. This story opens with a ceremony for the dead king Shield Sheafson [sheld SHEF-sun], one of eventually three funerals. The scop [shop] and narrator tells about the titular character's adventures with (*) Hrunting [hROON-ting], a gift from Unferth. That character passes his crown to Wiglaf after defeating a dragon, 50 years after defending Hrothgar's [h'-RAWTH-gar's] mead hall. Notably translated by Seamus Heaney, name this epic poem about a Geatish slayer of Grendel. 
Beowulf 
2

112988-)
This novel sees Tramecksan and Slamecksan, two political parties, square off in a country that also sees conflict between the Big-Endians and Little-Endians over the proper way to crack an egg. The protagonist of this novel leaves the floating island of Laputa to (*) sail home from Japan before traveling to a land in which peaceful horses govern the brutish Yahoos. Name this novel, in which the titular protagonist is sold to the gigantic queen of Brobdingnag after leaving Lilliput, a satire by Jonathan Swift. 
Gulliver's Travels (or Travels into Several Remote Nations of the World, in Four Parts. By Lemuel Gulliver, First a Surgeon, and then a Captain of several Ships) 
2

113002-)
A writer with this surname employed the everyman farmer Iago in many early poems, but remained obscure until his 1955 collection, introduced by John Betjeman, titled Song at the Year's Turning. A war poet with this surname wrote of "the flowers left thick at nightfall in the wood," and the men "who should have gathered them and will do never again," in his poem "In Memoriam." Another poet with this surname praised writers working "not for ambition or bread... but for the common wages of their most secret heart," and described how "faith in their hands shall snap in two," claiming that "though (*) lovers be lost, love shall not," in a poem with the title defiant refrain. That author with this last name wrote "In my Craft or Sullen Art" and stated that "blind eyes could gaze like meteors and be gay," observing that "their words had forked no lightning," in a poem urging "rage, rage against the dying of the light." For 10 points, give the coincidental surname shared by unrelated poets Edward, R.S., and Dylan, all of whom were Welsh.
Thomas
9

113017-)
A character in this series names a baby by pointing his cigar to the Encyclopedia Britannica entry for Cato Publius Valerius. Another character in this series steals his wife's pearls and moves to South America with his mistress, but sheepishly comes back when he runs out of money. In the third novel from this series, a girl drops her handkerchief on purpose to get the attention of her cousin in a pastry shop. A dog howls over the body of his master, who dies peacefully while sleeping on his favorite chair under an old oak-tree, at the end of this series's first (*) interlude, which spans an Indian summer. This series shocked readers with a subplot in which a man punishes his wife for having an affair with the architect of their house Robin Hill by raping her, traumatizing the architect Bosinney so much that he gets run over by a cab and dies. Irene inherits the money of Old Jolyon in this series, which ends with her leaving her jerkass husband Soames. For 10 points, name this series consisting of the novels The Man of Property, In Chancery, and To Let, a family chronicle by John Galsworthy.
The Forsyte Saga
9

113031-)
The title character of a novel by this author falls deeper in love with her future husband when he goes out of the way to fetch her three difficult-to-reach primroses. One of this author's opening lines informs us that "All true histories contain instruction; though, in some, the treasure may be hard to find." The protagonist of that novel by this author kills a nest full of baby birds to prevent the horrible little boy Tom from torturing them. At the start of this author's most famous novel, a man hits a mounted rival suitor with a (*) whip handle, causing him to fall off his horse. The protagonist of that novel by her marries an alcoholic husband who destroys her art supplies, plays chess with the ill-intentioned Walter Hargrave, and ends up with the narrator Gilbert Markham. In that novel by this author, Helen Graham takes refuge in the title mansion. For 10 points, name this author of Agnes Grey and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall, the least famous of three literary sisters.
Anne Bronte [or Acton Bell; prompt on Bronte; prompt on Bell]   	
9

113033-)
In a poem by this author, the "sheep bell and the linnets" sing between "those two black infinities between which our brief life flashes a moment and goes out." Another of this author's poems describes an entity that "sometimes shoots up taller like an india-rubber ball," and "sometimes gets so little that there's none of him at all." This author ended a collection with an address "To Any Reader" warning them that its subjects cannot be "lured out of this book." This author compared a bed to a boat, and imagined that we visit the "Land of (*) Nod" when we go to sleep, in that collection, which includes his poem "My Shadow." This author's most famous poem declares "this be the verse you grave for me," and ends "Home is the sailor, home from sea, and the hunter home from the hill." One of his novels includes a poem of sorts that goes "Fifteen men on the dead man's chest, Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle of rum!" For 10 points, name this poet of "Requiem" and A Child's Garden of Verses, whose novels include The Master of Ballantrae and Treasure Island.
Robert Louis Stevenson
9

113072-)
The protagonist of this novel has a varicose ulcer above his right ankle and regrets stealing his family's chocolate ration. In this work, Symes and Parsons take part in the Two Minutes' Hate, during which the protagonist meets his lover Julia. Near the end of this work, O'Brien tortures the protagonist with rats in Room 101. Set in a future with (*) Newspeak, Thought Police, and a Ministry of Truth, name this dystopian novel about Winston Smith's experiences with Big Brother in the title year, written by George Orwell. 
1984 
2

113083-)
The protagonist of this novel rejects a proposal after returning from a stay in London with the Gardiners. The rejected proposer then writes a letter exposing Georgiana's plans to elope. Other marital drama in this novel includes Charlotte Lucas's decision to marry a preacher named Collins and Jane's romance with Bingley. Beginning, "a (*) single man in possession of a good fortuneÂ…must be in want of a wife," name this Jane Austen novel about the courtship of Darcy and Elizabeth Bennett. 
Pride and Prejudice 
2

113085-)
The protagonist of this novella remembers his ex-fiancee, Belle, and his sister, Fan, before meeting a guide who keeps Ignorance and Want under his cloak. One of the protagonist's revisited memories takes place in Fezziwig's warehouse, and other scenes in this novella are set at the home of the the (*) Cratchit family. After being visited by three spirits of Christmas, this work's protagonist becomes a patron to the crippled Tiny Tim. Name this Charles Dickens work about the miserly Ebeneezer Scrooge. 
A Christmas Carol 
2

113100-)
The protagonist of this novel attacks his childhood bully with applesauce and dreams that a ghostly hand breaks his window and reaches into his bedroom. The housekeeper Zillah shows kindness to the two narrators of this novel, Lockwood and Nelly Dean, who recount how that protagonist gets revenge by acquiring his bully's estate, (*) Thrushcross Grange. Meanwhile, that bully, Edgar Linton, marries the protagonist's beloved Catherine Earnshaw. Name this Emily Bronte novel about Heathcliff. 
Wuthering Heights 
2

113130-)
In His Last Bow, this character retires to a bee farm and, while disguised as Altamont, holds a chloroform-soaked rag up to Von Bork's face. He may have a crush on "the woman" he met in "The Scandal in Bohemia," (*) Irene Adler, and this character also crusades against the Napoleon of Evil, Professor Moriarty. Name this rational protagonist of the novels A Study in Scarlet and The Hound of the Baskervilles, the detective friend of John H Watson, and brainchild of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. 
Sherlock Holmes 
2

113141-)
Like Samuel Pepys [PEEPS], this author published a work detailing the Great Plague of 1665. This author of A Journal of the Plague Year wrote a novel about a woman whose misfortunes include twelve years of whoredom and a marriage to her own brother. His most famous protagonist tricks a group of mutineers, resulting in the end of an ordeal inspired by the story of Alexander (*) Selkirk, although Selkirk did not befriend a prisoner of cannibals, Friday. Name this English novelist of Moll Flanders and Robinson Crusoe. 
Daniel Defoe [or Daniel Foe] 
2

113162-)
One character in this work has a sore on his leg, and another tells a story about the rooster Chanticleer. One episode in this work concerns three young men who murder each other for sacks of gold while attempting to kill Death, while another story concerns a knight who must marry a hag who tells him what (*) women want in marriage. Including tales told by the Nun's Priest, the Pardoner, and the Wife of Bath, identify this Middle English poem in which twenty-nine pilgrims travel to the shrine of Saint Thomas Becket, a work by Geoffrey Chaucer. 
The Canterbury Tales 
2

113175-)
This author wrote a novel in which Keawe finds a wish-granting being in a vessel that he must resell for less than he bought it. This author of the The Bottle Imp and The Master of Ballantrae wrote a novel in which Alan Breck Stewart encounters Ebenezer's nephew, David Balfour. In his most famous novel, the hermit Ben (*) Gunn possesses Flint's gold, much to the surprise of Jim Hawkins and Long John Silver. Name this Scottish author of Kidnapped, Jekyll and Hyde, and Treasure Island. 
Robert Louis Stevenson 
2

113201-)
This person has thrice tweeted that "pen and paper are my priority at the moment." Asha, Altheda, and Amata are characters in one work by this author; another work, which includes the chapter "Shell Cottage," includes the Peverell brothers. To gain immortality, her most famous villain seeks to create (*) horcruxes, the last of which is killed by Neville Longbottom. Name this author, who created the words "expelliarmus" and "Quidditch" in her series of books about Harry Potter. 
(Joanne) J.K. Rowling
2

113203-)
This author's novels include one whose title character transforms into a woman in Constantinople, and another in which Florinda and Clara Durrant describe the title man. In addition to Orlando: A Biography and Jacob's Room, this author wrote a novel in which Septimus commits suicide by defenestration and Peter Walsh attends Clarissa's dinner party. Another novel sees (*) Mrs. Ramsay die in a section titled "Time Passes." Famous for the feminist essay "A Room of One's Own," Name this British author of Mrs. Dalloway and To the Lighthouse. 
Virginia Stephen Woolf 
2

113244-)
This author referenced "vain deluding joys" in a work addressed to a goddess of melancholy. In addition to Il Pensoroso, this author of Lycidas wrote a work that features the palace Pandemonium and which was followed a by a sequel in which the title place is (*) Regain'd. That work by this author concerns "man's first disobedience" and sees Beelzebub convince Lucifer to tempt Adam and Eve after he is exiled in Hell for a failed rebellion against God. Name this blind British poet of the 1600s who wrote the epic poem Paradise Lost.  
John Milton 
2

113267-)
In one novel, he wrote about the captain of the Sephora who is tricked out of finding Leggatt, and in another, SenÃ³r Gould gives away a Costaguana gold mine. Chinua Achebe called this author of The Secret Sharer a racist, and Jewel falls in love with the chief mate of the Patna who moves to Patusan. In one novella, Charlie Marlowe travels through the (*) Belgian Congo to meet an ivory trader whose last words were "The horror, the horror!" Name this Polish-born author of Nostromo, Lord Jim, and Heart of Darkness. 
Joseph Conrad 
2

113279-)
In this work, Trinculo steals some clothes, and the lyrics "full fathom five" are sung by a character who was imprisoned by Sycorax. This play's title event leaves Antonio and Alonso at the mercy of a character who controls (*) Caliban and Ariel and attempts to get Ferdinand to marry his daughter, Miranda. The deposed Duke of Milan, Prospero, engages in sorcery in, for 10 points, which Shakepeare play?
The Tempest
2

113304-)
"Orgy-porgy" and "Centrifugal Bumble-Puppy" are activities in this book. In this novel, Helmholtz Watson is sent to the Falkland Islands. Another character hangs himself after he rejects Lenina and argues with (*) Mustafa Mond. Though Bernard Marx is an alpha in this novel, he is small and feels inadequate. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel in which John the Savage visits London in 632 "After Ford," a work by Aldous Huxley.
Brave New World
2

113312-)
One person with this name composed the verse novel Aurora Leigh. Another poet with this name wrote The Ring and the Book and composed poems about the "Pied Piper of Hamelin" and "Porpheria's Lover." One person with this name wrote (*) "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways" in Sonnets from the Portuguese, and another composed My Last Duchess. For 10 points, give this shared surname of the Romantic poets Elizabeth Barrett and Robert.
Browning (accept Elizabeth Barrett Browning or Robert Browning)
2

113314-)
This poem's title gives its name to a play by Paul Theroux that fictionalizes the author's humiliating final days as an American resident. It lists "the tale of common things," the "ports ye shall not enter" and "the roads ye shall not tread" as things the addressee should "go mark them with your living, and mark them with your dead." It promises "the lightly proffered laurel, the easy ungrudged praise" and "the judgment of your peers" in the final stanza of this poem, which calls Filipinos "fluttered folk and wildÂ—your new-caught, sullen peoples, half-devil and half-child." Repeatedly urging the addressee to "take up" the title idea, this is, for 10 points, what poem that gestures the United States towards imperialism, which was written by Rudyard Kipling?
"The White Man's Burden"
7

113338-)
n the book's first chapter, we learn that this character, the son of Kreutznaer, has a brother who was a lieutenant-colonel that was killed at the Battle of Dunkirk. While dying of thirst, this character has a hallucination in which a man on a black cloud on a great flame that tells him he has not repented. This character's detailed diary discusses how he digs an underground cave for his goats and how he made candles from goat grease. At the end of the book, he attacks a bunch of wolves with a travelling companion in the Pyrenees after he travels to Lisbon and discovers that he has accrued much wealth; that character is a former cannibal he meets while on an "island of despair" in the Oronoco. Alexander Selkirk inspired, for 10 points, what character who meets his companion Friday after he is shipwrecked in a novel by Daniel Defoe?
Robinson Crusoe [Accept either]
7

113374-)
A kiss in this poem is compared to a "watch-tower of a town which an earthquake shatters down." In a suggestive stanza, one of its speakers asks "Did you miss me? Come and kiss me. Never mind my bruises, hug me, kiss me, suck my juices." Another stanza of this poem begins "One may lead a horse to water, twenty cannot make him drink." This poem ends with the advice "For there is no friend like a sister in calm or stormy weather," and it warns the reader with the story of Jeanie, who wore the flowers of the title figures as she"pined and pined away." In this poem's first stanza, two maidens hear merchants cry "Come buy our orchard fruits, / Come buy, come buy." For 10 points, name this poem in which Lizzie and Laura are tempted to purchase fruit from the title creatures, a poem by Christina Rossetti.
"Goblin Market"
7

113380-)
This novel ends with a character repeatedly contemplating whether the action of a woman drowning herself in the English Channel, leaving behind only her wedding ring, is an "act of madness or despair." In another scene of this novel, a man with a hook for a hand who drives a hansom cab incites fear in its protagonist. Its title character produces pamphlets titled "The Future of the Proletariat," and has frequent anarchist meetings with Ossipon and The Professor. That main character is stabbed to death by his wife Winnie after he accidentally kills her brother, the mentally challenged Stevie. Chief Inspector Heat investigates Adolf Verloc for blowing up Greenwich Observatory, in, for 10 points, what Joseph Conrad novel about espionage?
The Secret Agent
7

113416-)
The narrator of this work teases that there is a great mystery in the number of times the letter "O" appears in it, multiplied by seven and divided by nine, challenging princes to lock seven scholars up for seven years so that they can write seven commentaries on this text. This work discusses how a great prince turned into a tyrant when the capture of his lover by an enemy caused his disused semen to build up, ascend his body, and infect his brain, in its oft-excerpted "Digression on Madness." In the preface to this work, its narrator describes the maritime custom of throwing the title object toward a whale, symbolic of the Hobbes's Leviathan, to divert its attention from boats. Peer pressure forces the main characters of this work to add shoulder-knots, silver fringes, Indian figures, and other silly ornaments to the marvelous (*) coats that they inherit. This work's three main characters, Peter, Martin, and Jack, are stand-ins for Saint Peter, Martin Luther, and John Calvin. For 10 points, name this satire of Christian denominational strife, the first major work by Jonathan Swift.
A Tale of a Tub
9

113435-)
In one of this man's novels, U Po Kyin attempts to discredit Dr. Veraswami. In addition to Homage to Catalonia and Burmese Days, this author wrote a novel which contains "The Book," written by the target of the "Two Minutes of Hate," (*) Emmanuel Goldstein. This author wrote about Julia and Winston Smith, who succumb to this author's omnipresent "Big Brother." For 10 points, name this British author of 1984 and Animal Farm.
George Orwell (or Eric Arthur Blair)
2

113454-)
This literary character plays with Snowdrop and Kitty in one work, in which she learns the definitions of "slithy" [SLY-thee] and "brillig" [BRILL-ig] from Humpty-Dumpty. In another work, she encounters the morose Mock Turtle in a land governed by playing cards after following the (*) White Rabbit. Inspired by Lewis Carroll's friend, Miss Liddell, for 10 points, name this little girl who went Through the Looking Glass and had Adventures in Wonderland.
Alice (accept Alice's Adventures in Wonderland, Alice Liddell or Alice Hargreaves; do not accept or prompt on "Alice in Wonderland," as this title only applies to the Disney film)
2

113468-)
This character meets his closest friend through Stamford, and he was injured in the shoulder in Afghanistan. A modern adaption, in which he is played by Martin Freeman, sees him strapped into a bomb vest by Jim (*) Moriarty, and he was portrayed on film by Jude Law opposite Robert Downey Jr. The inspiration for the character of Dr. James Wilson on House, for 10 points, name this Doyle character, who lives at 221B Baker Street with Sherlock Holmes.
Dr. John H Watson
2

113472-)
In this play, a father sends Reynaldo to France to spy on his son, and "The Murder of Gonzago" is staged to verify one characters guilt. One character drowns under a willow tree after being rejected, and this play ends when the title character kills both (*) Laertes-- Ophelia's brother--and Claudius, who had earlier killed the protagonist's father. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play about the title "prince of Denmark."
The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
2

113495-)
This work's title character falls ill in a prison, under the care of Mr. Kirwin, and Justine Moritz is accused of murdering William. The title man's only mourner tells Robert Walton that he will die in the Arctic. In this novel, (*) Elizabeth is strangled on her wedding night, and Henry Clerval is brutally murdered by the title scientist's creation. For 10 points, name this novel subtitled "The Modern Prometheus," a work by Mary Shelley.
Frankenstein, or The Modern Prometheus
2

113766-)
In this novel, a Christmas guest drinks brandy diluted with tar-water and takes theprotagonist to Satis House. This novel's main character befriends Herbert Pocket aftermoving to London with the help of Mr. (*) Jaggers, who acts as the agent of a mysteriousbenefactor. The jilted Miss Havisham cares for Estella and a convict named Abel Magwich providesfor Philip Pirrip in, for 10 points, what rags-to-riches novel about Pip, written by Charles Dickens?
Great Expectations
2

113783-)
One novel by this author is narrated by Edward Malone, who encounters stegosauruses andpterodactyls in South America with Professor Challenger. This author wrote short stories inwhich a stolen diamond is fed to a goose and Jabez Wilson is employed by the (*) "RedHeadedLeague." He created a character who clashes with Professor Moriarty, and who lives withDr. Watson at 221B Baker Street. For 10 points, name this creator of Sherlock Holmes.
Sir Arthur (Ignatius) Conan Doyle (accept Sir Arthur (Ignatius) Conan Doyle)
2

113798-)
This figure is left in China by his nephew in this character's Farther Adventures, andhe regrets selling a boy named Xury after being rescued from slavery in Salee. Thisman lives for twenty-eight years near the mouth of the Orinoco River, and he isrescued by (*) pirates along with his native servant after being shipwrecked on a desertisland. For 10 points, Daniel Defoe wrote The Life and Strange Surprising Adventures of thisman from York, a companion to Friday
Robinson Crusoe
2

113812-)
In this novel, Maurice de Bracy captures Cedric of Rotherwood and his ward, andBrian de Bois-Guilbert dies of his "contending passions" when he must fight a mandefending the daughter of Isaac of York. The Black Knight reveals that he is King (*)Richard at the end of this novel, and Rebecca visits Lady Rowena after her marriage to thetitle Saxon, Wilfred. For 10 points, name this novel about a title knight written by Sir WalterScott.
 Ivanhoe
2

114033-)
This author described the hidden world of outdated gods in The Long Dark Tea-Time of theSoul, which features holistic detective Dirk Gently. This man created a planet inhabited byflolloping mattresses which is visited by Marvin, a (*) paranoid android who travels with Trillianand Zaphod Beeblebrox. The Vogons destroy Earth shortly after picking up Ford Prefect and ArthurDent in, for 10 points, what author's The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy?
Douglas (Noel) Adams
2

114061-)
In this play a daughter trades her father's ring for a pet monkey. In this play, the Prince ofMorocco declares "Never so rich a gem / Was set in worse than gold" while choosing fromamong three caskets. Nerissa and her mistress dress as men during a trial, and (*) Bassanioasks Antonio for money so that he can court Portia in this play. For 10 points name thisShakespeare play in which the Jew Shylock tries to take a pound of flesh from the title character.
The Merchant of Venice
2

114075-)
This author's poems read, "They're changing the guard at Buckingham Palace" and,"Halfway down the stairs is a stair where I sit. There isn't any other stair quite like it." Talesby this author see a group of friends go on an "expotition" to the North Pole and fall into atrap set for a (*) "heffalump;" those tales are illustrated by E.H. Shephard. For 10 points, name thisauthor who entertained his son, Christopher Robin, with stories of Winnie-the-Pooh.
 A(lan) A(lexander) Milne
2

114148-)
This novel satirizes the British Empire by imagining one of its mean spirited characters as the Collector of Boggeley Wallah. In this novel's chapter "In Which We Enjoy Three Courses and a Dessert," the ladies of Gaunt House, including Lady Bareacres, are bullied into sending a dinner invitation to a low-class woman. A woman in this novel has an affair with the Marquis of Steyne and is later introduced to the Prince Regent by the marquis, and she later takes out a life insurance policy on Jos after separating from her husband Rawdon Crawley; that woman, Becky Sharp, is contrasted with the rich Amelia Sedley. For 10 points, name this "novel without a hero", the masterpiece of William Thackeray.
Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero
7

114170-)
This work relates the tale of Belphoebe, a woman who was born after her mother is impregnated by the rays of the sun. In that section of this work, Diana takes Belphoebe to "the first seminary of all things that are born to live and die" called the Garden of Adonis. In a later section, Satyrane finds Florimell's girdle and saves her from a witch. "The ever-whirling wheel of change" is referenced at the beginning of this work's two mutability cantos, which were intended as part of a book on "constancy." Like its author's The Shepherd's Calendar, it features a shepherd named Colin Clout. The third book of this work centers on Lady Britomart, a female knight who embodies chastity. For 10 points, name this long poem featuring the Red Crosse Knight, an incomplete epic poem by Edmund Spenser.
The Faerie Queene
7

114184-)
This character is called a "poor soul" because "his eyes are red as fire with weeping," shortly after another man says "methinks there is much reason in" this character's sayings. This character asks a corpse to pardon him for being "meek and gentle with these butchers." This character calls another character's ingratitude "the most unkindest cut of all" in a speech beginning "if you have tears, prepare to shed them now." This character declares that "the evil that men do lives after them" in a speech where he repeatedly calls Brutus an honorable man; that speech begins "friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears." For 10 points, name this character who delivers the funeral oration in Shakespeare's Julius Caesar.
Mark Antony
7

114203-)
While waiting for the arrival of a ship, this character expresses his disdain for women by telling his wife, "You rise to play and go to bed to work." In another speech, this character notes "who steals my purse steals trash; tis something, nothing, 'Twas mine, tis his," but that "he that filches from me my good name Â… makes me poor indeed." In another speech, he describes a feeling that "doth mock the meat it feeds on" that is a "green-ey'd monster" that is named jealousy. In one scheme, this man has his wife Emilia steal a handkerchief. Michael Cassio ends the play by suggesting that this character will be tortured; earlier he schemes to frame Brabantio's daughter Desdemona for being unfaithful. For 10 points, name this standard-bearer and antagonist to Shakespeare's Othello.
Iago
7

114219-)
An essay by this writer concludes that Leo Tolstoy disliked the works of William Shakespeare because of the former's religious attitude toward life. Another essay by him discusses his childhood experiences at St. Cyprian's. This author of "Such, Such Were the Joys" warned against "dying metaphors" in a work that translates a passage of Ecclesiastes into modern English of the worst sort. The protagonist of one of his novels is told "if you want a vision of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face forever." The protagonist of that novel by this author of "Politics and the English Language" is ratted out by Mr. Charrington and is taken to Ministry of Truth where is tortured by O'Brien. For 10 points, name this English essayist who created Winston Smith in 1984.
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]
7

114221-)
This author exposed the fraudulence of a seance led by Daniel Dunglas Home, who became the target of his mocking poem "Mr. Sludge, the Medium". The speaker of one of his poems claims to drink orange juice in three sips to frustrate Arians, and mentions the "twenty-nine distinct damnations" found in a "text in Galatians" . That poem by this man opens with the line "Gr-r-r--there go, my heart's abhorrence" and details its speaker's plots against Brother Lawrence. The line "The rain set in early tonight" begins a poem by this man whose speaker notes God's silence after strangling a woman with her own hair. In his most famous poem, the speaker hints at the murder of a woman with a heart "too soon made glad". For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister", "Porphyria's Lover", and "My Last Duchess".
Robert Browning
7

114229-)
A character in this book is about to be executed, but a birthmark that resembles a bloody arrow under his shoulder reveals him to be the son of a priest. Another character in this book recounts how he got a big-ass sword when a dying hermit near Joppa instructed him to dig underneath the seventh tree to the left of a cave. It was supposedly translated into English by William Marshall, based off of the original work of Onuphrio Muralto. This work opens on the wedding day of Isabella and Conrad, who is killed by a falling helmet. Father Jerome's son ends up marrying the daughter of the Knight of the Gigantic Sabre in this novel, who possesses a sword with an inscription demanding the blood of Manfred to atone for his sins. For 10 points, identify this early Gothic novel by Horace Walpole.
The Castle of Otranto
7

114240-)
In a novel by this author, Prince Ping Pong Pang, Grand Duke Vodkakoff and the Mad Mullah invade Britain, but they are thwarted by a boy scout named Clarence Chugwater. This author, who satirized the genre of invasion literature in The Swoop, never returned to his country of birth after he delivered a series of radio broadcasts from Germany during World War 2. He wrote novels in which George Cyril Wellbeloved abandons his master to protect the Queen of Matchinham, who is owned by Sir Gregory Parsloe-Parsloe. This author's recurring characters include Clarence Threepwood, the Lord of Emsworth that owns a pig named the Empress of Blandings, as well Rupert Psmith and Sir Bertie Wooster. For 10 points, name this comical author who created the butler Jeeves.
Sir Pelham Grenville Wodehouse
7

114251-)
One line in this poem notes that "the Queen Moon sits on her throne." The speaker of this poem speaks of his desire of a "Provencal vintage" that would turn his mouth purple, and later draws a parallel to Ruth, who "stood in tears among alien corn." Another moment in this poem occurs when the speaker hears the word "forlorn", which he says is "like a bell to toll me back from thee." The speaker says that he "had been half in love with easeful death" and notes to the subject that "to thy high requiem I am become a sod." In the last stanza of this poem, the speaker wonders "was it a vision, or a waking dream" and "do I wake or sleep?" For ten points, identify this poem which describes the feelings brought on by the title bird, an Ode by John Keats.
"Ode to a Nightingale"
7

114267-)
This author is convinced by another to publish his work in The Hydra in Pat Barker's novel Regeneration. In real life, this author claimed that "Neither should I go fooling over clouds / Following gleams unsafe, untrue" in one work, while the line "Whatever shares / The eternal reciprocity of tears" ends another of his works. This author of "Six o'clock in Princes Street" and "Insensibility" also wrote a work in which a ram is "caught in the thicket by its horns" as it describes the near-sacrifice of Isaac. This author of "Futility" and "Strange Meeting" also wrote a work which opens with "What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?" and was named by Siegfried Sassoon, as well as another which ends by describing "the old Lie" as told by Horace. FTP, name this English poet of "The Parable of the Old Man and the Young," "Anthem for Doomed Youth," and "Dulce et Decorum Est."
Wilfred Owen
7

114284-)
Vivian Bearing, the protagonist of Margaret Edson's play W;t [wit], is a scholar of this set of works and has published a work on criticism titled after its fifth member. Its author asks the Jews to "spit in my face" in one part, while other parts ask "if lecherous goatsÂ… cannot be damned, alas! Why should I?" and instruct angels to blow their trumpets "at the round earth's corners." The line "I am a little world made cunningly" opens one part of this work, whose fourteenth part asks a "three-person'd God" to "batter my heart." The main entity is described as the "slave to Fate, chance, kings, and desperate men" in its most famous section, the tenth. FTP, name this sequence of nineteen poems, the most famous of which begins with, "Death, be not proud," written by John Donne.
Holy Sonnets [accept "Death, be not proud" before "set"]
7

114285-)
The protagonist of this novel recalls how earlier that morning, she had confused Francesco Francia with Piero della Francesca, while seeing a copy of Under a Loggia. Written under the name of "Joseph Emery Prank" by Mrs. Lavish, it was being read by one character in the garden of Windy Corner as he watched Freddy and others play tennis. However, it is later in that day that one character, inspired by a previous encounter in the Fiesole hills, kisses her once again, and later that character breaks off her engagement with Cecil Vyse. Despite her distress that Mr. Emerson knows about her love for his son, Lucy Honeychurch marries George Emerson, whom she had met earlier in Florence, at the end of, FTP, which novel by E. M. Forster?
A Room with a View
7

114302-)
This writer wrote a book in which a woman cross-dresses while traveling to Douglasdale with her minstrel Bertram so that she can live at the Convent of St. Bride. In that novel by this author, Lady Augusta promises to marry John de Walton if he can maintain the title castle for a year and a day. In another of his novels, Rashleigh is cut out of his father's will, which causes him to steal some documents that besmirch Sir Frederick's name. In another novel by this author of Castle Dangerous, the title character falls in love with Diana Vernon while staying with his uncle Sir Hildebrand. That book tells of Frank Osbaldistone during the Jacobite Uprising. For 10 points, name this author of Rob Roy whose Tales of My Landlord series includes Waverley.
Sir Walter Scott
7

114355-)
The title location of one poem by this author is "filled with graves, and tomb-stones where flowers should be: and priests in black gowns." The first poem in that collection by this author states "I hear the Father of the ancient men" and opens "Earth rais'd up her head, From the darkness dread and drear." This author of "The Garden of Love" and "Earth's Answer" wrote another work about an animal that "found out thy bed of crimson joy, and his dark secret love does thy life destroy." The speaker of another of his poems asks "What the hammer? what the chain, in what furnace was thy brain?"; that poem asks "What immortal hand or eye, dare frame thy fearful symmetry?" For 10 points, name this author whose Songs of Experience contains "The Sick Rose" and "The Tyger."
William Blake
7

114382-)
This character is rescued by Don Pedro de Menez, and learns about the awfulness of the immortal but senile struldbrugs. This man is mistaken for a Yahoo by the Houyhnhnms [hoo-IN-hin-ums], and is kept as a pet in (*) Brobdingnag. This sailor observes a conflict between Big-Endians and Little-Endians in Blefuscu and Lilliput, nations of tiny people. For 10 points, identify this character whose namesake "Travels" appear in a book by Jonathan Swift.
Lemuel Gulliver
2

114400-)
In one of this author's novels, Little Father Time hangs himself and two of Sue Bridehead's children. In one novel, this author described a love quadrilateral of Thomasin and Clym Yeobright, Damon Wildeve, and (*) Eustacia Vye. This author wrote about a milkmaid who murders Alec and is in love with Angel Clare. For 10 points, identify this British author of Jude the Obscure, The Return of the Native, and Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
2

114414-)
In this novel, Merridew objects to being given a "kid's name." A man killed in an unseen air battle is blown out to sea by his parachute after frightening "Sam'n'eric," and Simon is mistaken for a "beast" after hallucinating near a sacrificial (*) pig's head in this novel. The conch shell is crushed by a boulder that also kills Piggy when he tries to defend Ralph against Jack in, for 10 points, what novel about a group of stranded boys, written by William Golding?
Lord of the Flies
2

114427-)
In one work by this author, the protagonist refuses Mr. Elton's advances and opposes a match between Robert Martin and Harriet Smith. Another novel by this author sees Colonel Brandon wed Marianne (*) Dashwood. Lady Susan is an early work by this author, who wrote a novel in which Charles Bingley's friend, Mr.Darcy, falls for Elizabeth Bennett. For 10 points, name this author of Emma, Sense and Sensibility, and Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen
2

114438-)
In one of this man's poems, the speaker strangles the title character with "one long yellow string" of her hair. He also wrote a poem about a woman who was not impressed with the speaker's gift of a "nine-hundred-years-old name." This poet of (*) "Pipa Passes" and "Porphyria's Lover" wrote about FrÃ  Pandolf's painting of a woman who was "too easily impressed." For 10 points, name this British poet of "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning
2

114457-)
Multiple members of this profession identified Lord Arthur Somerset in the Cleveland Street Scandal, and appear in a novel published under the pseudonym "Jack Saul." In 1993, a mass grave consisting of 133 corpses from members of this profession was discovered in Dublin. William Acton produced a landmark 1857 study on workers in this profession. These people were targeted by a series of laws passed in 1864, 1866, and 1869, which forced many of them to be placed in lock hospitals. William (*) Gladstone personally donated large sums of money to reduce the number of people working in this profession. Many members of this profession were committed to Magdalene laundries. Josephine Butler actively campaigned on behalf of workers in this profession, five of whom were the universally-acknowledged victims of Jack the Ripper. For 10 points, name this profession in Victorian England, held by lower-class women subject to the Contagious Diseases Act.
prostitutes [accept less polite synonyms]
9

114473-)
One character in this play muses "Life's but a walking shadow" in his "Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow" speech. One woman in this play sleepwalks and washes invisible blood off her hand. Three witches tell the title character he will be (*) king, leading him to kill Banquo and Duncan and be killed by a man "not of woman born," Macduff. For 10 points, identify this Shakespearean tragedy about the title murderous king of Scotland.
Macbeth (prompt on "The Scottish Play")
2

114488-)
The protagonist of this work becomes king following the death of Hygelac's[HIGG-eh-lack's] son and wins a swimming contest with Breca. This poem's title character fights a dragon with Wiglaf and battles a monster's (*) mother at the bottom of the sea. In this epic poem, the title Geat ["gate"] defends King Hrothgar's [hROTH-gahr's] mead hall, Heorot [HAY-oh-roht], against a descendent of Cain. For 10 points, name this Old English epic poem about a warrior who slays Grendel.
Beowulf
2

114495-)
According to a nonfiction account, rheumatism is common among inhabitants of these islands who use sea water to wash their clothes. Residents of these islands wear a moccasin-like shoe made from untanned cowhide, known as a pampootie. The director of Nanook of the North produced an equally fraudulent 1934 documentary about these islands, which fabricates the islanders' practice of hunting sharks for liver oil. These islands lend their name to a style of waterproof sweater with intricate basket, diamond, honeycomb, or cable stitches. Dun (*) Aengus is the best known of the many prehistoric hill forts on these islands. A cripple and a lieutenant star in a trilogy of plays about these islands by Martin McDonagh. J.M. Synge wrote an account of his life on these islands, the setting of his play Riders to the Sea. These islands are found at the mouth of Galway Bay, and their names are Inisheer, Inishmaan, and Inishmore. For 10 points, name these three islands located off the west coast of Ireland.
Aran Islands
9

114517-)
In a play by this author, a woman sings "Nearer My God, Thee" as the curtain closes over the corpse of a man she had strangled in a greenhouse. This playwright created an unhinged character who unpacks a tea set, then douses the straw from the package with kerosene to start a fire in her own house. A short play by this author ends with a woman frantically hiding a box in her coat just as the doorknob turns. The Orange Tree Theater, known for championing this author's plays, premiered her posthumously-published play Springs Eternal. Elsa Stanhope resolves to publish the long-withheld poetry of her aunt in a Pulitzer-winning play by this author. In her most famous play, Henry Peters and Lewis Hale ignore the (*) "kitchen things" in a crime scene, which is where their wives discover a canary with its neck broken in the same manner as the murder victim John Wright. She adapted that play into her story "A Jury of Her Peers." For 10 points, name this author of Alison's House and Trifles, who scouted out Eugene O'Neill as founder of the Provincetown Players.
 Susan Glaspell [or Susan Keating Glaspell]
9

114523-)
A man of this profession loses a contest in which he conjures the tree that guards the Garden of the Hesperides, but his opponent Vandermast summons Hercules to chop the tree down. In the same play, another man of this profession creates a gigantic head that intones "Time is," "time was," and "time has been," that he hopes will raise a wall of brass around England. A character of this profession describes "fire and powder / which as they kiss consume," and advises: " love moderately; long love doth so; Too swift arrives as tardy as too slow." Ithamore calls two men of this profession "caterpillars," in a scene in which one of them lays the charge "Thou hast committed," which (*) Barabbas interrupts with "fornication? But that was in another country; And besides the wench is dead." A character of this profession named Francis suggests that Leonato spread the false rumor that Hero has died of grief, in Much Ado About Nothing. The most famous Shakespearean character of this profession gives a soliloquy comparing plants to humans, and gives a woman a vial to fake her death, causing her lover to poison himself, which in turn makes her stab herself. For 10 points, name this profession of Laurence, the adviser to Romeo and Juliet.
friar
9

114533-)
In a novel by this author, just at the point when John Wesley is about to be saved from Native Americans by a cowgirl, a movie theater loses electricity. A woman surrounds herself with a coterie of angel wing-wearing girls who are given names such as Temperance and Chastity, in that novel by him. In a moving scene from a novel by this author, a man who had abandoned his faith to live with his mistress Cara in Venice makes the sign of the cross on his deathbed to return the Catholic fold. The protagonist of another novel by this author gets duped into buying gold ore by the German prospector's wife Katchen, and convinces his uncle to impersonate him at a banquet held by Lord (*) Copper, so that he can retire to a quiet life at Boot Magna . A character from this author's best-known novel breaks a tiny bone in his foot while playing croquet and, well into his adulthood, carries around the teddy bear Aloysius. In that novel by him, Lord Marchmain's son Sebastian Flyte first meets Charles Ryder at Oxford. For 10 points, name this author of Vile Bodies, Scoop, and Brideshead Revisited.
Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh; accept the hell out of He-Evelyn]
9

114554-)
Low winds mirror the foul mood of this opera's protagonist as he pouts about a "thieving world, knavish world, wicked world." In this last act of this opera, a man sings that "a mouth once kissed loses not its future," and his offstage lover adds "rather, it renews itself like the moon." The librettist of this opera invented new words such as "sugliardo" and "falsardo" for Act II, scene II, during which the title character endures sixty-four lines of insults. This opera ends with an explosive grand chorus in which the protagonist proclaims that "Everything in the world is a jest." The protagonist of this opera meets up with a woman strumming a lute and recalls when he was (*) slimmer in his light-hearted aria "Quand'ero paggio," and he had earlier rejoiced about his apparent romantic success with the aria "Va vecchio, John." In this opera, Nanetta and Fenton share an intimate moment while Mistress Quickly and Mistress Ford stuff the title character into a laundry hamper. For 10 points, name this adaptation of Shakespeare's Henry IV and The Merry Wives of Windsor, composed by Verdi
Falstaff
9

114557-)
This character lists anger, woe, a constellation, wine, sickness, or a change in humors as legitimate reasons for men to err, arguing that it's pointless to avenge every wrong. This man, described as a son of Epicurus, is said to live in a house where it snowed food and drink. This character explains that he only knows colors used to paint, not colors of rhetoric, in an entreaty to the audience to excuse his ignorant speech, despite his clear familiarity the classics, as in his inclusion of a lengthy prayer to Apollo and Lucina, as well as his mention of Hasdrubal's wife and Lucretia as examples of women who killed themselves to avoid dishonor. This character laments the gambling problem of his (*) son after interrupting the Squire, then tells his own story, in which a magician clears the black rocks of Brittany, compelling Dorigen to honor her promise to love Aurelius, that she had made when her husband Arveragus was away. For 10 points, name this Canterbury pilgrim, a self-effacing wealthy landowner.
The Franklin
9

114567-)
A woman whose husband belonged to this group inflicted a wound with a barber's knife on her thigh to rehearse her eventual suicide. A financial backer of this group beat a hasty retreat to assume his post of Proconsul of Asia, but was shortly thereafter killed by Publius Cornelius Dolabella. The fullest list of this group's members can be found at the end of Book 2 of Appian. This group acted four days before a planned expedition against Parthia. A member of this group presented a petition to recall his exiled brother, which was dismissed, prompting him to (*) grab a man's shoulders and pull down his tunic. This group, which styled themselves "the Liberatores," included noted villain Casca, who drew first blood near the Theater of Pompey, as well as two men who committed suicide after losing the Battle of Philippi, one of whom was asked "kai su, teknon?," and not, as commonly believed, "Et tu?" For 10 points, name this group led by Cassius and Brutus, who masterminded a murder on the Ides of March
assassins of Caesar [or synonyms; or Caesar conspirators or synonyms; accept Liberators or Liberatores before it is read]
9

114579-)
This character fantasizes about emerging from his lover's bed wearing a "branched velvet gown," and sending seven servants to greet a visitor as he winds his watch or plays with his jewelry. This man is ridiculed for disavowing Pythagoras's belief that a human soul might as well inhabit the body of a bird. He speaks the innuendo-laced line "these be her C's, her U's, and her T's and thus makes she her great P's," and exits with the ominous line "I'll be revenged on the whole pack of you." Because this character smiles frequently, wears yellow stockings, and appears cross-gartered, he is deemed a lunatic and locked in a dark chamber where the sham (*) priest Sir Topas visits him. This man reads aloud from a letter assuring him that "some are born great, some achieve greatness, and some have greatness thrust upon them." The maid Maria conspires with Sir Andrew Aguecheek, Feste the Jester, and Sir Toby Belch to dupe this fun-hating character into thinking that his employer loves him. For 10 points, name this tormented steward of Olivia in Twelfth Night.
Malvolio
9

114604-)
The speaker of one of this man's poems describes "the latest dream I ever dream'd" where he saw "pale kings and princes too" who cried "La Belle Dame sans Merci / Hath thee in thrall." He wrote "My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains my sense" in a poem to a creature (*) "not born for death," and concluded that "Beauty is truth, truth beauty." For 10 points, identify this English poet of "Ode to a Nightingale" and "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
John Keats
2

114630-)
One author with this surname wrote a novel in which a clergyman's daughter works for the Bloomfield and Murray families, and another described the death of Helen Burns at Lowood. (*) Agnes Grey is a work by one of these authors, whose sister wrote about Catherine Earnshaw's doomed love for Heathcliff. For 10 points, name these literary sisters, including Emily and Charlotte, whose collective novels include Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights.
Bronte sisters (accept the Bronte family or equivalents; accept Anne Bronte, Charlotte Bronte, and/or Emily Bronte«; prompt on Acton, Ellis, and/or Currer Bell)
2

114636-)
This work begins by invoking a "Heav'nly Muse" from "the secret top of Oreb or of Sinai." Its antagonist works with Mammon and Beelzebub to build Pandemonium, and claims it is "better to (*) reign in Hell than serve in Heaven." Written to "justify the ways of God to men," this work details "man's first disobedience," caused by a fallen angel, Lucifer. For 10 points, name this work about the expulsion from the Garden of Eden, an epic poem by John Milton.
Paradise Lost
2

114655-)
In this work, a hospital purchases a van belonging to Alfred Simmonds, but never repaints it. Moses dreams of Sugarcandy Mountain, and revolution is stirred in this novel with the song "Beasts of England." "I will work harder" is (*) Boxer's solution for everything, and the less intelligent sheep only repeat "Four legs good, two legs bad." For 10 points, identify this Stalinist allegory about Napoleon and Snowball, a novel by George Orwell.
Animal Farm
2

114675-)
A minor character in this novel suffers a bizarre death when seventeen frozen cows fall on him in a slaughterhouse. In the last scene of this novel, the protagonist is blindfolded and taken to an ice skating rink. The circumstances of the protagonist's birth recur in this novel as a story called "How You Were Left to Your Fate." In this novel, an anti-Islam youth gang known as the Lion Hearts forms in the wake of the 9/11 attacks. This novel is punctuated by occasional letters from the protagonist's sister, recounting her rapid job changes from garment factory worker to prostitute to resident at "Lovely" Begum's house for the destitute. Germaine Greer backed an unsuccessful campaign launched by the (*) Sylheti community to stop a film adaptation of this novel. The protagonist of this novel begins an affair with the man who brings her sewing piecework, Karim, as a means of escaping from her dreary domestic life with her pretentious husband Charu. For 10 points, name this novel about Nazneen, an inhabitant of the title Bangladeshi neighborhood in London, written by Monica Ali.
Brick Lane
9

114683-)
The protagonist of this novel achieves a "Mercutio death" by inserting a tree branch between the guard and the trigger to correct the aim of an unloaded gun he points to his head. A character in this novel demonstrates the cruelty of World War I by asking the protagonist to roll a loaded die and take a cyanide pill if it comes up six. The enthroned protagonist of this novel declines an opportunity to flog the nude psychiatrist Dr. Vanessa Maxwell, who had just given him his psychological profile. In this novel, June Thomas and her schizophrenic identical twin sister Julie masquerade as Rose and Lily de (*) Seitas. This novel ends with the protagonist slapping his Australian girlfriend Alison, leaving her to bow her head in silence. The protagonist of this novel gets drawn into the "Godgame," a series of surreal masques and psychological mind games telling the story of the reclusive millionaire Conchis. For 10 points, name this novel in which the Oxford graduate Nicholas de Urfe accept an English-teaching post in the Aegean, written by John Fowles.
The Magus
9

114710-)
Two travelers created by this author eat a group of sentient oysters and "talk of many things," and a singer created by this man sings about "beautiful Soup" after performing at a Lobster Quadrille. A nonsense poem by this man is explained by (*) Humpty Dumpty, and "The Walrus and the Carpenter" is recited by Tweedledee and Tweedledum in this man's Through the Looking-Glass. For 10 points, name this author of Alice's Adventures in Wonderland.
Lewis Carroll (accept Charles Lutwidge Dodgeson)
2

114755-)
In a running gag from this novel, amateurish poems written by the protagonist keep falling out of his journals and books. Its protagonist attends a church service unusually held in the catacombs, when a stranger comes up behind him and whispers "You are in danger in this city." In this novel, a hostage who is executed by drowning in a lake turns out to be the same man who had accused the protagonist of pilfering money from his portmanteau. The antagonist of this novel is first met at a fox-hunt, and is nearly killed in a duel by the protagonist after being discovered embezzling funds from Mr. Tresham. The comic relief in this novel is provided by the magistrate (*) Baillie Jarvie and the gardener Andrew Fairservice. The title character of this novel is saved by his ruthless wife Helen, and kills Rashleigh after strategically altering Sir Hildebrand's will so that the protagonist inherits his father's estate. The protagonist of this novel marries his cousin "Die," or Diana, Vernon. For 10 points, name this novel in which Frank Osbaldistone crosses paths with the title outlaw, written by Sir Walter Scott.
Rob Roy
9

114773-)
In this work, Messua [meh-soo-ah] takes in a young boy to replace her long-lost son, Nathoo [nah-too]; that boy, nicknamed "the frog," was earlier pursued by Lungri [loon-gree], the "lame one," and was saved by Akela [ah-kay-lah] and Raksha, the Mother (*) Wolf. Nag and Nagaina [nah-gah-ee-nah] are killed by a mongoose in one story from this collection, and another tale sees Shere Khan [shayr kahn] chased off by the man cub, Mowgli. For 10 points, name this Indian-inspired collection by Rudyard Kipling.
The Jungle Book
2

114784-)
The protagonist of this play comments "That certainly was a maudlin display" after being handed a popsicle and being called a sweetheart. The opening monologue of this play deconstructs the greeting "Hi, how are you feeling today?" The protagonist of this play realizes her calling in life when, as a five-year old, she read her father a Beatrix Potter fable and fell in love with the word "soporific," mirroring a later scene in which a man reads The Runaway Bunny to her. Near the end of this play, which was adapted into a film by Mike Nichols with (*) Emma Thompson in the lead role, Jason Posner tries to resuscitate the main character despite the "do not resuscitate" note on her chart. Throughout this play, the main character recites "Death be not proud" and other Holy Sonnets by Donne as a means of coping with treatment for stage IV metastatic ovarian cancer. For 10 points, name this one-act play about the terminally-ill English professor Vivian Bearing, which won the 1999 Pulitzer for its author Margaret Edson
Wit
9

114798-)
A place of this type gets into financial trouble when a scheme to mine gold under a virgin gold forest in Costa Rica is exposed. In a novel with this setting, a man moves into his girlfriend's place after a passing airliner ejects the shit from its toilet into his apartment. A man televises his threat to kill a duck every day until he receives money in Richard Russo's novel Straight Man, which is set in one of these places. The novels Nice Work,  Small World,  and Changing Places form a "trilogy" of books by (*) David Lodge set in this kind of place. The eponymous Group in Mary McCarthy's novel is formed at one of these places. The protagonist of a novel with this setting falls asleep while smoking a cigarette and burns his lover's bedsheets, dates Christine Callaghan behind the back of her boyfriend Bertrand Welsh, and shows up outrageously drunk to his own lecture on "Merrie England." For 10 points, name this setting of novels such as Lucky Jim, whose protagonist is a medieval history professor.
campus novels [or college; or university; prompt on school]
9

114811-)
In a chapter dedicated to this non-Wallace Stevens poem, Helen Vendler mapped the similarities in word choice between it and Milton's "On the Morning of Christ's Nativity." This poem bombards the reader with sensory detail with its description of a field of "hush'd, cool-rooted flowers, fragrant-eyed, blue, silver-white, and budded Tyrian." The speaker of this poem recalls a time "when holy were the haunted forest boughs, holy the air, the water, and the fire," and offers to be "Thy voice, thy lute, thy pipe, thy incense sweet / From swinged censer teeming." The speaker of this poem predicts that "branched (*) thoughts, new grown with pleasant pain, instead of pines shall murmur in the wind" at the place where he will "build a fane / In some untrodden regions of my mind." The speaker of this poem resolves to keep a casement open at night, "To let the warm love in," and proclaims Phoebe and Vesper to be lower than the title mythological woman on "Olympus' faded hierarchy." For 10 points, name this poem by John Keats, addressed to the lover of Cupid.
Ode to Psyche
9

114813-)
In a dream, the protagonist of this novel sells a casket full of ugly fragments to a crowd of people who transform into businessmen. At the end of this novel, a man takes away the protagonist's newspaper clippings about current world events, like the hydrogen bomb test and the execution of the Rosenbergs. The protagonist of this novel bestows the loving nickname "Mother Sugar" upon her German psychoanalyst. A subplot in this novel that has not aged particularly well concerns Ivor, a homosexual lodger whom the protagonist evicts from her apartment. In this novel, a suicidal character named (*) Tommy is merely blinded after a self-inflicted gunshot to the head. The protagonist of this novel details her life since breaking up with Michael in her autobiographical novel The Shadow of the Third. The frame story of this novel, Free Women, concerns the protagonist and her friend Molly Jacobs, and is punctuated by "red," "blue," "yellow," and "black" diaries. For 10 points, name this novel about Anna Wulf's attempt to synthesize her life experiences into the title memoir, written by Doris Lessing.
The Golden Notebook
9

114835-)
"Calculus racked" and "Tussis attacked" the subject of this author's poem "A Grammarian's Funeral." The subject of one of his poems refers to "a great text in Galatians" which "entails / Twenty-nine distinct damnations" as he condemns the indulgences of Brother Lawrence, while another of his poems begins by exclaiming "Grow old along with me! / The best is yet to be." This author of "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" and "Rabbi Ben Ezra" and the collection Dramatis Personae wrote of someone who "found a thing to do" in strangling the title character with her own hair. His best-known poem reflects on a man with a "nine-hundred-years-old name" who is proud of a statue of "Neptune... taming a sea-horse" by Claus of Innsbruck. FTP, name this poet of "Porphyria's Lover" and "My Last Duchess." 
Robert Browning 
7

114854-)
In the preface to this poem, the author references Theocritus's Idyls in saying that "I shall sing a sweeter song tomorrow, but the to-morrow is yet to come." The poem itself compares "huge fragments" to "rebounding hail, / Or chaffy grain beneath the thresher's flail." The main action of this work is set near "caves of ice" and a "deep romantic chasm" through which the river Alph meanders, and, later on, its poet describes a "damsel with a dulcimer" whose "symphony and song / To such a deep delight 'twould win me;" however, that Abyssinian maid's music contrasts with "ancestral voices prophesying war." A visitor from Porlock interrupted,.FTP, which opium trip of a poem in which "a stately pleasure-dome" is decreed in Xanadu by the titular Mongol emperor, a work of Samuel Taylor Coleridge?  
"Kubla Khan or a Vision in a Dream. A Fragment" 
7

114892-)
This work asserts that is is "not improbable" that a Trojan army led by a "Northern king" "would have driven Agamemnon and Achilles into the sea more decisively than the Greek hexameter routs the alliterative line." Originally delivered as the seventh Israel Gollancz Memorial Lecture, this essay claims that the work it addresses is "wild" only in the sense that King Lear is "silly" and repeatedly critiques the notion that its subject places "the unimportant things at the centre and the important on the outer edges." This work quotes and attacks W.P. Ker's assertion that "there are other things in the lives of Hercules and Thesues besides the killing of the Hydra or of Procrustes," whereas another figure has "nothing else to do." Claiming that "a man might well exchange for one good dragon what he would not sell for a wilderness," this essay notes that there are only two important dragons in all of northern literature, the other being Fafnir. This lecture claims that a certain work ought to be studied to promote "understanding the poem as a poem" rather than as a mere historical or linguistic source and disputes the notion that battles with fantastic creatures render literature unserious. For 10 points, identify this lecture by J.R.R. Tolkien which defends the quality of an anonymous Old English poem.
"Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics"
9

114932-)
The wife of this novel's protagonist has left him for an American, and his financial worries stem from having to care for his teenage daughter, who goes to an expensive Catholic school. At the beginning of the novel, that daughter, Milly, cajoles him into buying her a horse, and it is this additional expense that spurs him to accept an offer of work from Hawthorne. His German friend, Dr. Hasselbacher, advises him to "take their money, but don't give them anything in return," which inspires him to invent reports, agents, and schematics to send to his employers. For 10 points, name this novel, in which James Wormold, a vacuum cleaner salesman from Cuba, is recruited into the British Secret Service, a work by Graham Greene. 
Our Man in Havana 
7

114954-)
One character in this work compares an apple orchard to the Garden of Eden, and several editions have expunged the line "you mustn't let the cat out of the bag about the miller and his wife." Two of the characters in this play make plans to run away to Italy together, and another character makes a joke about being in an outhouse, which e calls a temple. The title character claims that Serena is "the only living thing who loves me since Diana was unfaithful to me!" which is odd, since Diana is a dog and Serena is a canary. Anna, Clara, and Sophie are all named characters who never appear, and near the end of the play, Christine leaves to listen to a sermon on the beheading of John the Baptist. For 10 points, name this play about the valet Jean and the crazy title noblewoman, by August Strindberg.  
Miss Julie [accept Froken Julie] 
7

114965-)
Edward Said claimed in his book Culture and Imperialism that the "dead silence" that arises when she asks her uncle about the slave trade in Antigua is representative of British imperialism, while Lionel Trilling described her in The Moral Obligation to be Intelligent as "overtly virtuous and consciously virtuous," claiming that no one has ever thought it possible to like her. Saying that she "cannot act", she refuses the role of Cottager's Wife in Lovers' Vows, although she helps her cousin Edmund and Mary Crawford rehearse their roles. Henry Crawford makes it his goal to "make a hole in [her] heart," but despite his assistance in helping her brother William obtain his commission, he runs off with Maria after this character rejects his proposal. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen heroine, the protagonist of Mansfield Park
Fanny Price 
7

114978-)
The speaker of this poem mentions the "sluggish clod which the rude swain/ Turns with his share" and predicts that "The oak/ Shall send his roots abroad, and pierce thy mold." Its speaker exhorts the reader to "Take the wings/ Of morning, pierce the Barcan wilderness" and mentions a place "Where rolls the Oregon". More famously, the speaker of this poem asserts that "The globe are but a handful to the tribes/ That slumber in its bosom," asserts that "all that breathe/ Will share thy destiny", and, in the final stanza, instructs the reader "to join/ The innumerable caravan" and "approach thy grave... and lie down to pleasant dreams." For ten points, name this meditation on death, a poem by William Cullen Bryant. 
: "Thanatopsis"
7

114993-)
One poem by this author states "A small bird will drop frozen dead from a bough / without ever having felt sorry for itself", "Self Pity". While in another, the sound of a woman singing in the dusk brings back childhood memories of the narrator sitting at his mother's feet as she played and sang, "Piano". More famous perhaps is one in which the title figures are described as "darkening the daytime, torch-like, with the smoking blueness of Pluto's gloom", "Bavarian Gentians". But perhaps his most anthologized poem appears in his collection, Birds, Bees, and Flowers, and is about the narrator's failure to kill the title creature, which "trailed his yellow-brown slackness soft-bellied down over the edge of the stone trough", "The Snake". FTP, who is this English poet and novelist who wrote two novels about the Brangwen sisters and one about Constance Chatterly?
David Herbert Richard Lawrence 
9

115023-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist is mentored by Ionides Peisistratides after refusing to marry Leptides and becoming a Pythia.  In addition to that novel about Arieka, he wrote a novel in which Roger Mason is enlisted to erect the titular structure atop Jocelin's cathedral and another in which Reverend Colley's resemblance of a crab disturbs the protagonist, Edmund Talbot.  In addition to The Double Tongue, The Spire, and Rites of Passage, he wrote a novel in which the protagonist fantasizes that he appended tin foil to the top of a high rock and that his friend Nathaniel had been saved in a lifeboat.  Another novel includes a sow's head being impaled on a spear and the death of Simon after he is mistaken for The Beast.  FTP, name this British novelist of Pincher Martin and Lord of the Flies.
William Golding
9

115037-)
One character in this work throws a stuffed squirrel at another, and at one point a woman walks into a room holding a colander before encouraging her friend to fight her "knight in shining armor." Another woman in this play resents her husband and his friend Hugh using her to obtain free food and supposedly foment revolution at high-class parties, and in this play's third act, a man describes the metaphor of an aged bear traveling alone through the forest of life. One character in this play calls his friend's homosexuality "a strawberry mark" and says, "Do the Sunday papers make you feel ignorant?" to his friend Cliff while nearby his clothes are ironed by his wife, who had a miscarriage after Helena had an affair with her husband. That husband of Alison is a Vaughn Williams-loving jazz trumpet player named Jimmy Porter. For 10 points, name this play that originated the term "angry young men," a work of John Osborne.
Look Back in Anger
9

115069-)
One of this author's stories concludes with a ball of dung destroyed by a storm, leaving beetles forced to recreate it, while a novel of hers focuses on Comrade Johny, whose mother Julia, allows the journalist Frances Lennox to stay in her home. This author of "The Sun Between Their Feet" and The Sweetest Dream also wrote a story in which Susan returns to the title room once it is suggested that she and her husband Matthew have an open meeting with their paramours. One of her novels focuses on a woman that works for the C.C.U., and that novel focuses on Jasper Willis, who is supervised by Alice Mellings. This author of "To Room 19" created a character writes in a blue book as her diary, and presents a fictional version of herself in her yellow book. For ten points, name this creator of Anna Wulf who is trying to unite four books into the the title work of literature, the author of The Good Terrorist and The Golden Notebook.
Doris Lessing 
9

115100-)
One character joins a Morocan monastery after his roommate Kurt hangs himself in a German concentration camp. The protagonist marries the sister of his college friend Boy Mulcaster, and she gives birth to his daughter Caroline while he is on a two year expedition exploring ruins in South America. Much of this novel takes place at Oxford, where Mr. Samgrass fail to prevent Sebastian from living the life of a drunkard. This novel opens with the protagonist being billeted in the central locale by the army, and one character in this work openly lives with his mistress Cara in Venice. Sebastian's sister Julia marries Rex Mottram but carries on an affair with the protagonist, ultimately refusing to marry him for fear of a life of sin. For 10 points name this novel about the "Sacred and Profane Memories of Captain Charles Ryder," a painter who spends time with the Marchmain family at the title estate, a work of Evelyn Waugh.
Brideshead Revisited
9

115119-)
Late in this man's life, he recorded a country single entitled "Leave Me Satisfied." In one film appearance, this man sang a theme song about his character, "Marvelous Mervo," in the horror film Blood Harvest. At his 1970 appearance at the Isle of Wight Festival, this man electrified the crowd with his singing of "There'll Always Be an England" through a megaphone. This man is responsible for the bizarre holiday song "Santa Claus Has Got the AIDS This Year," and he rose to prominence with his appearances on the comedy show "Rowan and Martin's Laugh-In." Noted for his "Tonight Show" appearance where he married Miss Vicki, FTP, name this singer, who combined a ukulele and a falsetto voice to sing his trademark song, "Tiptoe Through the Tulips," and who takes his name from a Charles Dickens character.
Tiny Tim [or Herbert Khaury]
9

115167-)
The Latin phrase that opens the second line of this poem's second stanza means "Hail to thee," whereas the nonsensical three words that end the sixth line in the ninth and final stanza begin a necromantic spell.  The speaker also utters in Latin, "Hail, Virgin full of grace" denoting the beginning of the Vespers that call him away at the poem's end.  The reference to "twenty-nine damnations" in the seventh stanza is from Deuteronomy not Galatians as the poem states.  Among the sins the speaker ascribes are lusting after Sweet Dolores and Sanchicha, ostensibly two residents of the titular locale, who have been eyed by the speaker not Brother Lawrence to whom the speaker attributes his shortcomings.  FTP, name this poem that begins and ends with exclamations of, "Gr-r-r," a Robert Browing work told from the viewpoint of a jealous monk from Iberia.
"Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister"
9

115191-)
The Prologue to this work suggests that "When Anna's sceptre points the laws their course... there scarce is room for satire," and is spoken by Mr. Wilks. After kissing a maid named Cherry, one character compares her lips to honeycombs, to which she replies that she wishes there had been bees too, to sting him for his impudence. In this play, the highwayman Gibbet makes a plan to rob the household of a character who is flirting with the captive French officer Bellair, while Foigard is revealed to be an Irishman posing as a Frenchman in this play. This work's first act opens with a scene in which one of the main characters drinks some "confounded strong" ale served by Boniface, who tells that character about Lady Bountiful. The arrival of Sir Charles Freeman, who confirms the story of the death of the eldest brother of the two main characters, results in an inheritance for one of the main characters and the separation of Freeman's sister from her brutish husband.  Ending with Archer engineering Mrs. Sullen's divorce from her husband and Aimwell's marriage to Dorinda, for ten points, identify this late Restoration comedy, the most famous work of George Farquhar. 
The Beaux' Stratagem
9

115233-)
Matilda is killed by her father and the priest Jerome discovers he has a son, leading to Theodoregetting his rightful (*) inheritance in this novel. Prince Alfonso meets St. Nicholas in Heaven, and onecharacter in this book is killed on his wedding day when a giant helmet crushes him. Then, the Knight ofthe Gigantic Sabre shows up to haunt everybody at the title structure in, for 10 pointsÂ— what novel byHorace Walpole?
The Castle of Otranto
8

115258-)
Presaging Pygmalion, the hero of this novel turns a beggar into a society woman, though his friendsreact with horror. The title character scams women into telling secrets to (*) Cadwallader Crabtree,who pretends to be a fortune teller, and is imprisoned after writing a satire against Steady Steerwell.Ultimately all ends well when the hero marries Emilia Gauntlet. For 10 pointsÂ— name this novel by TobiasSmollett.
The Adventures of Peregrine Pickle, in Which Are Included Memories of a Lady of Quality
8

115275-)
One of this author's protagonists goes drinking with Bert Hutchinson, his ex-wife's new husband. Inaddition to Stanley and the Women, this author wrote a book in which Muriel Thomas hates Walesand Alun Weaver is a sex addict. This writer of The (*) Old Devils may be best known for a novel inwhich the Welch family is harangued by James Dixon. For 10 pointsÂ— name this writer of Lucky Jim.
Kingsley Amis
8

115304-)
Minor characters in this novel include Liddy Smallbury, a maid working for the protagonist, and Pennyways, a bailiff who is caught stealing grain and dismissed but returns later when he recognizes another character at Greenhill Fair. Fanny Robin is a young orphan who attempts to marry the antagonist of the work but is unsuccessful when she goes to the wrong church. The climatic action of the novel takes place at a Christmas party, where the obsessive William Boldwood shoots Sergeant Troy. The novel ends with the protagonist marrying the honest Gabriel Oak, her first suitor. For 10 points, identify this novel about Bathsheba Everdene, a work of Thomas 
Far from the Madding Crowd
7

115319-)
In this novel, Duncan Maclaren manages to keep Alan and Robert Oig Macgregor from engaging in a duel by having them compete in a bagpipe competition instead, and the murder of the "Red Fox" Colin Campbell in this work was based on an actual historical event. The minister of Essendean, Mr. Campbell, is a friend of the protagonist, who encounters such characters as the polite bandit Cluny Macpherson and Captain Hoseason. The protagonist of this novel is aided by the Jacobite Alan Breck Stewart, and at the end of this novel, Uncle Ebenezer of Shaws is forced to give up two thirds of his yearly income to the hero, and the plot of this novel was set into motion when the hero of this novel was tricked by Ebenzer into boarding the ship The Covenant. For 10 points, name this novel about the adventures of David Balfour following his abduction, a work by Robert Lewis Stevenson.  
Kidnapped 
7

115377-)
The stage directions for this play, whose author revised its ending confrontation six times, include a"light box" upstage. Two men who interrupt each other to relay gossip in this play are called the Venticelli,and the king in this play randomly exclaims "There it is!" Its narrator slits his throat after calling himselfthe "patron saint of mediocrities," seduces Katherina with candies called "nipples of Venus," and rejectsGod after throwing a rival's manuscript pages in the air. At its end, Constanze cradles her dying, infantilehusband as an "Amen" chord fails to resolve. For 10 points, name this Peter Shaffer play narrated bySalieri, who rages against a child prodigy composer.
Amadeus
7

115398-)
 One character in this play bursts onstage with a monologue in which he compares his tattered shoe to hismother and his whole shoe to his father while leading his dog Crab on a leash. In its first act, themaidservant Lucetta reads a love letter intended for her mistress, who angrily dismisses her andremorsefully calls her back, only to get angry again and rip up the letter. Later in this play, a group ofbanished outlaws demands that one of the title characters be their king. That character stops a rape in thefinal act, in which Thurio is exposed as a villain to the Duke of Milan and Sebastian blows her transvestitecover. For 10 points, name this early Shakespeare comedy about Valentine and Proteus, inhabitants of thetitle Italian city.
The Two Gentlemen of Verona
7

115416-)
This novel's protagonist laments, "I am in a chaos of principles--groping in the dark--acting by instinct and not after example," in an impromptu sermon he delivers to a crowd in the rain at a Remembrance Day procession. That protagonist meets his future wife while she washes chitterlings at a stream. Scathing public reaction to this novel led its author to devote himself solely to his poetry. The protagonist works in a bakery with his aunt Drusilla before marrying the coquette Arabella Donn. Towards the end of this novel, Little Father Time hangs himself and the two infant children of Sue Bridehead. For 10 points, name this novel about a stonemason, the last by Thomas Hardy.
Jude the Obscure
7

115429-)
An Earl Lovelace novel discusses Norbert's intermittent employment with a titular member of thisprofession, Arnold. Joshua Rann does this for a living in Adam Bede, and another one of theseensures the marriage of Rose and Lacy after he is appointed (*) Lord Mayor of London by Henry V.For 10 pointsÂ— name this type of person who, in a Thomas Dekker play, has a "holiday."
shoemakers (prompt on cobblers)
8

115438-)
At the end of this book, the fake missionary William Habakkuk is discovered. The characters studiedin the bulk of this work worship Ydgrun and use a corps of "Straighteners" to treat men like (*)Senoj Nosnibor, who is diagnosed with embezzlement. Musical banks are among the other innovationsfound by Higgs in the titular anagram-happy place. For 10 pointsÂ— name this 1872 Samuel Butler novelabout "nowhere."
Erewhon
8

115450-)
Shortly after hearing a plan to earn money on Greek Street, one character in this play collapses of aheart attack and reveals that the unseen MacGregor had a sexual encounter with Jessie in a taxi.Earlier, a symbolic glass of water adds to (*) Lenny's long list of women he has turned down, and Ruthchooses not to return to America. For 10 pointsÂ— name this Harold Pinter play that starts with Teddy'sfamily reunion.
The Homecoming
8

115540-)
One character in this novel is irked by a guest's desire for two bowls of soup. Mrs. McNab breaks acup while checking in on the abandoned house in the middle of this book, which sees Andrew die inWorld War I. The titular (*) journey doesn't take place for several years on the Isle of Skye, even thoughJames had been promised the trip by Mrs. Ramsay in, for 10 pointsÂ— what Virginia Woolf novel?
To the Lighthouse
8

115549-)
In the first one, that narrator becomes aware of a "mystic shape" announce "not death, but love.""Freely, as men strive for right and "by sun and candle-light" are among the (*) answers to theopening line of another. The first use of the namesake form in sequence since the Elizabethan age, for 10pointsÂ—name this volume including "How do I love thee?" and written by Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
Sonnets From the Portuguese
8

115552-)
Lamenting the fact that people do not talk about snapdragos and forget-me-nots, it holds up asnegative examples professors Laski and Hogben, and at one point declares "The (*) Fascist octopushas sung its swan song, the jackboot is thrown into the melting pot." It declares that certain statements,such as "the Soviet press is the freest in the world," are always meant to deceive, and it particularly railsagainst stale metaphors. For 10 pointsÂ— name this essay by George Orwell.
"Politics and the English Language"
8

115600-)
An eleven-line poem, its writer labeled it a "curtal sonnet." The eighth line contains the aside "whoknows how?", while the fifth refers to the "fold, fallow, and plough" which have "plotted and (*)pieced" the landscape. Ending "praise him," this poem lists "rose-moles," and "finches wings" as some ofthe "dappled things" that God should be glorified for. For 10 pointsÂ— name this poem by Gerard ManleyHopkins.
"Pied Beauty"
8

115602-)
One poem about people killed in one of these events states, "O lang, lang may the ladies stand wi' theirgold kems in their hair, waiting for their ain dear lords, for they'll see them na mair." Another poem aboutpeople killed in one of these events states, "Hope had grown grey hairs, Hope had mourning on...Hope wastwelve hours gone." One of these events kills the title character of the ballad "Sir Patrick Spens." A poemabout a victim of one of these requests, "Look homeward Angel now, and melt with ruth," beforeinstructing shepherds to "weep no more." Five nuns fleeing Germany die in one of these events in aHopkins poem, and one of these events killed Edward King. For 10 points, name this kind of accident thatinspired Milton's "Lycidas."
shipwrecks [or obvious equivalents; prompt on drowning]
7

115626-)
Two brothers in this play are described as "plum-trees that grow crooked over standing-pools." A noblein this play tells her executioners to "pull, and pull strongly, for your able strength must pull down heavenupon me." In a scene in this play set near a tomb, an "Echo" makes macabre predictions for theprotagonist's husband. The protagonist first reveals herself to be pregnant when she eats some apricotsoffered to her by a stable-master doubling as a spy. In this play's final scene, Bosola takes revenge on thetitle character's murderous brothers, Ferdinand and the Cardinal, who commanded her not to remarry. For10 points, name this tragedy by John Webster.
The Duchess of Malfi
7

115659-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist's husband is murdered by his illegitimate son, known as "The Whistler", who is later killed by Indians in the Western U.S. In another of his novels, Donald Bean Lean deceives Colonel Gardner with a false report on the activities of the protagonist, letting him escape to France. In addition to that novel about Jeanie's attempts to get a pardon for her sister (*) Effie and one in which Edward gets involved in the Jacobite Rising, he wrote a novel in which Ulrica helps save the title character from the Bois-Guilbert. The title character of that novel heeds the third call to defend Rebecca from being burned as a witch, allowing him to marry Rowena. For 10 points, name this Scottish author of Waverley and Ivanhoe.
Sir Walter Scott
7

115689-)
At a social event in this novel, Mrs. Leo Hunter reveals that one character lives at Bury St. Edmonds.During a game of whist in this novel, Rachael's hand is squeezed by a man who is shot in the arm the nextday while hunting rooks. Towards its beginning, Alfred Jingle prevents a group of cab drivers from hurtinga group of people heading towards Rochester. The lawyers Dodgson and Fogg argue against the titlecharacter, whose friend Nathaniel Winkle is mistaken for Tracy Tupman by Dr. Slammer. AugustusSnodgrass marries Emily Wardle with the help of the title character, who is served by Sam Weller. For 10points, name this novel detailing the adventures of the title character and his namesake club, the first byCharles Dickens.
The Pickwick Papers [or The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club]
7

115693-)
A character in this novel decides to have a child when she sees an old family cradle. This novel is oftenaccompanied by its author's essay "Apropos of" it. This novel begins, "Ours is essentially a tragic age, sowe refuse to take it tragically." A climactic scene in this novel occurs when a character's wheelchair getsstuck outside in the forest. During a trip to Venice, the protagonist and her sister Hilda meet up with theartist Duncan Forbes. The protagonist of this novel has a failed affair with Michaelis and is anxious to getaway from Wragby and her impotent husband. For 10 points, name this novel about the gamekeeper OliverMellors's affair with Connie, written by D. H. Lawrence.
Lady Chatterley's Lover
7

115706-)
One character in this play inquires as to why rice pudding and jam cannot be separated once stirred.Later in this work, the mentor of that character advises her not to be upset about the destruction of books inthe Alexandrian Library. One character in this play declares that "when we have found all the mysteries, wewill be alone on an empty shore." The poet of "The Couch of Eros" departs with Captain Brice midwaythrough this play, which ends with two couples waltzing. In this play, Hannah Jarvis attempts to discoverthe identity of a hermit who we learn is actually Septimus Hodge, the tutor of the mathematical geniusThomasina Coverly. For 10 points, name this play set in two different time periods at Sidley Park, by TomStoppard.
Arcadia
7

115732-)
This poem quotes John Denham's "Of Prudence" in saying "To live and die is all I have to do". The speaker of this poem describes how people flatter him by saying he "cough[s] like Horace" or has "Ovid's nose", and jokes that when he dies, he'll be compared to Homer because he "died three thousand years ago". One stanza in this poem describes a figure "blessed with each talent and each art to please" but being "too fond to rule alone, / Bear, like the Turk, no brother near the throne". Another figure in this poem is called a "mere white curd of ass's milk". Joseph Addison and Lord Hervey are satirized in this poem as the characters Atticus and Sporus. Because "All Bedlam, or Parnassus, is let out", the speaker of this poem commands "Shut, shut the door, good John!" This poem is the source of the phrases "damn with faint praise" and "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel?" For 10 points, name this Alexander Pope poem addressed to his physician.
"Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot"
8

115741-)
This poet imagines "the strongest thread / Of our frail plant" saying "Patience and Gentleness is Power" in "On a Lock of Milton's Hair." John Keats wrote that this man "set / Upon my ambitious head a glorious gain" in a poem about receiving a laurel crown from him. Apollo determines which of this man's contemporaries are worthy of dining with him in a poem this man wrote for The Reflector. This author of "The Feast of the Poets" was satirized as Horace Skimpole in Bleak House. In a poem about an encounter with Thomas Carlyle's wife, Jane Welsh, this man wrote "Time, you thief, who love to get / Sweets into your list, put that in!" Another poem by him describes a man waking "from a deep dream of peace" and asking an angel with a "book of gold" to "Write me as one that loves his fellow men". For 10 points, name this English essayist, poet, and editor of the Examiner who wrote "Jenny Kissed Me" and "Abou Ben Adhem".
Leigh Hunt [or James Henry Leigh Hunt]
8

115777-)
A character in this play keeps interrupting a scene to complain that the cook is refusing to stuff the venison with dumplings or serve woodcocks with buttered toast. This play opens with a character being evicted from a tavern, whose tavern keeper and wife have been bribed to turn him out. Another character in this play leaves the name of the groom blank on a letter that commands that his daughter be married by a priest in Gotham, thus allowing her to marry the page of the lord who pretends to be wooing her. The villain in this play is aided by the fat, corrupt justice-of-the-peace Greedy, but betrayed by his sidekick, the lawyer Jack Marall, who aids the schemes of Tom and Lady Allworth. For 10 points, name this play in which Frank Wellborn saves himself from the financial ruin thrust upon him by his uncle, Sir Giles Overreach, a Jacobean comedy by Philip Massinger.
A New Way to Pay Old Debts
8

115798-)
A character in this play keeps interrupting a scene to complain that the cook is refusing to stuff the venison with dumplings or serve woodcocks with buttered toast. This play opens with a character being evicted from a tavern, whose tavern keeper and wife have been bribed to turn him out. Another character in this play leaves the name of the groom blank on a letter that commands that his daughter be married by a priest in Gotham, thus allowing her to marry the page of the lord who pretends to be wooing her. The villain in this play is aided by the fat, corrupt justice-of-the-peace Greedy, but betrayed by his sidekick, the lawyer Jack Marall, who aids the schemes of Tom and Lady Allworth. For 10 points, name this play in which Frank Wellborn saves himself from the financial ruin thrust upon him by his uncle, Sir Giles Overreach, a Jacobean comedy by Philip Massinger.
A New Way to Pay Old Debts
8

115812-)
The protagonist of this work stays overnight at Thomas Hardy's house during a bicycling trip and gives Hardy advice on dealing with autograph seekers. Its protagonist recalls how the daughter of his headmaster tried to find out what male genitals looked like by staring down his shirtfront, and explains his claim that romance at preparatory school is "necessarily homosexual" by describing his escapades with his pseudonymous friend "Dick." The epilogue to this book makes the first mention of the protagonist's longstanding mistress, who accompanied him and his wife Nancy when he became an English teacher at the University of Cairo. Ending with a "Dedicatory Epilogue" to Laura Riding, this book describes its author's correspondence with Siegfried Sassoon, and relates how his lung was punctured during the Battle of the Somme. For 10 points, name this memoir that includes detailed descriptions of its author's service in the Royal Welch Fusiliers during World War I, written by Robert Graves.
Goodbye to All That
8

115841-)
This poem describes a group that "fashion the birth-robes for them who are just born, being dead" and that group are the handmaidens of Mary, "whose names are five sweet symphonies". The title character of this poem declares that "I myself shall teach to him... /The songs I sing here" and "I'll take his hand and go with him/ To the deep wells of light... And bathe there is god's sight". This poem describes its subject as being surrounded by lovers who "spoke evermore among themselves/ Their heart-remember'd names", and it was first published in 1850 in The Germ. Its title character's hair "was yellow like ripe corn" and "her eyes were deeper than the depth/ Of waters still'd at even", and in the first stanza she "lean'd out from the gold bar of heaven" and "had three lilies in her hand". For 10 points, name this poem by Dante Gabriel Rossetti that inspired a similarly titled painting.
"The Blessed Damozel"
8

115865-)
This writer gave a lecture stating that the hidden treasuries are a library's books, which he suggests men use to find a "position in life." In another lecture, this writer stated that man's intellect is for creation, conquest and adventure, while a woman's intellect is for sweet ordering and decision, and that a woman's greatest function is Praise. This writer penned a series of epistles to the workers of Great Britain in his last work, Fors Clavigera. This author included "Of Kings' Treasuries" and "Of Queen's Gardens" in his collection Sesame and Lilies. In another work, he cites Oliver Wendell Holmes' line about a golden crocus to define the error of ascribing human emotions to inanimate things, which he calls the "pathetic fallacy." That five-volume work by this writer defends the landscapes of J.M.W. Turner over the old masters. For 10 points, name this author of Modern Painters and The Stones of Venice, a Victorian art critic.
John Ruskin
8

115916-)
One story by this author has the moral that "if your godfathers and godmothers at your baptism give you a pretty name, you will probably marry the most beautiful woman in the world and live happily ever afterwards." In another story by this author, Millicent's family calls her "most selfish" for burdening them with the secret of how she killed her husband with a Malay sword. In addition to "The Choice of Amyntas" and "Before the Party," this author wrote a story in which Lawson drowns himself in "The Pool" following years of marriage to a Samoan girl, and also penned a detective story called "Footprints in the Jungle." A set of linked stories by this author follows the title spy as he works for R. and encounters nefarious characters like the "hairless Mexican." For 10 points, name this author who fictionalized his experience in British intelligence in the collection Ashenden and also wrote about Davidson's attempt to rescue Sadie Thompson from prostitution in the story "Rain."
W. Somerset Maugham [or William Somerset Maugham]
8

115934-)
This character was the "first stranger to whom" his friend's daughter "held out her chubby arms," and that friend's son requests, "Kiss [this character] for me!" while dying. This character's superior is described as a "fellow of delicacy" in contrast to this "fellow of no delicacy," who tells his love interest that she has "been the last dream of my soul." In this man's first appearance, he spends most of a trial staring lazily up at the courtroom ceiling before he tosses a piece of paper to his boss, Mr. Stryker. In a conversation analogized to a game of cards, this character, who is often compared to a jackal, plays his "Ace" by threatening to denounce the spy John Barsad. People remark that this man's face was the peacefullest ever beheld after this man's death, which occurs shortly after he kisses a seamstress and thinks about how he has facilitated the happy life of Lucie Manette and Charles Darnay. For 10 points, name this man whose last thought is "It is a far, far better rest that I go to than I have ever known," before he is guillotined in A Tale of Two Cities.
Sydney Carton [accept either underlined portion]
8

115947-)
In a novel by this author, a character bursts into tears after overhearing a joke about her getting abducted by a black tam- bourine player. In another novel by this author, a character drowns while fighting a schoolteacher, and earlier provides a false affidavit against a man who makes a living robbing drowned bodies. This author wrote a novel in which a character teams up with the hangman Ned Dennis to abduct two girls during an event in which both of his legs are crushed. Another of his characters marries Bella Wilfer after being fired by Mr. Boffin, and changes his last name from Harmon to Rokesmith after a body mistaken for his is found by Gaffer Hexam. One of this author's title characters has a raven that repeats the phrase "Never say die!" named Grip, and works at the Maypole Inn in a novel set largely during the Gordon Riots. For 10 points, name this author of Our Mutual Friend and Barnaby Rudge.
Charles Dickens [or Charles John Huffam Dickens]
8

115970-)
A character with this job states that he had a vision of a child who died less than two weeks ago being borne up to heaven while talking to the child's mother. That man with this job uses the examples of Darius drunkenly shooting his knight's son, Cyrus destroying the river Gysen, and a judge condemning three knights to their death as examples of the negative effects of anger. In that story, a member of this profession puts his hand down Thomas's back in order to receive a gift that he can divide evenly. The prologue to that story depicts an angel asking Satan to lift his tail, after which 20,000 of these people fly out of his ass. A squire suggests that a man of this profession acquire a cartwheel to perform the aforementioned division when the gift turns out to be a fart. The Summoner tells a mocking tale about members of this profession after one of them tells a similar tale about a summoner. For 10 points, the Wife of Bath's tale is followed by a tale by a member of what mendicant religious occupation?
friars [or frere; or limiter; or lymytour]
8

115999-)
This poet wrote that "the mind must sweat a poison / Keener than Thessaly's brew" in a work whose speaker states "Now I have come to reason / And cast my schoolboy clout." Another poem by this author claims that "big guns" will "Grow nearer home - and out of the dream-house stumbling" such that "You'll know you slept too long." This poet described how "for those / whom accident made great", "their seed is in us and over / our lives they are evergreen" in the title poem of one of his collections. This author of "Newsreel" and Transitional Poem introduced the detective Nigel Strangeways in A Question of Proof, a novel written under the pseudonym "Nicholas Blake". Like Louis MacNeice and Stephen Spender, he was a member of the "Auden Group", and he gained fame for his translations of Virgil's three major works. His poetry collections include A Time to Dance and Overtures to Death. For 10 points, name this British Poet Laureate from 1968 to 1972 who rejected the use of the hyphen in his last name.
Cecil Day-Lewis [prompt on "Nicholas Blake" until it is read]
8

116025-)
A person in this poem weaves a metaphorical net by "twining ("twy-ning") subtle fears with hope", while another person is criticized for living "reserved and austere" as if his "highest plot" was "to plant the bergamot". This poem says that "The Pict no shelter now shall find" within the "parti-colour'd mind" of its subject, who will prove to be as Caesar and Hannibal were to Gaul and Italy. An extended image in this poem compares its subject to "three-fork'd lightning, first / breaking the clouds where it was nurst" and then blasting through the laurels on "Caesar's head". Its penultimate stanza urges the title figure, "the War's and Fortune's son," to "march indefatigably on". This poem describes how a man who "could not cease / in the inglorious arts of peace" engineered the execution of Charles I. For 10 points, name this poem written in reserved celebration of the accomplishments of the Lord Protector by Andrew Marvell.
"An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland"
8

116039-)
An author with this surname was an ardent nationalist who wrote a number of poems about the fictional hill-farmer Iago Prytherch and was praised in John Betjeman's preface to his first widely-published collection, Song at the Year's Turning. Another author with this surname attracted controversy for lifting passages wholesale from Anatoly Kuznetsov's novel Babi Yar for a novel in which recurring, intense pains in the left breast and ovary prompt the opera singer Lisa Erdman, also known as "Frau Anna G.", to seek treatment with Sigmund Freud. The author of The White Hotel shares this surname with a poet who described how "the sabbath rang slowly / In the pebbles of the holy streams" in a poem from his collection Deaths and Entrances. For 10 points, give the surname of the poet who wrote the lines "Time held me green and dying / Though I sang in my chains like the sea" at the end of his poem "Fern Hill".
Thomas [or Ronald Stuart "R.S." Thomas; or Donald Michael "D.M." Thomas; or Dylan (Marlais) Thomas]
8

116060-)
A character in this play vows to "make my very house reel tonight" in sheer excitement at the news that another character has a letter for him. In another scene, the description of a child running "after a gilded butterfly," continually catching and releasing it and eventually tearing it apart, is provided by Valeria. Gunter Grass depicted a director called "the Chief" leading rehearsals of this play in a play of his own about Bertolt Brecht's version of it. A speech describing "a time when all the body's members rebell'd against the belly" is delivered to forestall a grain riot by Menenius Agrippa in this play. After the schemes of Brutus and Sicinius result in his exile, the protagonist of this play allies himself with the Volscian general Tullus Aufidius, though his devotion to his mother Volumnia eventually thwarts his plans for revenge. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play titled for the agnomen, or nickname, given to the Roman general Caius Marcius.
The Tragedy of Coriolanus
8

116076-)
This character has "a talent for seeing the essence of every situation" according to an essay that challenges J. Dover Wilson's "very dull and very shallow" interpretation. This character is "so negative and insignificant that she arouses" "disgust" that "envelops and exceeds her," according to a Carolyn Heilbrun essay. After being accused of "honeying and making love / Over the nasty sty" with "A cutpurse of the empire and the rule," this character begs, "O, speak to me no more; / These words, like daggers, enter into mine ears." She pronounces a man to be "mad as the sea and wind" for crying "'A rat! A rat!"' and urges another character to "speak to me no more!" during the "closet scene". An eavesdropper is stabbed behind a tapestry in the closet of this character, who is denounced with the phrase, "Frailty, thy name is woman!" For 10 points, name this character whom Freud cast as the object of Hamlet's Oedipal desire.
Queen Gertrude [prompt on "the Queen"]
8

116098-)
A character in this novel folds his newspaper into a beak around his nose, then jumps out from behind a tree at his grandson, who he then calls a coward. Another of its characters finds a snake choking on a large toad and stomps them to death, while a third character imagines rhododendron forests while reading her Outline of History. One of this novel's main characters fantasizes about the farmer Rupert Haines and has an enjoyable conversation after going to the greenhouse with William Dodge. A group of people rush in carrying mirrors at the end of the central event of this novel, which consecutively depicts the Elizabethan era, the Age of Reason, and the Victorian Age, and is directed by Miss La Trobe. This novel is set at Pointz Hall, the home of the Oliver family, whose scion Giles cheats on his wife Isa with Mrs. Manresa. For 10 points, name this novel set during a pageant about the history of England, the final completed work of Virginia Woolf.
Between the Acts
8

116128-)
In one of this man's novels, Kuprasso's cafe is revealed to hide the Garden-house of Suliman the Red, where several characters are hypnotized by the dancing of the Companions of the Rosy Hours. Peter Pienaar and Sandy Arbuthnot often accompany one of this man's characters, who poses as "Twisdon" and gives an impromptu speech on free trade for the political candidate Sir Harry. Early in a novel by this man, the protagonist disguises himself as a milkman to escape his apartment after the death of Franklin Scudder. The protagonist of his most famous novel discovers that the Black Stone, a ring of German spies, are plotting to assassinate the Greek Premier Karolides and invade England, causing that character to flee both to and from the Scottish countryside. For 10 points, name this Scottish author who, in addition to being the 15th Governor-General of Canada, wrote about the adventures of Richard Hannay in novels like Greenmantle and The Thirty-Nine Steps.
John Buchan [or Lord Tweedsmuir; or the 1st Baron Tweedsmuir]
8

116138-)
n a long speech, this character asserts that "We die on the march. But there is nothing outside the march so nothing can be lost to it", before pretending to translate Latin while actually reciting a Shakespeare speech from memory. Near the end of the play, this character says "When we have found all the meanings and lost all the mysteries, we will be alone, on an empty shore", shortly before agreeing to waltz with another character. After this character returns from a rabbit hunt, he is confronted with two letters, one of which is "full of rice pudding" and the other of which results in him being invited to sleep with Lady Croom. He narrowly avoids fighting a duel by heaping praise on "The Couch of Eros", a bad poem by Ezra Chater. In his very first line, he claims that "throwing one's arms around a side of beef" is the definition of "carnal embrace." Hannah Jarvis discovers that this character became the "hermit of Sidley Park" after the death of his student Thomasina Coverly. For 10 points, name this friend of Lord Byron, a major character in Tom Stoppard's Arcadia.
Septimus Hodge [accept either underlined portion; do NOT accept "Septimius Hodge"]
8

116166-)
This poem refers to the mystical ladder of divine love presented in the Dark Night of the Soul in its late mention of "the figure of ten stairs". Its fourth section asks "Will the sunflower turn to us, will the clematis / Stray down, bend to us[?]" and describes a time when "the light is still / At the still point of the turning world". This poem describes the "desiccation", "evacuation", and "inoperancy" of the worlds of "sense", "fancy", and "spirit" that occur after a descent into "the world of perpetual solitude". In its first section, a bird tells a poet to "round the corner" into the "first world," warning the poet that "humankind cannot bear much reality" as it guides them through a place whose "leaves were full of children" laughing and hiding. This poem features the recurring image of a rose-garden at a house in the Cotswolds, and begins with the lines "Time present and time past / Are both perhaps present in time future". For 10 points, name this poem, the first of T.S. Eliot's Four Quartets.
"Burnt Norton" [prompt on "the Four Quartets"]
8

116185-)
The stage directions for this play indicate that an autotype of the main figure of Titian's Assumption should hang above the fireplace. After learning that the woman he loves fills dirty lamps daily, a character in this play promises her a chariot to carry them into the stars, comparing those stars to lamps that "don't need to be filled with paraffin oil every day." The title character of this play stares at the tip of a poker while becoming intensely bored by a poetry reading. At the opening of this play, the secretary Proserpine "Prossy" Garnett berates the low-class curate Lexy and lets in Mr. Burgess to speak with his son-in-law, a Christian socialist lecturer who later gives a speech at the Guild of St. Matthew. This entry in Plays Peasant is subtitled "A Mystery," and ends with the title "pure" woman choosing her husband James Morrell over the poet Eugene Marchbanks. For 10 points, name this comedy by George Bernard Shaw named for a woman.
Candida, A Mystery
8

116220-)
This poem describes "lakes of liquid gold," "purple fires," "angels in machines," and "snakes on rolling spires," at a location occupied by living teapots, jars, bottles and a solitary pipkin. That place in this poem is ruled by a monarch served by handmaids called "Ill-Nature" and "Affection." A character in this poem visits that Queen to obtain a vial filled with "fainting fears" and "soft sorrows," as well as a wondrous bag that holds the "force of female lungs" and the "war of tongues." Later, that character finds his master weeping in Thalestris's arms. At the end of this poem, the title object shoots "thro' liquid air" and becomes a star; earlier, it was acquired by a noble during a game of ombre. This poem details a gnome's visit to the Cave of Spleen, and it begins "What dire Offence from am'rous causes Springs, what mighty Contests rise from Trivial things." For 10 points, name this mock heroic poem in which a baron cuts Belinda's hair, by Alexander Pope.
The Rape of the Lock
8

116239-)
Early in this novel, the protagonist spends a train ride counting thirty-five advertisements for "THE OX IN THE TEA- CUP". Another character in this novel bursts out laughing after reading the phrase "the story of Dante and Beatrice told by Hans Andersen" in a review of her husband's book The Invisible Lover. Joan Thursley's fiance kills himself after she falls in love with the protagonist of this novel, which also includes a scene in which the betrayal of Holtzmann results in the kidnapping of Ekki Giesebrecht. The protagonist of this novel adopts the pacifistic philosophy of James Miller, who he meets in Mexico while searching for a doctor for his injured friend Mark Staithes. Its protagonist has affairs with both Mary Amberley and her daughter Helen Ledwidge, and is soaked in blood alongside the latter when a dog falls out of an airplane and explodes next to them. For 10 points, Anthony Beavis is the protagonist of which Aldous Huxley novel that takes its name from Samson Agonistes?
Eyeless in Gaza
8

116247-)
This man's idleness was lamented in another author's Session of the Poets, which noted that this man had completed only two plays. In 2007, Tom Hardy starred in the National Theatre's revival of a play by this man that contains a subplot in which Emilia captures the affections of both Young and Old Bellair. Pepys's diary records that the crowd was so large that more than a thousand people were turned away from the 1668 debut of this man's second play, She Would if She Could. His third and final play, completed in 1676, concerns a libertine balancing the love interests Harriet, Bellinda, and Mrs. Loveit. This man's friend, John Wilmot, the Earl of Rochester, was the likely inspiration for the rakish protagonist, Dorimant, in this man's major play. This playwright pioneered the 17th-century "comedy of manners" with a dramatic work subtitled for the character of Sir Fopling Flutter. For 10 points, name this Restoration comedian who wrote The Man of Mode.
Sir George Etherege
8

116381-)
At the end of this play, a man proposes after finding out that his beloved is twenty-three years old, not seventeen. In this play, Nicola is concerned about being polite to his masters so that they can be good customers when he opens up shop. This play ends with the military commander Sergius asking, "Is he a man?" about a character who fought for the Serbian army but put chocolate in his pockets instead of ammunition. At the beginning of this play, that Swiss mercenary is hidden by a Bulgarian family served by Louka. For 10 points, name this play about Raina Petkoff's relationship with Captain Bluntschli that takes its title from the Aeneid and was written by George Bernard Shaw.
Arms and the Man
7

116394-)
 The title character of one of this man's novels is possessed by the Master Spirit and assumes the identityof the dictator Lord Paramount as he leads Great Britain to war against the United States and Germany.This author of The Autocracy of Mr. Parham wrote about Teddy Pondervo, who becomes fabulouslywealthy from manufacturing the title drug in his novel Tono-Bungay. In another of his novels, attackers tryto steal Mrs. Elphinstone's carriage as she flees London, and Chief Justice Lord Garrick receives no specialtreatment following an invasion. The narrator of that novel by this author uses Ogilvy's telescope andexamines cylinders at a crash site. For 10 points, name this author of The War of the Worlds.
Herbert George Wells
7

116406-)
This poet asked, "Can't I use my wit as a pitchfork to drive the brute off?" in a poem depictingmiddle-class work as the title creature. In another poem, he described "a shape less recognizable each week,a purpose more obscure," noting, "I take off my cycle-clips in awkward reverence" upon entering the titlelocation. This poet of "Toads" described "everyone young going down the long slide to happiness,endlessly," in a poem that begins by imagining a girl "taking pills or wearing a diaphragm." His mostfamous poem concludes by advising, "Get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself." For10 points, name this gloomy British poet of "Church Going," "High Windows," and "This Be the Verse."
Philip Larkin
7

116425-)
This poet asked, "How should we like it were stars to burn with a passion for us we could not return?"in his poem "The More Loving One." He depicted "an artificial wilderness and a sky like lead" on anobject whose viewer expected to see "marble well-governed cities" and "vines and olive trees." In anotherpoem, he wrote that we are "children afraid of the night who have never been happy or good," noting,"Those to whom evil is done do evil in return." This poet wrote of how "the torturer's horse scratches itsinnocent behind on a tree" in a poem opening, "About suffering they were never wrong, the old Masters."For 10 points, name this British poet of "The Shield of Achilles," "September 1, 1939," and "Musee desBeaux Arts."
W. H. Auden
7

116443-)
Matthew Arnold took the phrase "sweetness and light" from a book by this writer, in which a brawlensues after Aesop tells the Fable of the Spider and the Bee. He devised the name "Vanessa" to refer toEsther Vanhomrigh, the subject of his Cadenus and Vanessa. This author represented Martin Luther, JohnCalvin, and St. Peter as three brothers who inherit coats from their father in a defense of Anglicanism. Arace of talking horses called the Houyhnhnms was created by this author of The Battle of the Books and ATale of a Tub. For 10 points, name this Irish satirist who wrote "A Modest Proposal" and Gulliver'sTravels.
Jonathan Swift
7

116459-)
In one scene, this character tells his friend, "If love be rough with you, be rough with love; prick love forpricking, and you beat love down." In his final prose speech, this character states, "Ask for me tomorrow,and you shall find me a grave man." This character describes a figure with "collars of the moonshine'swat'ry beams" who is "drawn with a team of little atomi over men's noses as they lie asleep" in his speechabout "the fairies' midwife" named Queen Mab. As he dies after being stabbed under his friend's arm, herepeatedly exclaims, "A plague o' both your houses!" For 10 points, name this Shakespearean noble killedby Tybalt and avenged by Romeo.
Mercutio
7

116476-)
In this novel, a reformed thief jumps off the South Spit after buying a tin box and dog chains from Mrs.Yolland and using them to hide a paint-smeared nightgown in the Shivering Sand. The antagonist of thisnovel is trying to pay off his debts to the subtly-named Septimus Luker. In this novel, Ezra Jenningsconducts an experiment by slipping an ex-smoker opium and seeing if it makes him sleepwalk. Near itsend, a sailor with a fake beard and wig turns out to be Godfrey Ablewhite, who was murdered by threeBrahmins after taking the title object from Rachel Verinder. For 10 points, name this Victorian detectivenovel about the theft of a diamond, written by Wilkie Collins.
The Moonstone
7

116496-)
This poet responded to his wife's death with a poem whose speaker hopes to "bear the brunt, in a minutepay life's glad arrears of pain, darkness, and cold." He wrote, "This, I was worth to God, whose wheel thepitcher shaped," in a poem that responds to the hedonism of the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam. This author of"Prospice" wrote, "Let age approve of youth, and death complete the same!" in a poem beginning "Growold along with me! The best is yet to be!" The line, "And yet God has not said a word!" concludes anotherof his poems, whose speaker strangles his beloved with her own hair. For 10 points, name this British poetwhose dramatic monologues include "Rabbi Ben Ezra," "Porphyria's Lover," and "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning
7

116500-)
This poet lamented that the "terror of night-prowlers" is "encased in an urn" in his Latin elegy for theLord Chief Baron of the Exchequer, Roger Manwood. One of his characters states, "Nature, that framed usof four elements, warring within our breasts for regiment, doth teach us all to have aspiring minds," afteroverthrowing Cosroe. The speakers lists "a kirtle embroidered all with leaves of myrtle" and "a gown madeof the finest wool which from our pretty lambs we pull" in his poem that begins with the speaker's request,"Come live with me and be my Love." For 10 points, name this English poet of "The Passionate Shepherdto His Love" and such plays as Tamburlaine the Great and Doctor Faustus.
Christopher Marlowe
7

116520-)
This poet wrote an untitled poem in which he described how his dead hand would "haunt thy days andchill thy dreaming nights," though it is "now warm and capable of earnest grasping." One of his sonnetsconcludes, "on the shore of the wide world I stand alone, and think till love and fame to nothingness dosink." Another of his sonnets incorrectly identifies whose "eagle eyes...stared at the Pacific" and begins,"Much have I travelled in the realms of gold." This poet of "When I Have Fears That I May Cease to Be"asked, "Was it a vision, or a waking dream?" in a poem about a bird that "wast not born for death." For 10points, name this Romantic poet who wrote "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer" and "Ode to aNightingale."
John Keats
7

116529-)
The only surviving sketch of one of these places was created by visiting Dutchman Johannes de Witt.Philip Henslowe's diary records his experience in charge of one of these facilities called The Rose. A signwith a picture of Atlas inspired the name for one of these facilities; another was named because it was builton the former land of Dominican monks. These institutions, which were shut down between OliverCromwell's ascent and the Restoration of Charles II, included one named "Blackfriars" that was built byJames Burbage. Another of these was frequented by "groundlings," who paid the lowest admission price.For 10 points, name these places in Elizabethan England, including The Globe, where Shakespeare's playswere performed.
 theaters [or playhouses]
7

116570-)
In this poem, "my friend" likely refers to the poet to whom it was originally dedicated, Jessie Pope. Anearly version of this poem was sent to the author's mother from Craiglockhart. This poem describes how"All went lame; all blind; drunk with fatigue" before proposing that the addressee share the speaker'sexperience by means of "some smothering dreams." This poem describes a "hanging face, like a devil's sickof sin" and the blood "obscene as cancer, bitter as the cud of vile, incurable sores" coming from the"froth-corrupted lungs" of one of the speaker's companions. This poem refutes "the old Lie" taken from anode by Horace. For 10 points, name this poem about a gas attack written by Wilfred Owen.
"Dulce et Decorum Est"
7

116574-)
This poet described how "all day long my heart was in my knee" in a poem about how the addressee'sfavors "and my mind may chime, and mend my rhyme." The speaker urges himself to "forsake thy cage,thy rope of sands" in one of his poems beginning, "I struck the board and cried, 'No more; I will abroad!'"In another poem, this poet of "Denial" told God, "A heart alone is such a stone, as nothing but thy powerdoth cut." He concluded, "if I imp my wing on thine, affliction shall advance the flight in me" in a poemoriginally printed sideways. For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet who included "The Altar" and"Easter Wings" in his collection The Temple.
George Herbert
7

116603-)
The speaker of this poem invokes "Sad Patience, too near neighbor to Despair" in describing how "weothers pine, and wish the long unhappy dream would end, and waive all claim to bliss." The speaker of thispoem says, "Thou hadst one aim, one business, one desire: else wert thou long since numbered with thedead," in reference to the title character, who averts "this strange disease of modern life" and perpetuallywaits for "the spark from Heaven." A passage in "Glanvil's book" describes the title student of this poem,who leaves Oxford to join a band of Roma. For 10 points, name this poem by Matthew Arnold.
"The Scholar-Gipsy"
7

116607-)
This poem describes how "only reapers, reaping early in among the bearded barley, hear a song thatechoes cheerly." In its third section, a "gemmy bridle" is compared to "some branch of stars we see hungin the golden galaxy." This poem's final section describes "a carol, mournful, holy," chanted by a woman"till her blood was frozen slowly." The title character of this poem "weaves by night and day a magic webwith colors gay" as "shadows of the world appear" in her mirror. For 10 points, name this poem by LordTennyson about a woman who is cursed when she looks upon Sir Lancelot.
"The Lady of Shalott"
7

116626-)
A character in this play is ordered to first put several drops of vinegar in each of various sensory organs, then cry "hum" and "buzz" thrice each. Another character in this play disguises himself as  Spanish nobleman and is mocked by two characters who think he can't speak English. Kastril receives a quarreling lesson in this play, which also features a character who wants to meet the Queen of Fairy and a group of Anabaptists lead by (*) Tribulation Wholesome. At the end of this play, Dame Pliant marries Lovewit, who had earlier left London because of the plague. Dol Common is courted by Epicure Mammon, who seeks out the protagonists in order to acquire the philosopher's stone in, for 10 points, what Ben Jonson play about the con artists Face and Subtle? 
The Alchemist
5

116913-)
The speaker of this poem reflects how he, "presageful," would watch a "stranger" described in italics in the third stanza. This poem, ostensibly addressed to a young Hartley, describes its subject as a "companionable form" that "makes a toy of Thought." This poem calls God "Great universal Teacher" and describes a "thin blue flame" of a "low-burnt fire." Its speaker notes that his "cradled infant slumbers peacefully," and declares that "all seasons shall be sweet to thee" before closing by observing objects (*) "quietly shining to the quiet moon." The speaker of this poem contrasts his own urban childhood with the predicted rural upbringing he longs to give his own son, as symbolized by the title phenomenon which occurs "unhelped by any wind." For 10 points, name this poem about the "secret ministry" of the title cold-weather phenomenon, written by Coleridge.
"Frost at Midnight"
7

116918-)
This character yells "Hooray for the hardness of walls!" after being ordered to sing. This character discusses "the King of the Gods" with a weeping old man, while standing in a circle of statues and pretending to be the "Great Destroyer." At the end of a novel, this character tells some watching animals that he's "had an accident" and wishes "so may you all." This character discusses a blind singer called (*) the Shaper with a gold-hoarding dragon. This character lives with a "sea witch" at the bottom of a firesnake-filled lake. This character, who is descended from "Cain's clan," has his arm torn off by a man who catches him killing Hrothgar's men in Heorot Hall. For 10 points, name this title character of a John Gardner novel, who is the first monster slain by Beowulf.
Grendel
7

116929-)
. In a novel by this author, the main character buys a bag of mineral specimens from a woman at the Pension Dressler who eventually leaves with her German husband in a collapsible canoe. He wrote about a man who plays the card game "animal snap" with his son, who is killed in a fox hunting accident at Hetton Abbey. A character created by this author eventually becomes a porter at a Tunisian monastery and has a (*) teddy bear named Aloysius. A novel of his follows a man who writes the "Lush Places" column for The Daily Beast and is set in Ishmaelia. One of this author's protagonists visits the Amazonian Jungle, where he is forced to read Dickens novels to Mr. Todd. A novel by this author features the alcoholic Sebastian Flyte, who befriends the painter Charles Ryder. For 10 points, name this author of Scoop, Handful of Dust, and Brideshead Revisited.
Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]
7

116947-)
One of this author's protagonists uses a drug developed by Magnus Lane to experience the 14th-century unrequited affair between Isolda Carminowe and his doppelganger Roger. In a story by this author of The House on the Strand, Mr. and Mrs. Trigg are among the victims of a series of attacks that Nat Hocken realizes occur only at high tide. In one of this author's novels, the protagonist inadvertently attends a ball wearing a replica of a (*) dress belonging to the deceased title character due to the machinations of Mrs. Danvers. The unnamed narrator is the second wife of Maxim de Winter in that novel by this author, which opens "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again." For 10 points, name this Cornish woman who wrote "The Birds" and Rebecca. 
 Daphne du Maurier [or Dame Daphne du Maurier, Lady Browning] 
5

116969-)
This author invented the proscription in English against preposition stranding while objecting to a sentence written by Ben Jonson. In a play by this author, Rodophil and his wife Doralice are having affairs with, respectively, Melantha and her fiancÃ© Palamede; meanwhile, Leonidas overthrows the usurper Polydamas and marries the princess Palmyra. Nahum Tate likely completed the second part of a poem by this author in which the two (*) Biblical title characters represent the Duke of Monmouth and the Earl of Shaftesbury. This author of Marriage a la Mode was heavily influenced by Shakespeare's Antony and Cleopatra in the production of his heroic drama All for Love. For ten points, name this Restoration-era Poet Laureate who wrote Mac Flecknoe and Absalom and Achitophel.
John Dryden
5

116972-)
A man in this novel cries when he sees an advertisement for toffee being spelled out by an airplane. In this novel, a woman prays in Westminster Abbey after her student leaves to wait for an omnibus and meets an old friend who had "five enormous boys" with Lord Rosseter. Its protagonist's daughter is tutored by a woman who wears a bulky mackintosh and is a fanatical born-again Christian. Sally (*) Seton and Peter Walsh are among the guests of a dinner party in this novel that is interrupted by a man who avoids Dr. Holmes by jumping from a window. This novel's title character, the wife of Richard, shares a psychiatrist with World War I veteran Septimus Smith. For 10 paints, name this stream-of-consciousness novel about Clarissa, written by Virgina Woolf.
Mrs. Dalloway
5

116991-)
A character in this play claims to have been offered a job at a nightclub in Berlin before rhapsodizing about a concert he supposedly once gave. Several characters in this play worry about the appearance of a large vehicle containing a wheelbarrow. Its central character is barraged with questions like "why do you force that old man out to play chess?" and "Why did you betray the organization?" During a game of (*) blind man's bluff, the central character of this play attempts to strangle a woman who'd previously given him a drum and also attacks Lulu. This play is set in a boarding house in which Goldberg and McCann take Stanley away after the title celebration, the second by Harold Pinter. 
The Birthday Party
5

117009-)
17. In a poem by this man, Calidore beheads a man who shaves the beards and hair of passersby while searching for the Blatant Beast. In the opening poem of a collection by this man, the speaker imagines lines "Written with teares in harts close bleeding book," which is handled by his lover's "lilly hands." The speaker of another poem by this man proclaims "let baser things devise / To die in dust, but you shall live by fame," after repeatedly writing the name of his lover in the sand. A character created by this man slays (*) Error before meeting Fradubio, who had been turned into a tree by the witch Duessa. That character, who takes his name from the design on his shield, serves the queen Gloriana. For 10 points, name this author of the sonnet cycle Amoretti, who created the Redcrosse Knight in The Faerie Queene.
Edmund Spenser
7

117019-)
This poem describes "bats with baby faces" who crawl "head downward down a blackened wall" shortly after referencing an Antarctic expedition with the line "who is the third who walks always beside you?" A character in this poem remembers being told "Marie, hold on tight" while sledding. The narrator of this poem asks about "the (*) corpse you planted last year in your garden" to a dead man he sees in the "unreal city" of London. This poem tells "Gentile or Jew" to remember a man who was once "handsome and tall as you," the Phoenician sailor Phlebas. The bar-call "hurry up please it's time" appears in this poem, which features Tiresias and Madame Sosostris and ends with the words "shantih shantih shantih." For 10 points, name this poem that opens "April is the cruelest month" and was written by T. S. Eliot.
"The Waste Land"
7

117029-)
. This novel repeatedly describes how two people were "famous for mathematics" and "famous for sex." A character in this novel creates an imaginary policewoman named Sergeant Anne Gray and also fantasizes about adventuring in the Highlands with Alan Breck from Kidnapped. The main character of this novel frequently uses the phrase "crÃ¨me de la crÃ¨me" and visits a nun who is called the "Sister of the Transfiguration." The one-armed painter Teddy Lloyd has an affair with his model (*) Dora in this novel. In this novel, Joyce Emily dies while fighting in the Spanish Civil War, and Sandy betrays the title character years after comprising one of the six girls in her "set." For 10 points, name this novel about a Fascism-loving teacher by Muriel Spark.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie
7

117036-)
In this play, a woman pretends to be insane by talking about "Egypt-clay-leg" and "Gog-clay-leg." A character in this play is gagged with a piece of gingerbread and thrown in a privy after being pinched by men posing as elves and robbed during a meeting with the "Queen of Fairy." In this play, two holy brethren from Amsterdam, Tribulation Wholesome and (*) Ananias, claim that counterfeiting is lawful. One of its characters disguises himself as a Spaniard to woo Dame Pliant and save Sir Epicure Mammon. Before this play begins, Lovewit flees the city to escape the plague, leading Doll Common and Subtle to set up a con in his house. For 10 points, name this play in which Subtle pretends to be able to create the philosopher's stone, a work of Ben Jonson.
The Alchemist
7

117073-)
In a story set in this region, the narrator listens to a sermon ending "O God, mun, you're like aÂ… cat," preached by his cousin from a "pulpit cart." A play set in this region features a man who reads The Lives of Great Poisoners and wants to kill his wife with poisoned porridge. The speaker of a poem set in this region describes being taken "Up to the swallow thronged loft by the shadow of my hand" after the end of the (*) "lamb white days." A fictional town in this region is home to the blind Captain Cat, and a farm in this region is described in a poem beginning "Now as I was young and easy under the apple boughs." A poet from this region wrote lines like "after the first death there is no other" and "rage, rage against the dying of the light." For 10 points, name this setting of Under Milk Wood and "Fern Hill," a country in the UK home to Dylan Thomas.
Wales [or Cymru; anti-prompt on more specific answers like "Swansea," "Llareggub," or "Fern Hill"; prompt on "United Kingdom" or "Great Britain"; do not accept "England"]
7

117100-)
A character in this play is said to have "groped for trout in a peculiar river." Another of this play's characters claims death will cause the spirit "to reside in thrilling region of thick-ribbed ice" in its third act. When this play's female lead is told "the law hath not been dead, though it has slept," she responds "it is excellent to have a giant's strength, but it is tyrannous to use it like a giant." A subplot in this play concerns Abhorson's reluctance to execute the drunken prisoner (*) Barnardine. This play's villain ignores the advice of the wise Escalus and is tricked into having sex with his former fiancÃ©e Mariana in the dark. The plot of this play is set into motion when the Duke disguises himself as a friar and leaves Angelo in charge of Vienna. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Isabella fights for the life of her brother Claudio.
Measure for Measure
7

117118-)
This character tells a parable about two old women who eat some plums after climbing to the top of a pillar. While at a brothel, this character imagines Siamese twins called Drunk and Sober before a vision of his mother's ghost leads him to smash a chandelier and flee. He is thrown into a barbed wire fence by his classmates for liking Byron. This character thinks about his love interest Emma while listening to a (*) fiery sermon on hell. After breaking his glasses, this character is beaten on the palms by Father Dolan. In one appearance, this character lives in a Martello tower with Buck Mulligan, and another novel begins with him listening to a story about a "moocow." For 10 points, name this protagonist of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man by James Joyce.
Stephen J. Dedalus [accept either name]
7

117143-)
This novel's antagonist has a young valet who often walks on his hands and eventually digs up his master's corpse after it is buried with a stake through the heart at a crossroads. After staying with a schoolmaster who is heartbroken by the death of a sick pupil, the protagonist of this novel gets a job giving tours of a traveling waxworks. In this novel, a mistreated servant nicknamed "the Marchioness" marries Dick (*) Swiveller, a rascal who frees the protagonist's friend Kit. Crowds mobbed the docks of New York City to read the maudlin ending of this novel, in which the protagonist dies from a journey to the countryside while being pursued by the evil dwarf Daniel Quilp. For 10 points, name this Charles Dickens novel in which the orphan Nell Trent has to leave the title store.
The Old Curiosity Shop
7

117147-)
The speaker of a poem by this man claims "Death is no different whined at than withstood" after describing "Waking at four to soundless dark." In another poem, this man described "A serious house on serious earth," where the speaker donates an Irish sixpence and recalls proclaiming "Here endeth" too loudly at a lectern. This man described people led astray by "fools in old-style hats and coats" in a poem that claims (*) "Man hands on misery to man." A poem by this author of "Aubade" ends with the speaker admonishing "Get out as early as you can, and don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this English poet of "Church Going" who wrote "They fuck you up, your mum and dad" in "This Be The Verse."
Philip Larkin
7

117173-)
This man compared the death of his niece to Apollo's slaying of Hyacinth in a poem describing her as a "Fairest flower no sooner blown but blasted." The speaker of another poem by this man describes one figure as a "Sweet Bird that shunn'st the noise of folly" and a "pensive Nun, devout and pure, Sober, stedfast, and demure." This poet of "On the Death of a Fair Infant Dying of a Cough," wrote a poem whose speaker wishes to attain "somthing like Prophetic strain" while occupying a (*) "Hairy Gown and Mossy Cell." This man described how his "soul more bent to serve therewith my Maker" in a poem that laments his blindness. For 10 points, name this poet of "When I consider how my light is spent" and "Il Penseroso" who also wrote Paradise Lost.
John Milton
7

117204-)
12. A character created by this author frequently whistles "The Last Rose of Summer" to himself and is assisted by a boy with bulging eyes nicknamed "Gooseberry." An actress in a novel by this author eventually marries Captain Kirke after wooing Frank Clare and discovering that her will was invalidated when her father died in a train crash. Another character in a novel by him catches typhus while lying on a roof in the rain to overhear the plot of (*) Percival, who intends to pay his debt using money gained from a marriage to her half-sister Laura Fairlie. This author of No Name wrote a novel in which Sergeant Cuff attempts to find the title object, which is stolen from Rachel Verinder by Godfrey Ablewhite. For 10 points, name this author of The Woman in White and The Moonstone.
William Wilkie Collins
7

117210-)
. Some old librarians beat this character because he once destroyed a rare book on snowflakes. While in the hospital, this character is shown pictures of a bird's nest and a peacock and is visited by a man he calls the Minister of the Inferior. After tripping over a milk saucer, this character is attacked by some cats and an elderly woman, whom he accidentally murders. In the first chapter, he asks (*) "what's it going to be then, eh?" and dons a Benjamin Disraeli mask after leaving the Korova Milkbar. This character refers to himself as "your humble narrator," and speaks a slang called Nadsat with his droogs Pete and Dim. For 10 points, name this ultraviolent Beethoven enthusiast, the protagonist of Anthony Burgess's A Clockwork Orange.
Alex [prompt on "Your Humble Narrator" or "6655321"]
7

117229-)
. The voice of a woman in this story is compared to that of a barn swallow. A character in this story is described as unassuming and "lyke a mayden meke for to see" and owns a psaltery on which he sings the "Angelus ad Virginem" and the now lost "Kynges Noote." That character in this story feigns madness by sitting up in bed and staring at the wall. An upset character visits the smith Gerveys in this story, whose prologue is interrupted angrily by the Reeve. At the climax of this story, a branded man shouting (*) "Water!" causes a carpenter to sever the ropes tying his bathtub to the ceiling and crash to the floor. In this story, the parish clerk Absolon vies for the hand of Alisoun with Nicholas, a student who is living with John. For 10 points, name this Canterbury Tale, told immediately after the Knight's Tale by the drunk flour-maker Robyn.
The Miller's Tale
7

117262-)
This man is addressed as "Dear son of memory, great heir of fame" in a poem titled for him that exclaims "What need'st thou such weak witness of thy name!" Erskine becomes obsessed with a theory that this man was in love with a youth named Willie Hughes in a short story by Oscar Wilde. John Milton addressed this man's "honoured bones" in a poem titled "On [him]". He was praised for writing about "the genuine progeny of common humanity" in an introduction to his works by (*) Samuel Johnson. He's not Edward Gibbon, but his works were heavily censored by Thomas Bowdler. Virginia Woolf imagined the disadvantages that would have been faced by this man's imaginary sister, Judith, growing up in Stratford-upon- Avon. For 10 points, name this English author of As You Like It.
William Shakespeare
5

117272-)
A 2011 play about this character was produced in collaboration between Rokia Traore, Peter Sellars, and Toni Morrison. According to some historians, performing this role made Margaret Hughes the first professional actress in England. She mentions a "poor soul" who "sat sighing by the sycamore tree" while reciting a ditty learned from her mother's maid Barbara, her "willow song". This character is compared to a "white ewe" in a scene in which (*) Roderigo and another character wake her father Brabantio. Her handkerchief is picked up by Emilia, after which it is used to frame Michael Cassio in a scheme that results in this character being suffocated to death. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean character who is murdered after Iago dupes her husband Othello.
Desdemona
5

117297-)
One character in this novel is almost seduced with the help of her governess Mrs. Young, until she confesses to her brother. Another character in this novel claims to be going to Gretna Green, but winds up in London, where she is found by her uncle Mr. Gardiner. A clergyman in this novel boasts of his connections at Rosings, and after being rejected by the main character, he marries Charlotte Lucas. That character, Mr. Collins, serves Lady Catherine de Bourgh. Other characters who marry in this novel include Mr. Wickham and Lydia, as well as Jane and Mr. Bingley. For 10 points, name this novel in which Mr. Darcy proposes twice to Elizabeth Bennet, written by Jane Austen.
Pride and Prejudice
4

117321-)
This man asked "Who would believe me, if I swear / That I have had the plague a year" in one poem and noted that he was a "little world made cunningly of elements" in another. Aside from writing "The Broken Heart," this poet noted that the title figure "suck'd me first, and now sucks thee" in a poem that uses being bitten by an insect as a euphemism for sex. In another poem this author told the addressee that "thy firmness makes my circle just / and makes me end, where I begun." That work is "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning." For 10 points, name this Metaphysical poet famous for lines like "Death, be not proud," "No man is an island," and "Therefore, send not to know for whom the bell tolls, it tolls for thee."
John Donne
4

117336-)
The title character of an unfinished poem by this man encounters Geraldine, who claims to have been abducted. Another poem by this man ends with an image of "silent icicles / quietly shining to the quiet moon," and describes how the titular phenomenon "performs its secret ministry." In addition to "Frost at Midnight," this author wrote a poem which features a "damsel with a dulcimer" and earlier describes the River Alph running down to a sunless sea. The title emperor of that poem lives in Xanadu and decrees a "stately pleasure dome." For 10 points, name this poet of "Kubla Khan" who also wrote about the slaying of an albatross in The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
4

117361-)
15.	In a posthumously published collection of this man's poems, Andrew Marvell attacked critics as "Word-peckers, Paper-rats," and "Book-scorpions". His poem addressed to Charles Cotton describes how "The joys of earth and air are thine entire". This author of "The Grasshopper" ended another poem with the couplet "I could not love thee, Dear, so much, / Loved I not honor more". "Enlarged wings that curl the flood" and "fishes that (*) tipple in the deep" are among the things that "know no such liberty" according to a poem by this man that also includes the famous line "Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage". For 10 points, name this Cavalier poet of "To Lucasta, Going to the Wars" and "To Althea from Prison". 
Richard Lovelace 
5

117376-)
This man's minor works include The Little Man, Saint's Progress, and The Burning Spear. In hismajor work, an affair with Prosper Profond is tolerated due to its discreetness, and because (*)Annette Lamotte was expected to die in childbirth anyway. The relationship between Old and YoungJolyon is the first plot thread in, for 10 pointsÂ— what author's The Man of Property, his first Forstye book? 
John Galsworthy
8

117404-)
One character in this novel claims that he holds an "ace" in his hand because he has evidence that the coffin of the spy Roger Cly is empty. Earlier in this work, Gaspard avenges himself on a man whose carriage had run over his son, and that man's family is denounced by a letter found in another character's former prison cell. At the end of this novel, Miss Pross and Jerry Cruncher help Lucy escape from the murderous Madame Defarge, while her husband Charles Darnay is rescued by an alcoholic lawyer who sacrifices himself to the guillotine. For 10 points, name this Dickens novel about Sydney Carton and the French Revolution, which begins, "It was the best of times."
A Tale of Two Cities
4

117426-)
The protagonist of this novel breaks his arm while trying to stop a runaway band of horses, and he finds an empty muff on his bed that he recognizes as belonging to the woman he loves. The servant Black George helps that character deliver messages to his lover, who is forced into accepting Master Blifil as her fiance. The protagonist is surprised to learn that Mr. Partridge is not, in fact, his father, but that he is actually Mrs. Blifil's son, making him Squire Allworthy's nephew. For 10 points, name this novel in which the titular foundling pursues his love for Sophia Western, written by Henry Fielding.
The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling
4

117451-)
After hearing that a man is crying, a character in this play replies: "Then he's living." A character in this play tells a story about an Englishman frustrated that it took God only six days to create the world, when his tailor needs three months to make a pair of trousers. Another character in this play bestows the nickname "Old stancher" upon the large, bloodstained handkerchief covering his face. An (*) elderly couple who lost their legs in a biking accident in the Ardennes and live inside trash cans, named Nagg and Nell, torment their wheelchair-bound son and his always-standing servant in this play. For 10 points, name this one-act play about Hamm and Clov with a chess-inspired title, written by Samuel Beckett.
Endgame [or Fin de partie]
5

117479-)
One character in this novel tells of how he stared at the blank spaces on a map as a child. The protagonist waits for a month for a supply of rivets, and another character is killed by a spear when he leans out of a window. A Russian traveller in this novel warns the protagonist that whistles will be more use than guns. The protagonist, who tells his story aboard The Nellie, debates whether to tell the truth about a man's last words to his fiance in Belgium. That man, who had lived in a house surrounded by decapitated heads, utters, "The horror! The horror!" For 10 points, name this novel in which Marlow searches for Mr. Kurtz in the Congo, written by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness
4

117483-)
One woman in this short story claims "you never cross O'Connell Bridge without seeing a white horse." Its protagonist gives the maid Lily some money after he embarrassingly mentions her marriage prospects, and later imagines a painting of his wife titled "Distant Music." This story's protagonist is called a "West Briton" by Molly Ivors for his refusal to vacation in the Aran Islands. This short story contains a performance of "The Lass of Aughrim" by tenor (*) Bartell D'Arcy at a dinner party thrown by the Morkan sisters. The protagonist's wife Gretta reveals her childhood love affair with a man who died waiting outside her window in the rain, Michael Furey. Gabriel Conroy has an emotional crisis in, for 10 points, what final short story from James Joyce's Dubliners?
"The Dead"
5

117488-)
This character questions the opinion that genitals are only used to expel urine and to distinguish between the sexes, referring to an individual's sexual ability as one's "belle chose." This character engages in the cloth trade at Ypres and Gaunt and refuses to perform the church offering unless she is the first one to offer. This character rips a page out of a book after hearing abuses against (*) women read out loud from it, prompting her husband Jankyn to strike her. In a tale told by this character, a knight rapes a woman and, as part of a punishment devised by Guinevere, discovers that what women want is sovereignty. For 10 points, name this woman who has been married five times, a pilgrim in The Canterbury Tales.
the Wife of Bath [or Alisoun]
5

117509-)
This author wrote a play in which Gerald is the illegitimate son of Mrs. Arbuthnot and Lord Illingworth, and another in which the machinations of Lady Cheveley to secure a South American canal through Robert Chilternare thwarted by Lord Goring. In addition to A Woman of No Importance and An Ideal Husband, this author wrote a play in which Mrs. Erlynne sacrifices her reputation to preserve the title character's, and another in which Reverend Chasuble and Miss Prism fall in love. For 10 points, name this author of Lady Windemere's Fan, who wrote of Gwendolyn and Cecily and their lovers Jack and Algernon in The Importance of Being Earnest.
Oscar (Finghals O'Flahertie Wills) Wilde
4

117532-)
In Rousseau's Emile, the only book Emile can read before age 12 is named for this character. The fictional novelist Daniel Foe fictionalizes Susan Barton's encounter with this character in a novel by J. M. Coetzee, andin the novel in which this character most famously appears, he fights off wolves in the Pyrenees. This man takes up occupancy on the Island of Despair, and he decides he has no right to kill uneducated cannibals.This character famously sees a footprint on the beach. For 10 points, name this character who names his friend after the day of the week he met him, a Friday, created by Daniel Defoe and based off shipwrecked sailor Alexander Selkirk.
Robinson Crusoe
4

117561-)
One character in this play describes himself as "too much i' the sun," and warns another character "There are more things in heaven and earth... than are dreamt of in your philosophy." That character's last line in this play is: "The rest is silence." Another character warns his son to "Neither a borrower nor a lender be." In another speech from this play, the speaker hopes "to sleep--perchance to dream--ay, there's the rub," and wonders whether taking arms "against a sea of troubles" or "suffer the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune" is better. For 10 points, name this play which advises "to thine own self be true" and asks "to be, or not to be," written by William Shakespeare.
The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
4

117578-)
One character with an odd birthmark goes missing after a forest fire in this novel, and a boy in this novel constantly repeats his name and address. Another character has blood smeared on his face and kicks sand in a small child's eyes. Although that character, Maurice, later feels bad, his friend Roger shows no regrets. Many characters in this novel venture to "The Scar" to build a fire with one character's glasses. A dreamy character in this novel named Simon is killed when other boys mistake him for "the Beast." For 10 points, Jack and Ralph square off for leadership of a lost group of boys and Piggy is killed by a boulder in this novel by William Golding.
The Lord of the Flies
4

117608-)
In a play by this writer, Mollie and Giles Ralston run a guesthouse that opens during a huge snowstorm. That play is based on the story "Three Blind Mice". One novel by this writer takes place after Cassetti kidnapped and murdered Daisy Armstrong in the United States, and that novel involves many of Daisy's relatives traveling in disguise. One novel by this writer centers around Emily Inglethorp dying of strychnine poisoning and the investigation carried out by a Belgian immigrant. Name this author of The Mysterious Affair at Styles and Murder on the Orient Express who wrote about the detectives Miss Marple and Hercule Poirot.
Agatha (Mary Clarissa Miller) Christie
3

117616-)
The speaker of this poem compares himself and the addressee to "birds of prey" that "rather at once our time devour / Than languish in his slow chapp'd power." The speaker then requests to "let us roll all our strength and all / Our sweetness, up into one ball," in order that he and the addressee might tear through "the iron gates of life." This poem notes fears of "deserts of vast eternity" and how "Time's winged chariot" is hurrying near, before the speaker tells his addressee that "His vegetable love should grow / vaster than empires, and more slow." For 10 points, name this poem that begins "Had we but world enough and time," written by Andrew Marvell.
"To His Coy Mistress"
4

117620-)
The speaker of this poem imagines that "a magic lantern threw the nerves in patterns on a screen," and spends the afternoon malingering "stretched on the floor, here between you and me." This poem notes that the speaker was meant to be an attendant lord or "a pair of ragged claws," and proclaims "No! I am not Prince Hamlet!" Questions in this work include, "Do I dare disturb the universe?" and "Do I dare to eat a peach?", spoken before the speaker sees "mermaids singing each to each" on a beach. This poem's refrain describes women that "come and go, / Talking of Michelangelo." For 10 points, name this poem which begins, "Let us go then, you and I," written by T. S. Eliot.
The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock
4

117653-)
One section of this work borrows from Ovid, with the story of a man whose white crow alerts him of his wife's infidelity, to which that man responds by turning the crow black. In another section of this work, the clerk Absolon kisses two other characters' bottoms, and Nicholas and Alison enjoy a night together while Alison's husband prepares for a great flood. The first story from this work sees Arcite and Palamon compete for the hand of Emily, while in another part Sir Salvio must learn what women want most in the world. For 10 points, name this work in which lots of people tell stories on their way to the shrine of Thomas a Becket, written by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales
4

117671-)
The speaker of this poem remarks of his addressee's face that is "where thoughts serenely sweet express / how pure, how dear, their dwelling place," and the poet praises the addressee for "A mind at peace with all below / A heart whose love is innocent." He notes that "All that's best of dark and bright / Meet in her aspect and her eyes" before remarking upon the "nameless grace which waves in every raven tress." For 10 points, name this poem, in which the darkness is that of "cloudless climes and starry skies," and a woman performs the titular action "like the night," by Lord Byron.
"She Walks in Beauty"
4

117676-)
This author wrote a novel in which the mortician Mr. Joyboy and Dennis Barlow compete for the hand of Aimee Thanatogenos. In another novel, this author of The Loved One wrote of Margot Beste-Chetwynde's engagement to Paul Pennyfeather. This author created Tony Last, who travels to the Amazon to escape his cheating wife Brenda. His most famous novel features the powerful Marchmain family as well as the alcoholic Sebastian Flyte. For 10 points, name this Catholic English novelist who wrote A Handful of Dust and created the character Charles Ryder in his novel Brideshead Revisited.
Arthur Evelyn (St. John) Waugh
4

117732-)
Early in this novel, the protagonist is awakened from a dream about the "Golden Country" in which a girl disrobes and runs toward him by the high-pitched whistle announcing it's time for the exercise program called "The Physical Jerks." The protagonist of this work sees his later romantic interest attack the screen during one of the daily iterations of the Two Minutes Hate, at which Emmanuel Goldstein is reviled as an enemy of the state. The protagonist of this work and Julia are arrested and sent to the Ministry of Love, where O'Brien tortures Winston Smith. FTP what novel by George Orwell describes Oceania under the control of Big Brother?
1984
6

117757-)
The speaker of this poem describes men who are "deaf even to the hoots/Of tired, outstripped Five Nines." Those shells lead to an "ecstasy of fumbling," after which the speaker sees "as [if] under a green sea" a man "drowning" with blood "gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs." This scene makes the speaker admonish the reader to not "tell with such high zest" the title phrase. FTP what poem by Wilfred Owen describes as "that old lie" a Latin phrase that means "It is sweet and fitting to die for one's country."
"Dulce et Decorum Est"
6

117805-)
This poet wrote "In the spring a young man's fancy / lightly turns to thoughts of love" in a poem about the narrator's unrequited love for his cousin Amy that is titled for a childhood home. A work of his describes nature as "red in tooth and claw." That poem was written after the death of Arthur Hallam and states "'Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all." Another of his poems describes an event in which "Into the valley of death / Rode the six hundred." For 10 points, name this poet of "Locksley Hall" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade."
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
6

117842-)
The second section of this poem sees a speaker note, "I think we are in rats' alley/Where the dead men lost their bones." At the end of the first section the speaker quotes from "Au Lecteur" of Fleurs du Mal after calling London an "unreal city." Phlebas the Phoenician, "once handsome and tall as you," is described in its short fourth section, "Death by Water." Ending with a repetition of the Hindu word for peace, "shantih," is, FTP, what 1922 Modernist poem which begins, "April is the cruelest month," written by T.S. Eliot?
"The Waste Land"
6

117858-)
This writer depicted the namesake character's attempt to bite Robert Browning in a fictional biography of Elizabeth Barrett's cocker spaniel. This writer translated Dostoevsky's The Devils for The Hogarth Press, which she founded with her husband Leonard. Another novel by this author of Flush chronicles the 300-plus years of the title author of "The Oak Tree" who changes from man to woman. Prior to writing Orlando this member of the Bloomsbury Group chronicled one day in the life of Clarissa, who learns of Septimus Smith's suicide at her evening party. FTP name this author of Mrs. Dalloway and To the Lighthouse.
Virginia Woolf
6

117926-)
In this novel, Barney, the bartender at The Three Cripples, is an evil Jewish caricature. The title character is blamed for the theft of a handkerchief from Mr. Brownlow, though Charley Bates and Jack Dawkins are guilty. Charley's cries of fear after the murder of the kindly prostitute Nancy by Bill Sikes lead to Sikes's capture by a mob in this novel. The other boy thief, Dawkins, is better known as the Artful Dodger. "Please, sir, I want some more," earns the protagonist a severe beating in, FTP, what Victorian novel by Charles Dickens?
Oliver Twist
6

118267-)
Late in this poem, a man "'Brushing with hasty steps the dews away / 'To meet the sun upon the upland lawn" is described by the "hoary-headed swain" who narrates five of its final stanzas. The speaker of this poem describes how "uncouth rhymes" and "shapeless sculpture" bedeck objects that also bear names and years "spelt by the unlettered muse". It also imagines how "Chill penury" repressed the "noble rage" of a "heart once pregnant with (*) celestial fire". This poem's speaker imagines a "Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood" or a "mute inglorious Milton" inhabiting this poem's title location, from which a ploughman "plods his weary way" as "the curfew tolls the knell of parting day". For 10 points, name this meditation on death, an elegy by Thomas Gray.
"Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"
5

118506-)
One of his novels follows a companion of Captain Fielding who becomes a confidant of GustavusAdolphus. He also crated the Quaker surgeon William Walters, who persuades another titlecharacter to give up piracy. In addition to (*) Memoirs of a Cavalier and Captain Singleton, he wroteabout a 1655 epidemic in London and about a woman who accidentally marries her brother. For 10pointsÂ— name this author of Moll Flanders and Robinson Crusoe. 
Daniel Defoe
8

118548-)
One poem in this collection describes "this brain that fills the skull with schemes," and anotherrefers to "the still air of the speechless night, when lovers crown their vows." It also notes "the oldcow, she is dead" in a poem about someone who (*) eats his "victuals fast enough," and recalls "the timeyou won your town the race." For 10 pointsÂ— "To An Athlete Dying Young" appears in what volume byA.E. Housman?
A Shropshire Lad
8

118568-)
This man expressed a desire to "unsphere / the spirit of Plato to unfold / what worlds or what vastregions hold / the immortal mind" in a poem that features invocations of Saturn, Vesta, and Urania. He declares "Mirth, with thee I mean to live" at the end of one poem, while in that poem's companion, he dismissed "vain deluding joys" in favor of "divinest Melancholy". In a non-fiction work, this man asserted that "he who destroys a good (*) book, kills reason itself." He coined the phrase "they also serve who only stand and wait" in a sonnet that begins with the line "When I consider how my light is spent" and reflects on his blindness. For 10 points, name this author of "L'Allegro" and "Il Penseroso", as well as Areopagitica and the epic poem Paradise Lost.
 John Milton
5

118620-)
An old man in this novel says that the hardest things in life to deal with are "muddles." This novel's protagonist earns the ire of the Alan sisters after failing to get them Cissie House, a summer home near Windy Corner. In this novel, the pseudonym "Joseph Emery Prank" is used by Eleanor Lavish, who takes away the protagonist's Baedeker before she enters the Santa Croce. This novel's protagonist breaks off an engagement to the snobbish (*) Cecil Vyse. At the beginning of this novel, the protagonist arrives in the Pension Bertolini in Florence with her cousin Charlotte Bartlett, and meets George Emerson while complaining about not being given the title accommodation. For 10 points, name this novel about Lucy Honeychurch by E.M. Forster.
A Room with a View
5

118643-)
A character in this novel uses a golden chain given to her by one man to wear the amber cross given to her by another. The betrayal represented by her sister's sudden elopement causes a woman in this novel to run off with Yates, her libertine brother's best friend. Two characters in this novel flirt during a racy amateur production of Elizabeth Inchbald's play (*) Lovers' Vows. A climactic event in this novel is a character's return from a year spent tending to his plantation in Antigua. The penurious Mrs. Norris is the antagonist of this novel, which begins with the daughter of a disabled, alcoholic naval lieutenant being sent to live with the Bertram family in the title estate. For 10 points, name this novel about Fanny Price, the third by Jane Austen.
Mansfield Park
5

118713-)
It contains a "praise of digressions" and opens by praising Lord Somers in a parody of dedications.Including a description of the Aeoloists, who worship human wind machines, its title comes from anallegory in the book about (*) sailors who attempt to throw out a decoy an avoid being shipwrecked bywhales. Discussing Peter, Martin, and Jack's inheritance of similar coats, for 10 pointsÂ— name thisreligious satire by Jonathan Swift.
A Tale of a Tub
8

118946-)
In one of this man's novels, the Catholic sculptor Hortense criticizes her gay brother, the writerKenneth Toomey. In addition to Earthly Powers, this man wrote about the Earl of Southampton'saffair with Fatima, which followed that man's involvement with a poet who wrote about Fatima asthe (*) Dark Lady. This author of Nothing Like the Sun also created the Ludovico Technique and nadsat inthe story of Alex. For 10 pointsÂ— name this writer of A Clockwork Orange.
Anthony Burgess
8

118971-)
One of his novels discusses the sale of jewelry to buy a horse named Cockbird for George Sherston,who appears in both his Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man and Memoirs of an Infantry Officer. A poemby this man noted that "the jolly old rain" came after a group "blind with smoke" (*) "gained ourfirst objective." For 10 pointsÂ— name this poet of "Counter-Attack," a World War I writer who mentoredWilfred Owen.
Siegfried Sassoon
8

119012-)
After quoting some skeptical Pharisees from the Book of Matthew, this poem's speaker cribs a phrase from aLancelot Andrewes sermon about an infant "unable to speak a word." This poem includes an image of "whitefeathers in the snow" after describing the violent winds at the straits of Belle Isle and at the Horn. This poem'sfifth stanza is a discourse on "History" which notes that "she gives when our attention is distracted." It coins theterm (*) "juvescence" to describe when the time of year when "Came Christ the tiger." This poem introduces thecharacters Fraulein von Kulp, Madame de Tornquist, Hakagawa and Mr. Silvero. It opens with its speaker "beingread to by a boy, waiting for rain." For 10 points, name this poem about "an old man in a dry month" by T.S. Eliot. 
"Gerontion" 
9

119018-)
The protagonist of this novel is arrested for assault after approaching a woman who he mistakes for aprostitute and attempting to convert her. Christina wins the right to marry the father of this novel's protagonistin a card game. As a child, the protagonist enrolls in Roughborough school, whose strict headmaster Dr. Skinnerreminds him of his father. The main character of this book is convinced by (*) Pryer to start a College of SpiritualPathology to treat ailments of the soul. This novel's narrator begins by relating the lives of its protagonist'sancestors, starting with his great-grandfather, a carpenter named Old John. This novel is narrated by EdwardOverton, the godfather and biographer of Theobald's son Ernest. For 10 points, name this novel about the Pontifexfamily by Samuel Butler
The Way of All Flesh
9

119035-)
An author from this country wrote a novel about a history teacher with a personal dualistic "mythology" whoreturns to his hometown and falls in love with both Gerda Torp and Christie Malakite. This country was home toan intellectual circle called the Kardomah Gang, which included a poet who repeated the phrase "I am dumb totell" in a poem about a phenomenon which (*) "drives my green age." The speaker of a poem from this country was"green and carefree, famous among the barns" and "young and easy under the apple boughs" and declares "timeheld me green and dying, though I sang in my chains like the sea." The aforementioned poems are "The Force thatThrough the Green Fuse Drives the Flower" and "Fern Hill." For 10 points, name this country which produced JohnCowper Powys and Dylan Thomas.
Wales [prompt on: "United Kingdom", "Great Britain"]
9

119043-)
In a short story whose title comes from this poem, the Jewish George Bland kills himself after being informedhe's not good enough to be a concert pianist. The speaker of this poem wishes to forget "where palsy shakes a few,sad last gray hairs" and "where youth grows pale, and spectre-thin, and dies." The speaker of this poem mentions"faery lands (*) forlorn," prompting him to exclaim that the word "forlorn" is like a bell "to toll me back from theeto my sole self." W. Somerset Maugham's story "Alien Corn" gets its title from this poem's line about "the sad heartof Ruth." This poem's speaker has "been half in love with easeful Death" and asks "Was it a vision, or a wakingdream?" For 10 points, name this Keats poem about an "immortal Bird."
 "Ode to a Nightingale"
9

119068-)
This author wrote the screenplay for Derek Jarman's film Wittgenstein. This man's criticism of the NewAtheists includes a lecture subtitled "Is Belief in Richard Dawkins Necessary for Salvation?" and a book whichcollectively refers to Christopher Hitchens and Richard Dawkins as "Ditchkins." Martin Amis's comments aboutIslamism started a feud with this man, who insulted Kingsley Amis in the preface to a new edition of his book (*)Ideology. His magnum opus is dedicated to Charles Swann and his teacher Raymond Williams, and begins bydiscussing "The Rise of English." That 1983 book is a survey of literary theory from the Romantics topostmodernism. For 10 points, name this British Marxist literary critic who wrote Literary Theory: An Introduction. 
Terence Francis "Terry" Eagleton
9

119073-)
An author with this surname wrote a novel in which Tom's wife Mary steals a baby after being left sterile by anabortion, and Tom's mentally handicapped brother Dick kills Freddie, thinking he is the one who impregnatedMary. Another author with this surname created a computer-like device called The Engine, which is one of thescientific devices found in the Academy of (*) Projectors in Lagado. That author may or may not have been secretlymarried to Esther Johnson. The author of Waterland shares this surname with an author who created twoneighboring islands who are at war over the correct way to crack open an egg. Those islands are Blefuscu andLilliput. For 10 points, give this surname of the satirist who wrote Gulliver's Travels. 
Swift
9

119099-)
 A character in a play by this author pretends to have a presentiment that there will be an earthquake or aviolent explosion to try to convince his wife to go to Paris with him. In that play, a couple uses the word "Sollocks"when they want to put a stop to one of their violent arguments. That play by this author is about Amanda andElyot, a divorced couple who coincidentally get (*) rooms next to each other on their honeymoons with their newspouses. In another of his plays, Ruth dies in a car crash when her husband's car is sabotaged by his first wife. Inthat play, the maid Edith accidentally causes Charles's first wife, Elvira, to materialize during a seance led byMadame Arcati. For 10 points, name this playwright of Private Lives and Blithe Spirit. 
NoÃ«l Coward
9

119119-)
 A character in a play by this author pretends to have a presentiment that there will be an earthquake or aviolent explosion to try to convince his wife to go to Paris with him. In that play, a couple uses the word "Sollocks"when they want to put a stop to one of their violent arguments. That play by this author is about Amanda andElyot, a divorced couple who coincidentally get (*) rooms next to each other on their honeymoons with their newspouses. In another of his plays, Ruth dies in a car crash when her husband's car is sabotaged by his first wife. Inthat play, the maid Edith accidentally causes Charles's first wife, Elvira, to materialize during a seance led byMadame Arcati. For 10 points, name this playwright of Private Lives and Blithe Spirit. 
NoÃ«l Coward
9

119133-)
The speaker of this poem laments that "the fever of the world" has "hung upon the beatings of my heart" before elaborating about a "wanderer thro' the woods." The speaker sees "hedge-rows, hardly hedge-rows" and notices "some Hermit's cave, where by his fire/the Hermit sits alone." After recognizing (*) "gleams of half-extinguished thought",  the speaker of this poem notes that "The picture of the mind revives again." This poem ends as an address to the poet's sister Dorothy, and it begins noting that "five years have past." For 10 points, name this poem composed on a return to the River Wye by William Wordsworth.
"Lines Composed a Few Miles above Tintern Abbey, on Revisiting the Banks of the Wye during a Tour, July 13, 1798"
3

119165-)
A group of characters in this work are called "rude mechanicals" by another character who asks if he possesses "unearned luck" in a speech later in this play. Another monologue in this play begins "The lunatic, the lover, and the poet." One character in this work procures a juice from the love-in-idleness flower. A group of workmen perform (*) Pyramus and Thisbe in this play, in which Titania falls in love with Nick Bottom while he has a donkey's head. In this play, Lysander and Demetrius eventually fall in love with Hermia and Helena, respectively. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean comedy that features Puck, a fairy messing around with the feelings of four lovers in the woods.
A Midsummer Night's Dream
3

119188-)
This poem rather problematically calls woman "a lesser man" because "woman's pleasure, woman's pain" are"blinder motions bounded in a shallower brain." Colum McCann's novel Let the Great World Spin gets its title fromthis poem. This poem mentions how "In the spring a young man's fancy lightly turns to thoughts of love." Thespeaker of this poem imagines "the nations' airy navies (*) grappling in the central blue" as part of his vision of thefuture, which fails to come true in this poem's sequel set "Sixty Years After." The speaker of this poem angrilyrecalls how his cousin Amy spurned his love. This poem's speaker is a soldier passing by the title building, whichbrings up memories of his youth. For 10 points, name this dramatic monologue by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
"Locksley Hall"
9

119221-)
Obesity hypoventilation syndrome is sometimes named after this novel because a character named Joe suffersfrom it. In this novel, the misanthropic sexton Gabriel Grub is kidnapped by goblins, who teach him to be a betterperson. A character in this novel is first seen polishing eleven and a half pairs of shoes, the half pair being for aman with a "vooden leg," at the White Hart Inn. In this novel, (*) Arabella Allen elopes with Nathaniel Winkle, andRachael Wardle tries to elope with Alfred Jingle. This novel's most popular character frequently quotes proverbs,appending them with the tag "as the x said to the y." That character, Sam Weller, works as the protagonist's valet.For 10 points, name this Charles Dickens novel about the members of the title club.
The Pickwick Papers [or: The Posthumous Papers of the Pickwick Club]
9

119228-)
This poet was greatly annoyed by a musical setting of one of his poems because it omitted two verses, and thecomposer responded that "a poet should be grateful to anyone who fails to perpetuate" a certain pair of lines fromthe poem. Frederick Kiddie accompanied the tenor Gervase Elwes at the premiere of a song cycle based on hispoetry. Eleven of his poems were set to music by a composer who also wrote a rhapsody inspired by his poetry,George (*) Butterworth. A song cycle based on this poet's works ends with the song "Clun." Ralph VaughanWilliams set six of his poems in the song cycle On Wenlock Edge. For 10 points, name this poet who inspired GeorgeButterworth's Six Songs from A Shropshire Lad.
A. E. Housman [or: Alfred Edward Housman]
9

119252-)
A doctor says that this character is representative of "the beginning of the coming universal wish not to live."After this character's suicide, an organist is heard playing "Truly God is loving unto Israel." When he watches aprocession of people in red robes during a Remembrance Day celebration, he remarks that it looks like JudgmentDay. This character's grandparents send him alone on a ship from Australia to England. This character's actionslead his (*) stepmother to resume her relationship with Richard Phillotson. This character hangs himself and twoother children, leaving a note saying "Done because we are too menny." For 10 points, name this morose son ofJude in Jude the Obscure, whose nickname suggests that he is wise beyond his years.
Little Father Time [or: Little Jude Fawley; prompt on: "Fawley"; before "Jude" is mentioned, prompt on: "Jude's son", descriptions]
9

119277-)
 A character named after this one adopts the alias of "Adam Selene" as a leader of the lunar independencemovement; that character is a sentient supercomputer from Robert Heinlein's The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress. Inthis character's first appearance, his neighbor Mr. Melas discovers that Paul Kratides is being held captive byHarold Latimer when Latimer kidnaps him and forces him to translate (*) Greek. As a government worker, hehopes to track down some missing submarine plans in the story "The Bruce-Partington Plans." This co-founder ofthe Diogenes Club is extremely lazy and unambitious despite being more intelligent than his younger brother. For10 points, name this brother of Sherlock Holmes. 
Mycroft Holmes [or: Mycroft Holmes] 
9

119365-)
This speech personifies war as a man who "capers nimbly in a lady's chamber to the lascivious pleasing of alute" and as a "grim-visaged" man who "hath smooth'd his wrinkled front." The arrival of another characterprompts the deliverer of this speech to say "Dive, thoughts, down to my soul." The deliverer of this speechlaments that he is (*) "rudely stamp'd" and that dogs bark at him when he stops by them, and since his deformitymeans that he "cannot prove a lover," he is "determined to prove a villain" by setting Clarence and the king againsteach other. This speech begins by mentioning a time period which is "made glorious summer by this sun of York."For 10 points, name this soliloquy by Gloucester which opens Shakespeare's Richard III.
"Now is the winter of our discontent" [prompt on: anything indicating that it's Gloucester's speech at the beginning of Richard III]
9

119374-)
One character created by this man, Henry Knight, hangs off a cliff in an incident considered to be the origin of the word "cliffhanger." In a novel by this man, Dick Dewy falls in love with Fanny Day, and in another, Giles Winterborne dies after allowing his love, Grace Melbury, to sleep in his house even though he is sick. This author of A Pair of Blue Eyes and The (*) Woodlanders wrote about Gabriel Oak's eventually reciprocated love for Bathsheba Everdene in one work, and about a woman who falls in love with Angel Clare and gives birth to a baby named Sorrow. For 10 points, name this author of Far From the Madding Crowd and Tess of the d'Urbervilles. 
Thomas Hardy
3

119392-)
One of this man's characters describes a "personal God" before babbling "quaquaquaqua". Another of his plays features May's possible dead mother, and a woman sits in a chair in this man's Rockaby. This author of Footfalls created two characters who remain in (*) trash cans for the entire play in which they appear. This man, who depicted Nell and Nagg in a post-apocalyptic world in one work, included the slave Lucky and his master Pozzo in his best-known drama. In that work, Vladimir and Estragon perform the title action for the entire play. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of Endgame and Waiting for Godot.
Samuel Beckett
3

119422-)
A character in this novel utters phrases like "Never put off till tomorrow the fun you can have today" and "One cubic centimeter cures ten gloomy sentiments" while sleeping. In this novel, a crowd chants "We want the whip" after the self-flagellation of a man living in an air-lighthouse is filmed. On a trip to New Mexico, this novel's protagonist meets Linda and her son, with whom the protagonist returns to London. In this novel, Helmholtz Watson and Bernard Marx are banished to remote islands by Mustapha Mond. This novel's character John the Savage does not enjoy the use of soma. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley.
Brave New World
6

119445-)
This character states "Ships are but boards, sailors but men", and he later justifies his actions by stating "The villany you teach me, I will execute." This character's late wife Leah gave him a turquoise ring that is stolen by his daughter and traded for a monkey, according to a report from Tubal. That daughter of this character, Jessica, eloped with Lorenzo, who is a friend of Bassanio. Portia rules that he is not allowed to remove any of Antonio's blood, foiling his belief that he is owed a pound of flesh. Name this moneylender from A Merchant of Venice who asks "Hath not a Jew eyes?"
Shylock
3

119537-)
A chapter of this novel consists almost entirely of Ernulphus's curse on a character for tying some knots. Thisnovel is dedicated to the moon because it drives people insane, but the narrator notes that the dedication in thenext edition can be bought for 50 guineas. This novel includes the story of Diego, a man whose enormous nosecauses an uproar in Strasbourg. A character in this novel becomes obsessed with the study of (*) projectiles afterstudying the siege of Namur. This novel is described as "a story about a Cock and a Bull" by Yorick. At the momentof its title character's conception, his mother asks his father if he remembered to wind the clock, but the titlecharacter's birth does not come until the third volume. For 10 points, name this digressive novel by LaurenceSterne.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman
9

119556-)
This poet imagined lovers thinking "Life might last! we can but try!" upon hearing "Those commiserating sevenths." This poet wrote "God's in His heaven / All's right with the world!" in a drama about a girl who observes the happiest people in Asolo. This poet of "A Toccata of Galuppi's" and Pippa Passes described a gift of cherries from "some officious fool" to a woman whose "looks went everywhere" in one work. The speaker strangles the title character with "all her hair / In one long yellow string" in his "Porphyria's Lover." He wrote about a figure painted by Fra Pandolf who had a "heart too soon made glad." For 10 points name this English poet of "My Last Duchess".
Robert Browning
6

119584-)
This author created a character who is told that stories "all talk of woman's fickleness", leading her to quip that "Men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story". During a trip to Lyme Regis in a novel by this author, Louisa Musgrove has a concussion. This author wrote a novel in which William Collins praises Rosings Park, the estate of Lady Catherine de Bourgh. In a novel by this writer, Lady Russell convinces Anne Elliott not to marry Frederick Wentworth. Another novel by this author ends with the engagement of Fitzwilliam Darcy and Elizabeth Bennet. For 10 points, name this author of Persuasion and Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen
6

119605-)
In one work, this man is compared to one of the "four and twenty Blackbirds in a pye" who fails in hisambition to become the only blackbird in the pie. In that work, he is called "my Epic Renegade" and"representative of all the race." This man, who was the first person to write down the Goldilocks story, attackedthe so-called "Satanic School" of poets in the preface to one of his poems. He wrote a poem in which (*) Old Kasparweakly tries to justify the carnage of a battle by repeatedly calling it a "famous victory." This target of the preface toThe Vision of Judgment was also the ironic dedicatee of Don Juan. Lord Byron hated, for 10 points, what Lake Poetwho wrote "After Blenheim"?
Robert Southey
9

119611-)
This author's writing on film includes an essay on the Keaton/Chaplin debate called "On First Looking intoChaplin's Humour" and a history of cinema in 100 film stills called Flickers. He wrote a novel about Matthew'sencounter with some cinema-obsessed incestuous siblings during the events of May 1968. Bertolucci's movie TheDreamers is based on this man's novel The Holy Innocents. Evadne Mount is the hero of his three detective novelswith Agatha Christie-inspired titles: The Act of (*) Roger Murgatroyd, A Mysterious Affair of Style, and And Then ThereWas No One. For 10 points, name this Scottish novelist who translated Georges Perec's La Disparition into English asA Void.
Gilbert Adair
9

119622-)
This poem originally appeared as the poem following "Brother Square-Toes" in the collection Rewardsand Fairies. It warns that truths can be "twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools" and suggests thatone's "heart and nerve and sinew" can be made subject to "the Will which says to them: 'Hold on'". Thispoem, which was inspired by the exploits of Leander Starr (*) Jameson, describes the "two imposters" of"triumph and disaster". It also encourages the addressee to "fill the unforgiving minute / with sixty seconds' worthof distance run" and to "keep your head when all about you / Are losing theirs and blaming it on you". For 10points, name this Rudyard Kipling poem that lays out the conditions by which "you'll be a Man, my son!"
"IfÂ–" 
5

119638-)
In this novel, a man claims to have an informant with a "blue welveteen waistcoat" named MichaelJackson. Birds with names like Hope, Joy, Ruin, and Despair are owned by Miss Flite in this novel. Nearits end, former soldier George Rouncewell touchingly reunites with his mother after being wrongfullyimprisoned. In this novel, an opium overdose kills a lodger at the rag and bottle shop owned by Mr.Krook, who (*) spontaneously combusts. That lodger, Captain Hawdon, is the father of this novel's narrator withLady Dedlock. In this novel, Richard Carston wastes away while pursuing the a case involving a man who becomesthe guardian of Esther Summerson at this novel's title estate. For 10 points, name this novel about the case ofJarndyce and Jarndyce, by Charles Dickens.
Bleak House
5

119653-)
A poem by this author states that "in the sea of life Â… we mortal millions live alone," comparing people toislands who feel they were once part of a single continent. In another poem, he describes a character who is "freefrom the sick fatigue" and "languid doubt" which plagues most people. The speaker of that poem by this authordeclares "No, no, thou hast not felt the (*) lapse of hours!" to try to convince himself that the title character is stillalive two hundred years. That poem, based on a story told by Joseph Glanvill, is about a man who leaves Oxford towander around. His most famous poem includes the memorable image of a "darkling plain." For 10 points, namethis poet of "To Marguerite," "The Scholar-Gipsy," and "Dover Beach."
Matthew Arnold
9

119685-)
In one poem by this author "the green lizard, and the golden snake, like unimprisoned flames," who "out of theirtrance awake," are used to describe the passing of the seasons during which "grief returns with the revolving year."This author states that "some yet live, treading the thorny road, / Which leads, through toil and hate, to Fame'sserene abode" in a poem that calls for the "most musical of mourners" to "weep again!" That poem by him describesa dead man's soul that "like a star, / beacons from the abode where the Eternal are." He described "The hand thatmock'd" and "the heart that fed" in a poem whose speaker encounters an inscription that reads "Look on my works,ye mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of "AdonÃ¤is" and "Ozymandias"
Percy Bysshe Shelley
7

119713-)
A prologue in this play begins by describing a time when the "wide vessel of the universe" was full of "creepingmurmur and the poring dark." In his only soliloquy, the title character of this play mulls on the word "ceremony",asking "What kind of god art thou [?]". The opening prologue to this play begins with a chorus invoking "a Muse offire, that would ascend the brightest heaven of invention". Falstaff's death is described in this play, whose titlecharacter woos Catherine of Valois, and delivers a speech that begins: "Once more unto the breach, dear friends".Another speech in this play includes the line: "We few, we happy few, we band of brothers". For 10 points, namethis Shakespeare play featuring the St. Crispin's Day speech, in which Prince Hal has become king.
Henry V
7

119723-)
At first, only reapers in the fields overhear the title character of this poem. Near the setting of this poem, "up anddown the people go, / gazing where the lilies blow." Those who travel near this poem's setting include "an abbot onan ambling pad" and a "long-haired page in crimson clad." Upon seeing a body, a character in this poem laments,"she has a lovely face." The title figure of this poem weaves all that she sees at her loom but is nonetheless "halfsickof shadows." When its title character hears a knight sing "tirra lirra" by the river, she looks through the windowof her tower, triggering a curse. For 10 points, name this poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson about a woman whowatches the road to Camelot through a mirror that cracks if she looks away.
 "The Lady of Shalott" 
7

119731-)
In one story by this author, a woman is fatally gored by a stag for removing grapes from an altar to Pan. Inanother story by this author, a woman who enjoys destroying Egbert's farm gets her wish to be reincarnated as anotter. He wrote a story in which a feud between two families in the Carpathians is ended by the falling of a treebranch and some approaching wolves, and one in which boys are given toys of intellectuals as Easter presents,which they turn into action figures anyways. This author of "The Toys of Peace" took his pen-name from thePersian for "cupbearer", and wrote a story in which Vera frightens a man into mistaking returning hunters forghosts. For 10 points, name this British author of The Chronicles of Clovis and "The Open Window."
 Saki [or H. H. Munro]
7

119745-)
One of this author's poems describes an eye "wild as the Gazelle's" that "Wins as it wanders, dazzles where itdwells." This author chastised "Ungrateful Florence" for not appreciating Dante, who "sleeps afar, / Like Scipio,buried by the upbraiding shore." A poem by him describes a rider "With dew on his brow, and the rust on his mail."He attacked a rival in a poem that begins "Bob Southey! You're a poet." He included the poem "To Ianthe" in a longwork that makes reference to his daughter, Ada Lovelace. One of his poems begins: "The Assyrian came down likea wolf on the fold." For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of "The Destruction of Sennacherib" whofeatured his namesake type of hero in Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and Don Juan.
Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron, 6th Baron Byron] 
7

119793-)
A character in this play is roundly mocked for proposing to serve rich dishes like pork in prune sauce on hisdinner menu. When one character in this play bemoans having her bureau broken into, her son mocks her byrepeating the phrase: "I can bear witness to that." One character in this play is offended when another characterrepeatedly interrupts his anecdote about the Duke of Marlborough to ask if he could make them punch to drink. Inthis play, the Three Pigeons alehouse is frequented by Tony Lumpkin, who aids George Hastings in eloping withTony's cousin Constance Neville, and tricks the protagonist into thinking that the Hardcastles' home is a tavern. For10 points, Kate pretends to be a barmaid to overcome Charles Marlow's shyness in what play by Oliver Goldsmith?
She Stoops to Conquer
7

119827-)
A scientist created by this author grafts newt tails to distended animals' shoulder blades. This author wrote, "TNTplus mercury fulminate equals, well, what? An enormous hole in the ground." in another novel. One of his novelsends with a woman who had remained a virgin until thirty-five playing in a bathtub with the editor of The LiteraryWorld. One of this author's protagonists hangs himself in a deserted lighthouse after Darwin Bonaparte photographshim. The fascist Everard Webley is murdered by Maurice Spandrell in a novel in which this author fictionalizedhimself as Philip Quarles. This author of Point Counter Point wrote a novel set in the year 632 After Ford, in whichBernard Marx works at the London hatchery. For 10 points, name this British author of Brave New World.
Aldous (Leonard) Huxley
7

119853-)
In this novel, a busybody old lady listens to a conversation through a door, and mistakenly thinks that twocharacters have gotten engaged, when in fact that man was giving a rectory to the lady's friend. One character in thisnovel abandons a trip to Whitwell at the last minute, to visit a girl thought to be his illegitimate daughter, but who isactually the daughter of his sister-in-law, with whom he was in love. Charlotte Palmer enjoys joking about therudeness of her husband in this novel, in which Eliza Williams is impregnated by the scoundrel John Willoughby.This novel's protagonists marry Edward Ferrars and Colonel Brandon, respectively. For 10 points, name this firstnovel by Jane Austen, in which sisters Elinor and Marianne Dashwood represent the title mental characteristics.
Sense and Sensibility
7

119899-)
As a child, this character spits on a boy who is responsible for the loss of a riding whip which her father was tobring her. This character's locket contains intertwined locks of hair from two different men. This woman meets herfuture husband after being bitten by a bulldog and spending five weeks recuperating at his estate. A sexton is bribedto remove the board separating this woman's coffin from that of her lover's, so that their dust can commingle. Theghost of this character bleeds from being cut by broken glass after breaking through the window of Lockwood'sroom. This woman marries Edgar Linton, much to the chagrin of a boy adopted by her father. For 10 points, namethis woman from the Earnshaw family who loves Heathcliff in Emily Bronte's Wuthering Heights.
Catherine Earnshaw [prompt on Earnshaw]
7

119956-)
A poem by this author describes the joy of discovering "my America, my new found land, my kingdom, safeliestwhen with one man manned." That poem tells its addressee to "unpin that spangled breast-plate" and "unlaceyourself," before telling her to "license my roving hands, and let them go behind before, above, between, below."Another of his poems declares that "dull sublunary lovers' love Â… cannot admit of absence." That poem's speakersays "Thy firmness makes my circle just and makes me end where I begun" as part of a conceit comparing him andhis lover to a pair of compasses. For 10 points, name this Metaphysical poet who wrote "To His Mistress Going toBed" and "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning."
John Donne
7

119979-)
At this woman's house, Prickett Ellis boasts to Miss O'Keefe that the Brunners gave him a clock and instantly complains that he "loves his own kind." In this character's first appearance, her husband kisses Rachel Vinrace during a storm after the couple forces their way aboard the Euphrosyne (you-FRAW-sin-ee) in Lisbon. Early in another novel, this woman reminisces about a man who said "I prefer men to cauliflowers" as she goes to buy flowers, but is interrupted by the (*) backfiring of a car. This woman has a rivalry with her daughter's teacher, Miss Kilman, and dislikes Hugh Whitbread. As a girl, she kissed Sally Seton, and later, she rejects Peter Walsh's proposal and marries Richard. She first appeared in The Voyage Out, and she is the title character of a novel in which she hears of Septimus Smith's suicide as she throws a party. For 10 points, name this Virginia Woolf heroine.
Mrs. Clarissa Dalloway [accept either underlined portion]
7

120018-)
One of this author's speakers declares "Only I discern / Infinite passion, and the pain / Of finite hearts thatyearn". One poem by this author describes a woman waiting for the speaker "In the turret whence the charioteerscaught soul / For the goal". That poem by him ends with the speaker declaring "Shut them in, / With their triumphsand their glories and the rest! / Love is best". A long poem by this author concerns the murder trial of GuidoFranceschini by Pope Innocent XII. This author of "Two in the Campagna" and "Love Among the Ruins" wrote apoem that mentions Claus of Innsbruck's statue of Neptune after discoursing on a painting of the speaker's deceasedwife by Fra Pandolf. For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of The Ring and the Book and "My Last Duchess".
Robert Browning
7

120029-)
In a scene in this play, a man claims that he would rather have his purse stolen than his good name; that man also claims that reputation is "oft got without merit and lost without deserving." The moon is said to make men mad when it comes too near the Earth by a character in this play whose eyes drop tears like the "Arabian trees" drop "med'cinable gum."  A tale from Cinthio's Gli Hecatommithi (glee huh-CAH-to-MITH-ee) serves as the basis for this play, which features a scene in which a character claims that her mother's maid Barbara died while singing her "song of (*) willow." In another scene from this play, Lodovico and Gratiano try to calm Brabantio, who becomes furious upon hearing that "an old black ram" is "tupping [his] white ewe." Its villain conspires with Roderigo to revenge himself against Cassio using a handkerchief belonging to Desdemona. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean play about a "Moor of Venice."
Othello [or The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice]
7

120048-)
An author with this last name created an old man who frightens some children by telling stories about shootingCongolese men, during their school's Harvest Festival. A poet with this last name described a man who "alwaysloved larking", and who declares: "it was too cold always" and "I was much too far out all my life." James Woodcoined the term "hysterical realism" while reviewing the work of an author with this surname. "Not waving butdrowning" was written by a female poet named Stevie, with this last name. In a novel by an author with this lastname, the FutureMouse project draws the ire of the Islamic fundamentalist group KEVIN. For 10 points, ArchieJones and Saleem Iqbal appear in White Teeth, a novel by an author with the first name Zadie and what last name?
Smith [be generous, and accept Stevie Smith or Zadie Smith] 
7

120079-)
One of this author's protagonists feels that Dickens, Tolstoy, Hugo, and Dostoevsky wrote for naught, when shelooks out a window and sees two policemen leading a group of twenty prisoners, handcuffed together. In a novel bythis author, Willi reads from Stalin while Jimmy watches an ant-eater battle with an ant, during a hunt for pigeons toput in Mrs. Boothby's pie, at the Mashopi hotel. Douglas Knowell is disastrously married to Martha Quest in thisauthor's Children of Violence series. The protagonist of her most famous novel keeps four color-coded journals,which she hopes to tie together into the title book; that protagonist is Anna Wulf. For 10 points, this RhodesianBritishauthor, known for writing feminist science fiction and The Golden Notebook.
Doris Lessing
7

120083-)
 This poet observed "Yet happy they whom Grief doth bless, / That weep the more, and see the less" in a poemthat was written as a response to Richard Crashaw's "The Weeper." This author of "Eyes and Tears" addresses a manby noting "But thou, the war's and fortune's son, / March indefatigably on" and likening him to "A Caesar he erelong to Gaul, / To Italy an Hannibal." He told the story of Isabel Thwaites in a poem about Thomas Fairfax'scountry home, Appleton House. In another poem by him, the speaker notes "the grave's a fine and private place / butnone, I think, do there embrace," and describes hearing "Time's wingÃ¨d chariot hurrying near." For 10 points, namethis English metaphysical poet of "An Horatian Ode Upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland" and "To His CoyMistress."
Andrew Marvell
7

120097-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems describes how "mournful lean Despair / Brings me yew to deck mygrave". This author described a bard who has heard "The Holy Word / That walk'd among the ancient trees". Onepoem by this author ends with a character stating that "God and his priest and king" "make up a heaven of ourmisery." He wrote a poem in which an angel with a bright key opens several coffins to lead "Dick, Joe, Ned, andJack" to a green plain. Characters cry "'Weep!' 'Weep!'" in that poem by him, about Tom Dacre, whose hair isstained with soot. The speaker of one of his poems describes an animal "burning bright / In the forests of the night."For 10 points, name this English poet who included "The Chimney Sweeper" and "The Tyger" among his Songs ofInnocence and Experience.
 William Blake
7

120132-)
A inn in this novel only has an external liquor licence, so people have to drink on a ledge outside looking in the window. In a comic scene in this novel, a girl called the "Queen of Spades" spills treacle down her back and rolls around in the grass before attempting to fistfight the main character. After escaping that fight with Car Darch, the protagonist of this novel is taken to a grove in The Chase where she is raped in her sleep, later giving birth to a son named (*) Sorrow as a result. Its protagonist joins Marian and Izz at Flintcomb-Ash after her husband flees to Brazil upon finding out that she is not a virgin. In the last of the seven "phases" of this novel, Alec is stabbed to death by the protagonist, who is arrested at Stonehenge after ensuring that her sister Liza-Lu is looked after by Angel Clare. For 10 points, name this Thomas Hardy novel about a poor girl related to an ancient family. 
Tess of the d'Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Represented  [accept a French pronunciation of "d'Urbervilles" with a silent "s"]
7

120174-)
The second part of this book asks "Who in ventrous vessel measured the Amazon?" after worrying that readers will consider the first part "abundance of an idle brain." It uses the fact that the shifting of the stars ruins the zodiac to prove that the world is getting worse. A character in this book is accompanied by a metal man who never sleeps but refuses to rescue him from the slave-mistress Radigund. The six parts of this book are concerned with the (*) virtues of Holiness, Temperance, Chastity, Friendship, Justice, and Courtesy. One man in this poem goes to the Bower of Bliss to battle Acrasia; that man, Guyon, is later defeated by a woman who marries Artegal. Duessa and Archimago are foiled by the lion-taming Una in this work, which also features the female knight Britomart, the Redcrosse Knight, and Gloriana, who represents Elizabeth I. For 10 points, name this epic poem by Edmund Spenser. 
The Faerie Queene
7

120210-)
In a novel by this author, Charlie Slatter eventually takes over the central farm after sending Tony Marston to manage it. A passage in Eliot's "The Waste Land" that describes events "in this decayed hole among the mountains" titles a novel by this author in which Mary Turner is murdered by her servant Moses. The emissary Johor appears in a series by this author that includes the novels The Sirian Experiments and Shikasta. This author of The (*) Grass is Singing created a character who writes the novel Frontiers of War about her experiences in Rhodesia. In another work by this author, a conventional narrative titled "The Free Woman" is interspersed with segments from Anna Wulf's yellow, red, blue, and black journals. For 10 points, name this author of the Canopus in Argos series and The Golden Notebook.
Doris Lessing [or Doris May Lessing; or Doris May Tayler]
7

120222-)
William White wrote about the memorial inscriptions composed by this man, whose writings in Latin include "Hendecasyllables," (hun-DECK-uh-SILL-uh-bulls) a translation of Dryden's "Britain." This author mocked nursery rhymes with a poem about a "huge and wild" grizzly bear who "has devoured the infant child." This poet laments that "of my threescore years and ten / twenty will not come again" and decides to look at "things in bloom" because "fifty springs are little room" in (*)  "Loveliest of Trees, the Cherry Now". In one of this man's poems, the speaker is given advice like "the heart out of the bosom / was never given in vain" and "give crowns and pounds and guineas / but not your heart away." Another of his poems claims that "early though the laurel grows / It withers quicker than the rose." For 10 points, name this Englishman whose poems "When I Was One-and-Twenty" and "To an Athlete Dying Young" can be found in A Shropshire Lad. 
A.E. Housman [or Alfred Edward Housman]
7

120237-)
In this play, a "haggard, raddled woman" in Biarritz gives an author an idea for the play "The Light Goes Out." After being accused of "waspish female psychology," another of its characters replies "I've heard that said about Julius Caesar." A character in this play who dislikes eating red meat before she works writes a memoir of Princess Pallitani. That woman is mocked by Dr. and Mrs. Bradman because she talks to her "control" Daphne before accidentally bringing in a woman whom she dismisses with the help of the fast-moving, (*) psychic maid Edith. After being summoned by Madame Arcati, the main character's ex-wife intends to kill him in a car crash so they can be together, but accidentally kills his current wife Ruth. Ruth and Elvira both haunt Charles Condomine at the end of, for 10 points, which Noel Coward play, whose title comes from Shelley's "To a Skylark". 
Blithe Spirit
7

120254-)
This author wrote a novel whose protagonist suspects a dubious medical advisor named Rainaldi of conspiring to poison him with laburnum seeds. In that novel by this author, Philip Ashley suspects the title character of complicity in the death of his father Ambrose. In another of this author's novels, a vicar draws himself as a wolf preying on a congregation of sheep; that man, Francis Davey, is revealed to be the leader of a gang of (*) ship-sinking "wreckers" by Mary Yellan. My Cousin Rachel is among the novels this author set in her native Cornwall. Her most famous novel features a woman who causes a commotion at a party by accidentally dressing as her husband's ancestor and is tormented by Mrs. Danvers. For 10 points, name this author of Jamaica Inn who used the line "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again" to open her novel Rebecca. 
Daphne du Maurier
7

120281-)
This author wrote "may the jealous Gods prevent our fierce and uncontrolled descent" in a spoof of Ben Jonson called "To a Lady, Persuading her to a Car." He claimed that "all our pomp of yesterday / is one with Nineveh and Tyre" in a poem whose first four stanzas end with the line "Lest we forget -- Lest we forget." He wrote of how "dawn comes up like thunder outer China / 'crost the Bay" in a poem whose speaker imagines a girl "by the old (*) Moulmein pagoda." This author of "Recessional" wrote about the Colonel's son chasing after the horse-thief Kamal but eventually growing to respect him in a poem that begins "East is East and West is West, and never the twain shall meet." In another poem, the narrator states that an abused water-carrier who took a bullet for him is "a better man than I am." For 10 points, name this British author of "Mandalay", "Gunga Din" and "If".
Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling]
7

120301-)
An uncharacteristic novel by this author features a scene in which a maid is revived by a blood transfusion performed by Charles Meunier and accuses Bertha of trying to poison the protagonist, Latimer. In another of this author's novels, a woman who loves to deny herself pleasures like jewelry and horseback riding instead dedicates her time to designing new cottages for the poor. Strauss's "The Life of Jesus" were among the books translated by this author of The (*) Lifted Veil, who wrote about a girl who considers eloping in Mudport and falls in love with Stephen Guest and Phillip Wakem. Another of her characters was framed for stealing from a congregation, is himself stolen from by Duncan Cass, and adopts Cass's niece Eppie. For 10 points, name this pseudonymous author who wrote about the Tullivers in The Mill on the Floss and penned Silas Marner.
George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans before mention]
7

120320-)
A character in this play character claims to know how to cook "Ormitha Macarounda" despite not even knowing how to prepare bean sprouts. Other discussions in this play involve a toilet that takes too long to flush and is speculated to have a faulty ballcock, a story about an old man who crawls beneath a truck and is run over, and the significance of a picture of cricketers called "The First Eleven." After a character in this play receives an envelope containing a dozen (*) matches, an argument over "common usage" breaks out when one character asks another to "light the kettle." Though it's not Waiting for Godot, this play features a mysterious man, Wilson, who is only discussed and never appears. The appearance of a series of notes bearing orders for food precedes the implied revelation that one character's task will be to kill the other. For 10 points, name this play about hitmen Gus and Ben, by Harold Pinter.
The Dumb Waiter
7

120348-)
In one scene, this character tells his daughter and son that "I know thee not, nor ever saw till now / Sight more detestable than him and thee." In his first scene, he complains that his second-in-command is no longer as beautiful as before, and claims that "the mind is its own place." At one point, his shield is compared to the moon as seen by Galileo, and he himself is compared to a sunspot. He seeks out his victim by pretending that he wants to "with secret gaze / or open admiration him behold," and is later caught squatting at a (*) woman's ear like a toad. At the end of one of this character's speeches, all of his companions and then he himself are turned into snakes. He flees a battle after seeing golden scales in the sky, and is defied by Abdiel and wounded by Michael. This character finds it "better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven". For 10 points, name this fallen angel who tempts Adam and Eve in Milton's Paradise Lost.
Satan [or Lucifer]
7

120355-)
The protagonist of a story by this author imitates the accents of the Rigleys while inquiring with them if another character had been seen in the Prince of Wales pub. After putting John and Annie to bed, the protagonist of that story attempts to track down her late-arriving husband Walter, only to learn of his death in a coal mine collapse. He wrote a story in which Oscar (*) Cresswell ensures that Hester will receive "one thousand pounds at a time" on her birthday for the next five years. In that story by this man, Paul is driven by the house whispering "there must be more money" to win 80,000 pounds by riding a certain toy for hours into the night. For 10 points, name this author of "Odour of Chrysanthemums" and "The Rocking-Horse Winner," who scandalized audiences with Constance's relationship with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors in Lady Chatterley's Lover.
D.H. Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence]
7

120383-)
This piece is preceded by one in which a woman's "entente" leads to the change in ownership of a frying pan. A character in this story relates a story in which a river is reduced in size due to the death of a horse and a story in which Cambyses (cam-BYE-seez) shoots one of his knight's sons to prove that he still had excellent aim while drunk. This story takes place in the district of Holderness, and the solution to a problem in this work involves a cartwheel with a certain number of spokes. In the prologue to this story, a group of (*) clergymen fly out of Satan's ass, fly around the room, and return into his ass. A character in this story points out that a farthing is not worth much when split into twelve, and is later forced to ask the squire how one splits a fart into twelve. The speaker of this story is disfigured with boils, wears a crown of oak leaves, and detests friars. For 10 points, name this story about Thomas, which follows the Friar's Tale.
The Summoner's Tale
7

120405-)
This author wrote about Arthur Rowe,  who accidentally receives a cake at a charity event, in The Ministry of Fear. In one of this man's novels, the EsperanÃ§a carries both a secret letter and a package of diamonds, and Ali is murdered by wharf rats. The love interest of one of his protagonists worked at the Arc-en-Ciel on Jaccareo road. Fred Hale's presence in a certain seaside city leads to Rose's marriage to Pinkie Brown in a novel by this man, who created a character who admires the theories of York Harding and searches for someone to provide a (*) "Third Force." He wrote a novel in which Louise tries to reconcile her husband Major Scobie's suicide with his Catholicism, and another novel in which a man pretends that vacuum cleaner parts are sketches of a secret military installation. For 10 points, name this author of Brighton Rock, The Quiet American, The Heart of the Matter, and Our Man in Havana.
Graham Greene [or Henry Graham Greene]
7

120416-)
In this novel, a girl is criticized for staring at the ceiling while trying to walk like Sybil Thorndike. A character in this novel imagines that "some heedless member of the Unemployed" left the paint for the boat of the Lady of Shalott, whose poem she is called to recite because of her "vowel sounds." This novel begins by describing the differences in how five characters wear panama hats; these characters, including the clumsy (*) Mary Macgregor and the athletic Eunice Gardner, have heard of "Renaissance painters...but not the capital of Finland." The title character of this novel makes food for Mr. Lowther and tries to manipulate Rose Stanley into having an affair with Teddy Lloyd. Later, she is "betrayed" by Sandy Stranger, who reveals her fascist sympathies to her school's faculty. For 10 points, name this Muriel Spark novel about the titular eccentric teacher, who claims to be in the peak of her life.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie
7

120435-)
This man wants to tell the woman he loves "with what a sudden mastery" she kindled him, "heap of ashes that he is," into fire." A woman tells her grandchildren that this man whispered "a life you love" before kissing her face; this man later holds a seamstress's hand while comforting her by telling her to keep looking at him. This man is described as a (*) "jackal" because jackals help lions with the kill but lions get all the glory. This man quotes John 11:25 to himself in Paris, telling himself that "whoever lives and believes in me shall never die." This character undermines the evidence of Roger Barsad by pointing out his physical resemblance to the son of the Marquis St. Evremonde. For 10 points, name this man who loves Lucie Manette and who gives his life to save Charles Darnay at the end of A Tale of Two Cities.
Sydney Carton [either name acceptable]
7

120631-)
One character in this novel uses the pseudonym Provis when visiting the protagonist in London. That character had fought with Compeyson when this novel's protagonist earned Provis's future favor by providing him with a file to cut his chains. Provis's real name is Abel Magwitch, and the fortune he made in Australia allowed him to send the protagonist to London to live with Herbert Pocket and learn to be a gentleman. Meantime, the protagonist's disagreeable companion Brently Drummle married his childhood love, Estella, who was raised by the bitter Miss Havisham. FTP, name this novel about Pip by Charles Dickens.
Great Expectations
6

120649-)
An exhibition of post-Impressionist artists curated by Roger Fry led this artist to remark that "On or about December 1910, human character changed." In a later essay this author hypothesized that if Shakespeare had had a sister named Judith, she wouldn't have had the same opportunities to achieve literary greatness. This author also wrote a 1928 novel in which the title character doesn't age and changes from male to female. Author of "A Room of One's Own" and Orlando, this member of the Bloomsbury Group depicted a day in the life of the title character, Clarissa, who learns at her party that Septimus Smith has committed suicide. FTP who is this female author of Mrs. Dalloway and To the Lighthouse?
Virginia Woolf
6

120676-)
One short work by this author explores how the title blacksmith travels in the Realm of Faery as Starbrow in his off-duty time, while another depicts the title farmer's use of the sword Tailbiter to tame the dragon Chrysophylax. Smith of Wootton Major and Farmer Giles of Ham are lesser known works by this medievalist, whose speech "Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics" proposed reading Beowulf as literature, not history. His best-known works' mythos was established by the creator Iluvatar, as documented in The Silmarillion. FTP, name this author who created Bilbo Baggins in The Hobbit.
J.R.R. Tolkien
6

120705-)
A character in this novel rushes between lab benches in panic after seeing magnesium violently react,mirroring their later behavior as they die in a fire. Another character in this novel fantasizes about Alan BreckStewart. A third character "famous for sex" poses for the one-armed artist (*) Teddy Lloyd. At this novel's end, anun tips off the headmistress Miss Mackay about the title character's fascist sympathies. For 10 points, name this novelabout a teacher from Edinburgh, written by Muriel Spark.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie
9

120729-)
A bullshitter in this novel tells the narrator that all chess pieces move in an L-shape. Another character inthis novel is told his elbow will "unzip" after he visits nurse Crow Face. That character is upset when his shirtis muddied while playing soccer and later helps the narrator find a cassette tape in (*) Norfolk. The narratordiscovers that "deferrals" were mere rumors in a conversation with a former teacher from Hailsham. For 10 points,name this dystopian novel about carer Kathy H and organ donors Ruth and Tommy, written by Kazuo Ishiguro.
Never Let Me Go
9

120748-)
Ogden Nash attacked this poem for overuse of metaphor and simile in his work "Very Like a Whale." Thispoem's second stanza contrasts leaves "when Summer is green" with leaves "when Autumn hath blown" todescribe its central group, whose eyes "waxed deadly and chill" after an Angel of Death "breathed in the faceof the (*) foe as he passed." This poem opens by describing an army "gleaming in purple and gold" coming down "likea wolf on the fold." For 10 points, name this Lord Byron poem about a failed Assyrian conquest.
 "The Destruction of Sennacherib"
9

120764-)
This poem is preceded by a work whose speaker worries if his papers, "yellowed with their age," would "bescorned, like old men of less truth than tongue." This poem laments the decline of "every fair from fair" "bychance or nature's changing course," and notes that though "rough winds" may "shake the darling (*) buds ofMay," this poem will immortalize its subject "so long as men can breathe." For 10 points, name this sonnet whoseopening question is followed by the compliment, "Thou art more lovely and more temperate."
 "Shall I compare thee to a Summer's day?" [accept William Shakespeare's Sonnet 18]
9

120792-)
Rebecca Mead describes identifying with this character at age 17 in a book titled My Life In the novelin which this character appears. After encountering this character dressed in grey and lost in thought infront of the Sleeping Ariadne in the Vatican, Naumann paints a portrait of her as Santa Clara. Thiswoman's interest in improving the cottages of nearby tenant farmers attracts the interest of JamesChettam, who eventually marries her sister Celie. Her desire to help her husband research The (*) Key toAll Mythologies is rebuffed, and despite being disinherited by that husband, she marries Will Ladislaw after his death.For 10 points, name this woman who comes to regret having married Reverend Edward Casaubon in GeorgeEliot's Middlemarch.
Dorothea Brooke
5

120809-)
For killing this figure, Wealhtheow gives a hero three horses, while in John Gardner's retelling of this figure's story, he spares Wealhtheow's life when her husband won't protect her. The Nowell Codex describes this figure as a descendant of Cain. Considered a cannibal giant by the denizens of Heorot, his slayer later ventures into this figure's namesake "mere," a lake, in which he kills this figure's unnamed mother. FTP, name the first antagonist in Beowulf.
Grendel
6

120865-)
One of this author's title characters is informed of the death of her gambling father at the end of thechapter "Mirth and Mourning." That character mercy-kills a brood of birds to prevent a sadistic seven-year oldboy from plucking off their wings. Another novel by this author opens with a letter written to Jack (*) Halfordby Gilbert Markham, who becomes infatuated with Helen Graham, a new resident of the title mansion. For 10 points,name this author of Agnes Grey and The Tenant of Wildfell Hall, the sister of authors Emily and Charlotte.
Anne Bronte [prompt on "Bronte"]
9

120897-)
A work titled for this type of place describes an "old motherÂ… singing her husky song" where "a vastsimilitude interlocks all." A father and his young daughter observe "burial-clouds that lower victorious soon todevour all" in a work set at one of these places that suggests that there is something "more immortal even thanthe (*) stars." "The eternal note of sadness" is heard in another of these locations "where ignorant armies clash by night.""The sea is calm tonight" at - for 10 points - what sort of locale described by a Matthew Arnold poem set in Dover?
beaches [accept: "On the Beach at Night Alone" or "On the Beach at Night" or "Dover Beach"]
9

120909-)
This writer addressed a woman whose "sad indifference" "both kills and doth reprieve" in a poem thatdescribes its subject as "an angel here, the devil there." Another work by this poet praises the "sweetness mercy,majesty and glories" of his (*) King, and mentions that "birds that wanton in the air / Know no such liberty" as thespeaker "When Love with unconfined wings / Hovers within my gates." "Stone walls do not a prison make, nor iron barsa cage" according to - for 10 points - what Cavalier poet's "To Althea, from Prison?"
Richard Lovelace
9

120925-)
One character in this play claims his name is "Joe Soap" before being repeatedly asked, "Do you recognisean external force?" During breakfast, this play's central character complains about spoiled milk in hiscornflakes, and inappropriately describes fried bread as "succulent." After the (*) lights go out during a game ofblind man's bluff, this play's central character trips over a toy drum and attempts to rape Lulu. Goldberg and McCannkidnap Stanley Webber the day after the title celebration in - for 10 points - what Harold Pinter play?
The Birthday Party
9

120946-)
Salmanaazor claimed that in Taiwan, a particularly high-quality version of this good sold for an outlandish400 crowns. This commodity is in season throughout the entire year, but more plentiful in March. The risingpopularity of this commodity would be a "great inducement to (*) marriage," and would greatly lessen the numberof Papists, while additionally reducing the expenses of the poor people of Ireland. For 10 points, what foodstuff isrecommended in Jonathan Swift's essay "A Modest Proposal"?
babies [accept infants or children; accept human flesh or human meat: accept specific body parts, such as "meat" or "skin"; accept other equivalents]
9

120971-)
This author wrote about the foreigner "Yanko Goorall", who dies of heart failure after his pleas for water gounanswered. In another story by this author, an argument over sugar results in the accidental death of Carlier atthe hands of Kayerts. This author of "Amy Foster" and "An Outpost of Progress" also wrote a story set in the(*) Gulf of Siam in which a ship captain shelters the accidental murderer Leggatt. For 10 points, name this author of "TheSecret Sharer," whose longer works include Lord Jim and Heart of Darkness.
 Joseph Conrad [accept Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
9

121004-)
As a child, this novel's protagonist pretends to hide from "Red Indians" in a pillow fort. After returning toschool from a bout of scarlet fever, the protagonist discovers his friend Rose has acquired a new best friend. Atthis novel's end, the protagonist's Uncle William dies at the Blackstable estate. The protagonist attempts topatch up his relationship with the (*) syphilitic Mildred Rogers before eventually marrying Sally Athelny. Dr. Jacobsoperates on Philip Carey's clubfoot in Â– for 10 points Â– what novel by William Somerset Maugham?
Of Human Bondage
9

121029-)
Jeanne Schulkind edited this author's essay "Am I a Snob?" into this author's posthumous autobiography,titled Moments of Being. A character created by this author feels a "perpetual sense" of being "far out to seaand alone" while watching taxi cabs, and reminisces about a garden in Bourton where (*) she kissed Sally Seton.A visit to the Isle of Skye frames this author's novel about Charles Tansley and the Ramsay family. For 10 points, namethis author of Mrs. Dalloway and To The Lighthouse. 
 (Adeline) Virginia Woolf
9

121052-)
On a road named for this place, an animal thought to be a hyena crashes into a moving car. A Christianwoman describes a sound in this place as "devoid of distinction." While one character briefly leaves this placefor a smoke, another character flees this place and is lacerated by thorned plants. (*) Mrs. Moore and her son'sintended bride are led on a disastrous tour of this place by an Indian man. Adela Quested claims Dr. Aziz raped her in -for 10 points - what fictional caves near Chandrapore found in E. M. Forster's novel A Passage to India?
The Marabar Caves
9

121062-)
While the protagonist of this author's first novel is fetching water, a member of a group of smugglers led byCarlyon kills Elizabeth. This author wrote about Francis Andrews in The Man Within, and about Dr. Czinner'strip to Belgrade aboard the Orient Express in (*) Stamboul Train. The protagonist of a different novel by this authoris sheltered by the Lehrs before being betrayed by the Mestizo. For 10 points, name this British author who wrote aboutthe whiskey priest's travels through Mexico in his novel The Power and the Glory. 
Graham Greene
9

121204-)
This author later joked that the title of his first collection of poems, Chamber Music, was meant to evoke "urine tinkling in a chamber pot." He used the Christian term "epiphany" to refer to a character's moment of deep insight as happens to characters like Gabriel Conroy when he recognized his wife's lingering memories of Michael Furey or the unnamed narrator who finds himself unable to buy a gift at the title bazaar for Mangan's sister. Those stories, "The Dead" and "Araby" are collected in a book named for the city of their setting, which also provides the setting for his two novels about Stephen Dedalus. FTP name this Irish author of the collection Dubliners and the novels Ulysses and Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man.
James Joyce
6

121291-)
This poet celebrates a two-day old infant that calls itself Joy, but that baby is mirrored by one which, "bound and wearyÂ…thought best to sulk upon [his] mother's breast," the "Infant Sorrow." One poem by this author contrasts a malleable, cattle-trodden love that "seeketh not itself to please" with the kind of selfish love that "builds a Hell in Heaven's despite." Another work by this poet of "The (*) Clod and the Pebble" begins "And did those feet in ancient time." He described the fearful symmetry" of an animal "burning bright in the forests of the night." For 10 points, name this English poet whose "The Tyger" appears in his Songs of Innocence and Experience.
William Blake 
4

121312-)
This character states that he knows fewer than half a dozen truly accomplished women while ensconced in his best friend's library with Caroline and Mrs. Hurst. Mrs. Younge helps a militia officer seduce his younger sister, though this character foils Georgiana's elopement in time. This man irritates his love interest during a (*) ball at Netherfield by calling her "tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt me," a snobbish gesture that offsets his "ten thousand pounds a year." After his first proposal is refused, he rescues Lydia from Wickham, earning Lizzy's gratitude. For 10 points, identify this master of Pemberley who marries Elizabeth Bennett in Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.
Mr. Darcy [or Fitzwilliam Darcy; prompt on just "Fitzwilliam;" do NOT accept or prompt on "Colonel Fitzwilliam," nor  "Miss Darcy," nor "Georgina Darcy"] 
4

121332-)
This character is mistaken for Mary Ann after she becomes trapped in a house. In another episode, this character is awarded a thimble by a Dodo bird. Famously illustrated by John Tenniel, this character is asked why a raven is like a writing desk. This girl reads a poem about a "creature that came whiffling through the tulgey wood" and is told to "shun the (*) frumious Bandersnatch." After following a "very late!" rabbit, this character encounters a caterpillar smoking on a mushroom and an animal that disappears except for its smile, the Cheshire Cat. For 10 points, identify this girl who goes Through the Looking Glass and adventures in Wonderland in novels by Lewis Carroll.
Alice [or Alice in Wonderland] 
4

121350-)
This character declares that women 'Down from the waist...are centaurs" and "let copulation thrive!" In Act Five, this character tells onlookers "Had I your tongues and eyes, I'd use them so / That heaven's vault should crack." This character is told he'd "make a good fool" after guessing why "the seven stars are no more than seven." He yells things like "Look, look a (*) mouse!" and "Blow, winds, and crack your cheeks!" This title character rips off his clothes in a storm and enters "fantastically dressed with wild flowers" after going insane. For 10 points, name this character who banishes Cordelia and divides his kingdom amongst his daughters Regan and Goneril, in a Shakespeare tragedy.
King Lear 
4

121368-)
This poet states that he must lie down "in the foul rag and bone shop of the heart," in "The Circus Animals' Desertion," and he plans to live alone in the "bee-loud glade" in a small cabin of "clay and wattles." In another poem, this author writes the names of "MacDonagh and MacBride and Connolly and Pearse" before repeating, "a terrible (*) beauty is born." Besides commenting that "the best lack all conviction and the worst are full of passionate intensity," this poet states that "the falcon cannot hear the falconer" and describes a rough beast slouching "towards Bethlehem to be born." For 10 points, identify this Irish poet who wrote "Easter, 1916," "The Second Coming," and "Sailing to Byzantium."
W.B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats] 
4

121379-)
During a film, this character's face morphs out of a soldier submachine-gunning the audience, and one of his speeches is edited by Tillotson to remove any reference to "Withers." Along with the author of The Theory and Practice of Oligarchal Collectivism, this mustached person founded the ruling Party, and his initials are chanted at the end of the Two (*) Minutes Hate. This enemy of Emmanuel Goldstein, whose face is placed on telescreens and posters, becomes the object of brainwashed adoration after the Ministry of Love tortures Winston Smith. For 10 points, identify this omnipresent totalitarian dictator of Oceania who is "watching you" in George Orwell's 1984.
Big Brother 
4

121388-)
Contrary to an ending devised by Herbert Tree, the author's postscript to this play insists that two characters become greengrocers after marrying, though they briefly continue to live in Wimpole Street. The mother of another character in this play shelters a girl who hurls slippers at her son; that girl impresses Clara with her "new small talk," which consists of phrases like "they done her in." In this play, a character howls (*) "ah ah ow ow o" when she mistakes a transcribing man for a Covent Garden policeman, though that friend of Colonel Pickering is actually a professor of phonetics. For 10 points, name this George Bernard Shaw play about Henry Higgins' education of flower girl Eliza Doolittle.
Pygmalion 
4

121408-)
In a novel by this author, the wife of a furze-cutter drowns in Shadwater Weir despite a rescue attempt by a man whose skin is stained red from his work as a reddleman. This author of Under the Greenwood Tree depicted a boy who hangs himself because he and his siblings "are too menny;" that boy, Little (*) Father Time, is the adopted son of Sue Bridehead. The title heroine of one of his Wessex novels is executed at Stonehenge after she kills Alec and is rejected by Angel Clare. For 10 points, name this author of Jude the Obscure and Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy 
4

121425-)
In this play, a man finds a bunch of turnips in his pockets. Two characters in this play give each other the nicknames "Gogo" and "Didi." This play begins as a character fails to remove his boot and says, "Nothing to be done." Before becoming mute between acts of this play, one character dances "The Net" and puts on a hat that forces him to (*) "think." While hanging out beneath a tree, from which they consider hanging themselves, two bowler-hat-wearing characters meet Pozzo, who keeps Lucky on a rope leash. For 10 points, name this play about Vladimir and Estragon, a pair who never see the title character of this work by Samuel Beckett.
Waiting for Godot [or En attendant Godot] 
4

121428-)
This character sometimes meets his indolent brother at the Diogenes Club, and he fails to rescue Paul Kratides, a man with plaster covering his face. This character, who once spent a morning stabbing a harpoon into a dead pig, notices that a portrait of a cavalier resembles the former schoolmaster Vandeleur. This man used the "curious case of the dog in the night time," to determine the whereabouts of a racehorse. He is menaced by the airgun-wielding Sebastian (*) Moran, and he apparently dies at Reichenbach Falls with Professor Moriarty. For 10 points, identify this detective whose miraculous deductions are recorded by Dr. Watson, a creation of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Sherlock Holmes [accept either underlined part] 
4

121448-)
One character in this novel is vociferously booed at the White Hart for his speech about parliamentary reform. Another character in this novel refuses to tear up Mr. Featherstone's will, forcing her sweetheart to take a loan from her father, Caleb Garth. The protagonist of this novel marries a man who believes that Christianity is The Key to All (*) Mythologies. In this novel, Rosamund Vincy ruins doctor Tertius Lydgate with her extravagance. The protagonist of this novel rejects the tenets of Casaubon's will to marry Will Ladislaw. For 10 points, name this novel about Dorothea Brooke by George Eliot.
Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life 
4

121488-)
One of this man's plays opens with a dialogue between a page who is mystified by a moon that looks "like a woman rising from a tomb" and a young Syrian whose admiration of the beautiful princess ends poorly for him. In another one of this man's plays, the Reverend Chasuble falls in love with Miss Prism, the governess of young Cecily. In that play of his, Miss Prism reveals that she had misplaced a baby in a (*) handbag twenty-eight years earlier. In that play by this author of Lady Windermere's Fan, the baby turns out to be the "bunburying"-lover Jack, who is a good friend of Cecily's suitor Algernon. For 10 points, name this witty playwright who wrote The Importance of Being Earnest.
Oscar [Fingal O'Flahertie Wills] Wilde 
4

121508-)
This character observes that a man "resembled my father as he slept," and asks "good peers" to think of another character's reaction to an empty "stool" as "but as a thing of custom" that "spoils the pleasure of the time." After fearing that one character's nature is "too full o' the milk of human kindness," this character advises, "Screw your (*) courage to the sticking place." She tells the spirits, "Unsex me here," and claims that she would be willing to dash out a baby's brains, but she later sleepwalks, howling, "Out, out, damned spot" as she tries to wash the blood off her hands. For 10 points, identify woman who plots King Duncan's murder in a Shakespeare play titled for her Scottish husband.
Lady Macbeth [accept Macbeth's wife; do NOT accept or prompt on just "Macbeth"] 
4

121553-)
About this author's translation of the Iliad, the classical scholar Richard Bentley said, "It is a pretty poem, but you must not call it Homer." This collaborator on the play Three Hours after Marriage with John Gay also wrote a work, whose addendum extols the virtues of the Peace of Utrecht, a long poem called Windsor Forest, and the line "Who breaks a butterfly upon a wheel" can be found in his "Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot." John Dennis attacked one of his works which refers to Homer, Virgil, and Horace, but this author may be better known for a work which makes Lewis Theobald the prince of dullness, as well as another about an incident that occurred between Lord Petre and Arabella Fermor. FTP, name this English author of "An Essay on Criticism", The Dunciad, and "The Rape of the Lock". 
Alexander Pope
7

121662-)
In the fourth section of this poem, the speaker observes that "flowers have been known to heal a commonman's despair." In this poem, the Chaplain refuses to pray beside the corpse of a man who "did not wear hisscarlet coat, for blood and wine are red." This poem chiasmatically describes a man for whom "mourners willbe outcast men, and outcasts always mourn," a passage chosen as the epitaph of the author, who wrote itunder the pseudonym C.3.3. This poem declares that "some do it with a bitter look, some with a flatteringword," to elaborate upon his assertion that "each man kills the thing he loves." For 10 points, name this poemin which Oscar Wilde describes his imprisonment for homosexuality in the title place.
 "The Ballad of Reading Gaol" 
7

121746-)
This poet described floating in the ocean, seeing a butterfly overhead, andreminiscing about his dead wife in the poem "Amphibian." The narrator of anotherpoem by this man claims "man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's a heavenfor?" That narrator dreams of working on one of the "four great walls in the NewJerusalem" alongside Rafael and Leonardo while painting his wife Lucrezia. Otherartworks in this man's poetry include a bronze statue of (*) Neptune taming a seahorse cast by Claus of Innsbruck and placed near a painting of a woman who "liked whate'er she looked on." The narrator of a dramatic monologue by this poet killed his wife because she had "a heart too soon made glad." For 10 points, name this poet of "Andrea del Sarto" and "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning
None

121762-)
This town's inhabitants include a woman who insists on wearing the same clothes as her sister, becauseotherwise they will look "as if [they] were no kin to one another." Mr. Snell and Mr. Macey are among thecommon visitors to this town's tavern, the Rainbow. A man from this town offers lard cakes to his future sonin-law,Aaron Winthrop. This town's best-known denizen moved here from Lantern Yard. This town's RedHouse is home to a man who marries Nancy Lammeter, Godfrey Cass. In a pivotal scene, a character who livesin this town reaches out for what he thinks is his stolen gold, only to grab the hair of the infant Eppie. For 10points, name this town created by George Eliot which is home to the weaver Silas Marner.
Raveloe
7

121786-)
This author wrote about the Great Groby Tree, which symbolizes a family's curse, in a novel about thegodson of General Campion. In an oft-quoted comment, this novelist's friend John Rodker called one of hisnovels "the finest French novel in the English language." A woman created by this writer is averse to sex due toa strict Catholic upbringing, leading her to suggest the sexual union of her ward Nancy and her husband. Thiswriter created a man called "the last English Tory," who is constantly cheated on by his wife Sylvia, namedChristopher Tietjens. The narrator says, "This is the saddest story I have ever heard," at the beginning of hisnovel about Edward Ashburnham. For 10 points, name this English author of Parade's End and The Good Soldier. 
Ford Madox Ford 
7

121794-)
While a man performs this action, the protagonist comes "so near laughing" to that man's "solemncomposure" that she cannot use a short pause in his speech to interrupt this act. In that action of this type, thespeaker says that he is setting an example as a clergyman and following the advice of a woman fromHunsford. Another man begins this action by saying, "In vain I have struggled...my feelings will not berepressed," and does it a chapter before he delivers a letter concerning George Wickham's attempt to elopewith his sister. Because he is thought to have ruined Jane's chances with Mr. Bingley, Mr. Darcy is rejected inhis first attempt to do this. For 10 points, name this action in which marriage is offered to the protagonist ofPride and Prejudice. 
proposing to Elizabeth Bennet [or obvious equivalents; prompt on partial answers like proposing] 
7

122167-)
In one novel by this author, George Ponderevo helps his uncle sell the title fake drug, TonoBungay. He wrote about Prendrick and human-animal hybrids in The Island of Doctor Moreau. Inone novel, the protagonist loses an Eloi named Weena in a fire he sets to escape the (*) Morlocks,and in another, Martians invade Earth but are killed by common disease. For 10 points, name this authorof The Time Machine and The War of the Worlds.
H(erbert) G(eorge) Wells
2

122188-)
A character in this work refuses a marriage proposal from St. John [sin-jin], and doubts Alice Fairfax, who blames strange sounds on Grace Poole. Mr. Bocklehurst causes the death of (*) Helen Burns, whom the protagonist meets at Lowood School in this novel. Bertha Mason was the first wife ofEdward Rochester, who eventually marries the protagonist of, for 10 points, this novel by Charlotte Bronte.
Jane Eyre
2

122212-)
Characters in this novel go to the Malpais reservation in New Mexico, where they meet Linda,whose son remembers her relationship with PopÃ© while watching Three Weeks in a Helicopter. Thisnovel opens by describing the Bokanovsky process, and in this work, (*) Helmholtz Watson is exiledto the Falkland Islands by Mustapha Mond. John the Savage and Bernard Marx oppose the drug Soma in,for 10 points, what dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley?
Brave New World
2

122226-)
One character in this work jokingly dates her love to the day she saw Pemberley estate, and Charlotte Lucas marries Mr. Collins after her friend rejects him. This novel begins when Netherfield is rented by a "single man in (*) possession of a good fortune," and in it, Lydia marries Mr. Wickham and Jane weds Mr. Bingley. Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy overcome poor first impressions in, for 10 points, what novel by Jane Austen?
Pride and Prejudice
2

122244-)
Balthasar delivers a sad message in this work, and Benvolio tries to broker peace between twofactions. Before being killed by the "Prince of Cats," one character in this play describes QueenMab, and (*) Tybalt's death causes his killer's exile from Verona. Friar Lawrence marries the titlecharacters, whose joint suicide reconciles the Montague and Capulet families. For 10 points, identify thisShakespearean tragedy about "a pair of star-cross'd lovers."
Romeo and Juliet
2

122258-)
This author wrote "The Disintegration Machine" and The Lost World, which feature therambunctious Professor Challenger. He created "the most indispensable man in the country," and"The Woman," who marries Godfrey Norton. Another of his characters seems to fall to his deathoff (*) Reichenbach Falls with Professor Moriarty; that character lives at 221b Baker Street with JohnWatson. For 10 points, name the author of A Study in Scarlet and The Hound of the Baskervilles, whocreated Sherlock Holmes.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
2

122267-)
A character in this work covers a boar's head with her green shawl so her youngest daughtercan sleep. Another character is admired by Charles Tansley. Only Augustus Carmichael is allowedto see Lily Briscoe's paintings in this work. Prue and Andrew die in this novel's second section (*)"Time Passes." After ten years, Cam, James, and Mr. Ramsay finally take the title voyage in, for 10points, what novel by Virginia Woolf?
To the Lighthouse
2

122289-)
This author wrote about Dr. Edwin Ransom's encounters with life on Mars and Venus in Out ofthe Silent Planet and Perelandra. This author of The Screwtape Letters wrote about Digory andPolly, who pave the way for the (*) Pevensie children, and about Prince Caspian and the lion Aslan. For10 points, identify this author of The Chronicles of Narnia, including The Lion, the Witch, and theWardrobe.
C(live) S(taples) Lewis (prompt on "Lewis" alone)
2

122323-)
When one of these literary devices is ruined, the Manager cries "I've lost a whole day over thesepeople!" The Rude Mechanicals create one of these called Pyramus and Thisbe for Theseus andHippolyta's wedding in A (*) Midsummer Night's Dream. Another of these, "The Murder of Gonzago,"is "the thing" that exposes the murderer of King Hamlet. For 10 points, name this theatrical device inwhich a work is performed as part of the action of another drama.
play within a play (accept any description of characters in a play putting on a play; prompt on play; prompt on frame story)
2

122331-)
In one work by this author, Herbert Pocket teaches the protagonist to be a gentleman, while inanother work, Salem House-educated James Steerforth runs off with Little Em'ly. After DoraSpenlow dies in one of his novels, her widower marries (*) Agnes Wickfield, and this author wroteabout Estella and the jilted Miss Havisham. The creator of Uriah Heep and Pip is, for 10 points, whatauthor of David Copperfield and Great Expectations?
Charles John Huffam Dickens
2

122351-)
In this work, Nicholas convinces John to sleep in a tub so he can sleep with Alisoun. A characterin this work describes Arcite and Palamon's fight for Emily, and a gap-toothed woman tells of aquest to find what women most desire, and another. The (*) Miller, the Wife of Bath, the Knight, andother pilgrims meet at Tabard Inn in, for 10 points, what collection of short stories written by GeoffreyChaucer?
The Canterbury Tales
2

122370-)
In one work by this author, Mr. Guest recognizes two characters' similar handwriting andDanvers Carew is murdered. In another work, Squire Trelawney hires Captain Smollett to lead acrew that includes young (*) Jim Hawkins and the pirate Long John Silver in a journey to the titlelocation. For 10 points, identify this author of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and Treasure Island.
Robert Louis (Balfour) Stevenson
2

122379-)
The driest thing one character in this work knows is a lecture on William the Conqueror, and apoem in this novel asks how Father William can stand on his head and balance an eel on his nose.White rose bushes are (*) painted red to appease the decapitation-thirsty Queen of Hearts in this work. Itfeatures the Mad Hatter and the Cheshire Cat, who guide the title character after she falls down a rabbithole. For 10 points, identify this novel by Lewis Carroll.
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland
2

122423-)
Rebecca Mead describes identifying with this character at age 17 in a book titled My Life In the novelin which this character appears. After encountering this character dressed in grey and lost in thought infront of the Sleeping Ariadne in the Vatican, Naumann paints a portrait of her as Santa Clara. Thiswoman's interest in improving the cottages of nearby tenant farmers attracts the interest of JamesChettam, who eventually marries her sister Celie. Her desire to help her husband research The (*) Key toAll Mythologies is rebuffed, and despite being disinherited by that husband, she marries Will Ladislaw after his death.For 10 points, name this woman who comes to regret having married Reverend Edward Casaubon in GeorgeEliot's Middlemarch.
Dorothea Brooke [accept either underlined portion] 
5

122455-)
This poet described himself being carried "from out our bourne of Time and Place" in a poem thatdescribes waters "Too full for sound and foam." In that poem, this author noted that after "Twilight andevening bell" comes "the dark," and hoped that "there be no sadness of farewell" after his death. Thispoet penned the lines "Sunset and evening star, and one clear call for me!" in a poem that describesseeing "my (*) Pilot face to face" at his death. "All the world wondered" at the subjects of a poem by this manthat begins "Half a league, half a league, half a league onward" and describes six hundred soldiers riding "into thevalley of Death." For 10 points, name this British poet of "Crossing the Bar" and "The Charge of the LightBrigade."
Alfred, Lord Tennyson [or Alfred Tennyson]
5

122459-)
In the penultimate chapter of this novel, the author remarks that camaraderie is "seldom superadded to love between the sexes," but when it is present, it produces love that "many waters cannot quench."The protagonist of this novel wipes away a message on a coffin indicating that both a woman and a child are within it. In this novel, a character helps put out a barn fire, after which he is advised to work at Weatherbury Farm. A soldier in this novel conceives a child with the poor girl (*) Fanny Robin and is thought to be dead at sea until he appears at a party where he is shot by Boldwood. Its protagonist gives up his farm after his sheep dog chases his sheep off a cliff. For 10 points, name this Thomas Hardy novel in which Bathsheba Everdene marries Gabriel Oak.
Far From the Madding Crowd
5

122492-)
This author wrote a short story in which Mr. Swaffer gives a house to the title character and her husband Yanko Goorall, the latter of whom calls out for water in his native tongue and is abandoned before his death. In another of his stories, a captain decides to help the deserter Leggatt escape from the HMS Sephora. Another character created by this author describes his trip to a "whited sepulchre" to accept a job from the (*) Company to replace Fresleven. This author wrote a book about a journey made to the Central Station that is part of a framed narrative told on board the Nellie. For 10 points, name this Polish-born British author of the short stories "Amy Foster" and "The Secret Sharer" who wrote about Marlow's search for Kurtz in Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad [or Josef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
5

122505-)
The protagonist of a novel by this author receives a letter containing a $5000 bill, which he refers to as a"portrait of Madison". An affair with Linda Loring and threats from Mendy Menendez complicate the plotof a novel by this author in which the protagonist attempts to keep Roger Wade sober and eventuallylearns that Paul Marston and Terry Lennox are the same person. The blackmail efforts of Arthur Geigerprompt General Sternwood to hire the protagonist, who learns that Eddie (*) Mars helped Vivian Sternwoodconceal her sister Carmen's murder of Rusty Regan, in a novel by this author titled for a euphemism for death. For10 points, name this author of hardboiled novels like The Long Goodbye and The Big Sleep, which both star hisdetective Philip Marlowe.
Raymond Chandler [or Raymond Thornton Chandler]
5

122518-)
This man wrote, "Shakespeare was of us, Milton was for us," in a poem that laments, "just for a handful of silver he leftus, just for a riband to stick in his coat," in reference to William Wordsworth. In another poem by this author, a "girl witheager eyes and yellow hair" waits for the speaker in a "single little turret that remains on the plains." This poet of "TheLost Leader" also wrote a poem in which the speaker offers to show his interlocutor a bronze statue of Neptune cast byClaus of Innsbruck. That poem of his describes a woman who had "a heart...too soon made glad" memorialized in a portraitby Fra Pandolf. For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of "Love among the Ruins" and "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning 
7

122537-)
In a parenthetical remark in this essay, the author insists, "Never tell me, by the way, that the dead lookpeaceful." This essay opens with the author reminiscing about the only time he was important enough to behated by everyone. This essay's author admits that he is "only an absurd puppet," though he seems like "theleading actor," claiming that "when the white man turns tyrant, it is his own freedom that he destroys." Thetitle event of this essay occurs after the "mahout" goes the wrong way to search for a creature that has "gonemust." This essay's author performs that action in front of a crowd of villagers while serving as a British officerin Burma. For 10 points, name this George Orwell essay that describes the killing of a tusked animal. 
 "Shooting an Elephant"
7

122538-)
A poem by this author includes questions like "Will there be beds for me and all who seek?" and "Does theroad wind uphill all the way?" In a poem by this author, the speaker's heart is compared to a "singing bird," an"apple tree," and a "rainbow shell" because "my love has come to me." A poem by this author notes, "One maylead a horse to water, twenty cannot make him drink," before describing a character being kicked and pinched.This author wrote, "Better by far you should forget and smile," in the poem "Remember." This poet includedthe moral "there's no friend like a sister" in a poem in which Lizzie begins to waste away after buying fruitfrom merchants crying "come buy, come buy." For 10 points, name this poet of "Goblin Market." 
Christina Rossetti [or Christina Georgina Rossetti; prompt on Rossetti] 
7

122562-)
An author who returned to this country, his ancestral homeland, in 1935 made his name with the novel Wolf Solent. An author from this country wrote about people who "though they sink through the sea they shall rise again" in a poem that describes a time when "though lovers be lost love shall not". A characte rfrom this adopted home of John Cowper Powys (COO-per POW-iss) holds Edmund Mortimer captive and proposes lending his (*) magic to Hotspur's rebellion in Henry IV, Part 1. A poet from this country wrote "And death shall have no dominion" and a poem that urges the addressee to "Rage, rage against the dying of the light".For 10 points, name this country, the birthplace of Owen Glendower and the author of "Do not go gentle into that good night", Dylan Thomas.
Wales [or Cymru; prompt on Great Britain or the United Kingdom or the U.K.; do not accept or prompt on "England"]
5

122567-)
In the first scene of this play, a woman inquires of a messenger, "how many hath he killed? for indeed Ipromised to eat all of his killing." A man in this play regrets that his friend would now rather hear "the tabourand the pipe" than "the drum and the fife." In a climactic confrontation in this play, a man exclaims, "Is this theprince? Is this the prince's brother?...Are our eyes our own?" Women are told to convert all their "sounds of woeinto hey nonny nonny" in a song in this play urging them to "sigh no more." In this play, Borachio andMargaret become part of a scheme by Don John that leads to the faked death of Hero, who is in love withClaudio. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play featuring a "merry war" between Beatrice and Benedick. 
Much Ado About Nothing
7

122594-)
 A woman in this work has her pearls stolen by her husband before he elopes to South America with aSpanish dancer. In this work, Val fights in the Boer War after being dared to enlist by Jolly. The title characterof its first book chooses to save the baby Fleur's life over the life of the baby's mother, Annette Lamotte, but islater upset when Fleur falls for his ex-wife's son Jon. The young architect Philip Bosinney travels to Robin Hillto design a house for the title family of this series, whose members include Old Jolyon, Young Jolyon, andSoames. For 10 points, name this series of novels consisting of The Man of Property, In Chancery, and To Let,written by John Galsworthy. 
The Forsyte Saga 
7

122611-)
One of these poems calls the clouds of Albion "begetters of our deep eternal theme" and asks, "Give me newPhoenix wings to fly at my desire." Another of these poems imagines tracing the shadows of a high romanceand ends with the speaker describing standing alone and thinking "till love and fame to nothingness do sink."These poems include "On Seeing the Elgin Marbles." The image of Cortez's men "silent, upon a peak in Darien"ends one of these poems that begins, "Much have I travell'd in the realms of gold." These poems include onebeginning, "Bright star! would I were steadfast as thou art," and "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer."For 10 points, name these 14-line poems by the author of "Ode on a Grecian Urn." 
 John Keats's sonnets [or obvious equivalents; prompt on John Keats's poems; prompt on sonnets] 
7

122617-)
A man in this novel begins to tell a story about the King of Bohemia's seven castles, but ends up describinghis sexual encounter with a nun who vigorously caresses his knee. A clergyman in this book supports thetraining of a midwife in his town so that people will stop using his horse to get to the doctor. In the firstvolume of this novel, the narrator explains "hobby-horses." In this novel, a character builds replicas of theSiege of Namur after moving to the country on the advice of Corporal Trim. A falling window sash causes theaccidental circumcision of this novel's title character, whose Uncle Toby is the focus of much of its second half.For 10 points, name this long, digressive novel by Laurence Sterne. 
Tristram Shandy [or The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman] 
7

122635-)
In a play by this author, a woman has to act out the word "winsomely" during a game of adverbs and later launches into a scene beginning, "Is this a game?" from her play Love's Whirlwind. A character in a play by this author insists that the song Always be played for a seven-year-old with a cold named Daphne. This author wrote about the cocaine-addicted composer Nicky Lancaster in The Vortex. A play by this author features the Bliss family, who each invite a different guest to spend the weekend in their country house. In one of his plays, Ruth is killed by a car booby-trapped by Elvira, whose ghost was summoned during a seance conducted by Madame Arcati for Charles Condomine. For 10 points, name this British playwright of Hay Fever and Blithe Spirit.
Noel Coward [or Noel Peirce Coward]
7

122648-)
A man with this profession is addressed in the extra canto that concludes Wallace Stevens's Notes Toward aSupreme Fiction. William Wordsworth characterized an ideal member of this profession as one who "hathwrought upon the plan that pleased his boyish thought." A sonnet titled for a member of this professionidentifies the speaker's heartbeat as "a pulse in the eternal mind" giving back "sights and sounds" and"laughter, learnt of friends" to their source. Another poem about people with this occupation calls "each slowdusk a drawing-down of blinds" after comparing them to cattle, asking "what passing-bells" will send them ontheir way. For 10 points, name this profession whose members were memorialized by Rupert Brooke andWilfred Owen. 
soldiers [or warriors]
7

122669-)
The first verse line of The Winter's Tale describes "nine changes" of a metaphorical "watery" one of theseobjects. Lear's Fool quips that the reason why seven of these things "are no more than seven is a pretty reason."In the graveyard scene, Hamlet claims that Laertes's "phrase of grief" makes these things "stand like wonderwoundedhearers." In Sonnet 116, love is said to be one of these objects for "every wandering bark." Hamletsends a quatrain to Ophelia that begins by telling her to doubt that these objects are fire and to doubt that thenearest of them moves. For 10 points, name these bodies of which Cassius says, "The fault, dear Brutus, is notin" them, "but in ourselves." 
stars
7

122675-)
In a play by this author, a man remembers tossing another character's child in the air at a party, but doesn't rememberthat it happened in his kitchen. The unseen author Casey is frequently mentioned by that play's male leads, who run apublishing company and play squash. A play by this author opens with a character reading news stories about an oldman being run over by a bus and an eight-year-old killing a cat. One of his plays details Jerry and Emma's affair inreverse chronological order. This author wrote a play in which an argument over the phrase "light the kettle" takes placein a basement equipped with a speaking tube where the hit men Gus and Ben wait for their assignment. For 10 points,name this playwright of Betrayal and The Dumb Waiter. 
Harold Pinter
7

122676-)
A 1983 manifesto by Jerome McGann argued that scholars of this movement uncritically accept theassumptions of the writers they study in a diagnosis of its "ideology." M. H. Abrams argued that thismovement triggered a shift between critical views of artists as the two title objects in The Mirror and the Lamp.Representatives of this movement are the subjects of The Ringers in the Tower by Harold Bloom, who revitalizedstudies of it in his early phase with a string of books including The Visionary Company. A member of thismovement distinguished between "imagination" and "fancy" in his Biographia Literaria. For 10 points, namethis movement whose English exemplars included the primary author of Lyrical Ballads, William Wordsworth. 
Romanticism 
7

122687-)
In a novel by this author, a woman "pleads her belly" to avoid going to prison until the birth of her daughter,whose first memory is traveling with a band of gypsies. Another character created by this man is surprisedwhen the wooden stakes he uses to keep up his bower end up sprouting. That character created by this writerbuilds a canoe out of a cedar tree but cannot bring it to sea. At the end of a novel by this author, the titlecharacter goes to a plantation with Jemy and sees her son Humphrey, who was conceived with her halfbrother.Another of his title characters becomes enslaved in Sallee before owning a plantation in Brazil andbefriending a cannibal he names Friday. For 10 points, name this author of Moll Flanders and Robinson Crusoe. 
Daniel Defoe [or Daniel Foe]
7

122734-)
One of this author's poems describes a "blameless" character who is "decent not to fail in offices of tenderness" and "centered in the sphere of common duties." The speaker of that poem by this author is "part of all that I have met," has "become a name," and will "drink life to the lees"; that speaker promises "to (*) strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield," and leaves his "sceptre and isle" to his son Telemachus. In another of this author's poems, there was no choice "but to do or die" for the "six hundred" who rode "into the valley of Death." For 10 points, name this nineteenth-century English poet, who wrote "Ulysses" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade."
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
4

122751-)
The speaker of this poem describes humanity as "children afraid of the night who have never beenhappy or good" and asks, "Who can live for long in a euphoric dream?" after mentioning "blindskyscrapers". This poem makes reference to "exiled Thucydides", who "knew all that a speech can sayabout democracy", and it declares a quotation about Diaghilev by Nijinsky to be universal. Its speakerposits that "the windiest militant trash" is not as crude as the normal human wish: "not universal love,but to be loved alone". It begins as the speaker sits in one of "the dives on Fifty-Second street", andfamously proclaims, "We must love one another or die". For 10 points, name this W. H. Auden poem,titled for the day on which World War II began.
"September 1, 1939"
7

122770-)
The speaker of a poem by this author imagines "looking out to see the moon thinned to an airsharpedblade" and muses that "all solitude is selfish" after receiving a dinner invitation from a mannamed Warlock-Williams. In another of this author's poems, the speaker describes seeing "girls inparodies of fashion, heels and veils" while he is riding a "three-quarters-empty train". This poet wroteabout "the deep blue air, that shows nothing, and is nowhere, and is endless", and another of his poemsadvises the reader to "get out as early as you can and don't have any kids yourself". For 10 points, namethis 20th-century British poet of "Vers de SociÃ©tÃ©" (VAIR duh so-see-ay-TAY), "The Whitsun Weddings","High Windows", and "This Be The Verse".
Philip Larkin
7

122786-)
Daisy's recitation of this poem moves the criminal Baxter to tears in the climactic scene of Ian McEwan's Saturday. A character yells "Go home and think of your first husband divorced and your second husband killed in a jet and your third husband blowing his brains out" after reading this poem, which causes his wife to lock herself in the bathroom and take sleeping pills, and causes Mrs. Phelps to cry. The title character of a poem based on this one "had read (*) Sophocles in a fairly good translation and caught that bitter allusion to the sea." A pejorative is substituted for the last word in this poem's title in a parody by Anthony Hecht. This poem's speaker says "Ah, love, let us be true to one another!" and compares the world to "a darkling plain Â… where ignorant armies clash by night." For 10 points, name this Matthew Arnold poem.
"Dover Beach" 
7

122790-)
A 1997 book-length study of these poems observes how their last lines recycle earlier words, creating "couplet ties." In one of these poems, the speaker asks that the "keen teeth" be "plucked from the lion's jaws" by "devouring time." The speaker of another of these poems describes a "man right fair" and a "woman colour'd ill" as "two spirits" that represent his "comfort and despair." Helen Vendler wrote a book about the "art" of these poems, one of which concludes that "love is not (*) love / Which alters when it alteration finds." One of them observes that "rough winds do shake the darling buds of May," and ends with the couplet "So long as men can breathe and eyes can see, so long lives this, and this gives life to thee." For 10 points, name these 14-line poems, such as one that starts "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?"
William Shakespeare's sonnets 
7

122800-)
This poem says rather sexistly that "like untuned golden strings all women are, which long time lie untouched, will harshly jar." A celebrated portion of this poem observes that "It lies not in our power to love or hate," and asks "Who ever loved, that loved not at first sight?" It ends by describing a woman who "danged down to hell her loathsome carriage." This poem is divided into two sestiads, a type of canto named for the city that it is partly set in. (*) Neptune mistakes one of the title characters of this poem for Ganymede and drags him to the bottom of the ocean. This poem, which was completed by George Chapman, ends after the naked second title character, a youth from Abydos, knocks on the tower of the first, a priestess of Venus, after emerging from the Hellespont. For 10 points, name this Christopher Marlowe poem that retells a Greek myth about a pair of lovers.
Hero and Leander 
7

122826-)
After the protagonist shakes this character's hand, he rubs his hands together to warm them and, as the novel tells us in all caps, "TO RUB HIS OFF." This character, who may be modeled after Hans Christian Andersen, moves around in a writhing manner, has lashless red eyes, and his name is often invoked to describe someone sycophantic. In a morally ambiguous scene, the protagonist strikes this character on the face for suggesting that Dr. Strong's wife may be cheating on him. This character is eventually (*) convicted of defrauding the Bank of England and sentenced to prison in Australia not long after being confronted by Miss Betsey, Tommy Traddles, and Mr. Micawber. While working as a clerk to Mr. Wickfield, this character schemes to marry Wickfield's daughter Agnes. For 10 points, name this villain from the second half of David Copperfield. 
Uriah Heep [accept either underlined name] 
7

122840-)
One of this author's characters observes that "One half of the world cannot understand the pleasures of the other." A woman tries to sneak away from a man making her translate a concert program from Italian in one of this author's novels, in which the amusingly-named Charles Hayter gets engaged to his cousin. This author wrote that "I do not want people to be very agreeable, as it saves me the trouble of liking them a great deal" in a letter to her (*) sister Cassandra. At the start of a novel by this author, dire economic circumstances force a family to rent Kellynch Hall to the Crofts, bringing Captain Wentworth back into the life of Anne Elliott. Robert Martin gets initially rejected by Harriet Smith on the advice of the title character of another novel by this author, who ends up with her much older neighbor George Knightley. For 10 points, name this author of Persuasion and Emma.
Jane Austen
7

122853-)
The speaker of a poem by this author realizes that "love deceives, and wrings with wrong" whenever he remembers "Your face, and the God curst sun." In one of his poems, this author concluded that war is "quaint and curious" because "You shoot a fellow down / You'd treat if met where any bar is." This author wrote a poem about a creature "frail, gaunt, and small," that chooses to "fling his soul / Upon the growing gloom." This author of  "The Man He Killed" wrote a poem about the (*) jarring of "two hemispheres" that results from a "sea-worm" meeting "a Shape of Ice." This author wrote a poem about a man who "leant upon a coppice gate" at the dawn of the twentieth century when he encountered the title bird. For 10 points, name this English poet who wrote some "lines on the loss of the Titanic" in "The Convergence of the Twain" and penned "The Darkling Thrush."
Thomas Hardy 
7

122880-)
Adrienne Rich identified a passage in this novel beginning "It is in vain to say human beings ought to be satisfied with tranquility" as its author's feminist manifesto. This novel's protagonist paints a watercolor depicting a shipwreck featuring a cormorant carrying a gold bracelet in its beak. A devoutly Christian woman in this novel is buried in a grave marked only by a tablet with the inscription "Resurgam." Early in this novel, the protagonist sees an (*) apparition in the "red-room," where her uncle had died. The protagonist of this novel agrees to go to India on a missionary trip with, but not to marry, her cousin St. John Rivers. The male lead of this novel loses his eyesight trying to rescue his suicidal first wife Bertha Mason, who burns down Thornfield Hall. For 10 points, name this novel whose title character falls in love with Edward Rochester, written by Charlotte BrontÃ«. 
Jane Eyre 
7

122899-)
The title character of a novel by this author gets lost in Canada when his guide, Chew, dies of a fever, and appears to die in a duel when he impales himself on his opponent's sword. The two main characters of that novel by him are buried under the same stone in the American wilderness when the Indian servant Secundra Dass fails to revive one of them. One of his best known characters is based on his friend William Ernest Henley, and employs his African-born wife as a sort of accountant. The horses of revenue officers trample the evil blind man (*) Pew in a novel by this author in which a page from Dick Johnson's Bible is torn out to make a Black Spot condemning the main villain. This author's most enduring characters include Billy Bones and Long John Silver. For 10 points, name this author of The Master of Ballantrae and Treasure Island.
Robert Louis Stevenson 
7

122910-)
This poem claims that everything in nature is like "bubbles on the sea," in that "they rise, they break, and to that sea return." Vladimir Nabokov took the name "Zembla" from a place mentioned in this poem, whose second part declares that, faced with vice, "we first endure, then pity, then embrace." This poem's description of a "poor Indian, whose untutor'd mind / Sees God in clouds, or hears him in the wind" is an oft-invoked example of the noble savage. The first of the four (*) epistles that constitute this poem is about the Great Chain of Being, of which the speaker says that "All are but parts of one stupendous whole, whose body Nature is, and God the soul." This poem is the source of aphorisms like "Hope springs eternal in the human breast," "The proper study of mankind is man," and "Whatever is, is right." For 10 points, name this long poem about humanity by Alexander Pope.
"An Essay on Man" 
7

122924-)
Basil Bunting's poetic response to this collection begins with the line "There are the Alps. What is there to say about them?" A poem in this collection described John Adams as "the man who at certain points / made us / at certain points / saved us." Another poem in this collection notes that "What thou lov'st well is thy true heritage," and its second poem opens "Hang it all, (*) Robert Browning; there can be but the one 'Sordello.'" The 45th part of this collection states that Duccio, Piero della Francesca, and other artists "came not by usura." Thomas Hart Benton heavily inspired this collection's "Section: Rock-Drill." One part of this collection won the first Bollingen Prize and was written during the author's imprisonment in Pisa. For 10 points, name this collection of 120 poems by Ezra Pound.
The Cantos [accept The Pisan Cantos] 
7

122930-)
A woman in this play quips about her past life as an "Irish rat" who was rhymed to death. One character in this play learned to swear "by his honor" from a knight who swore by his honor of the tastiness of rotten pancakes and mustard. On the eve of launching a military expedition, one of the villains of this play takes up the monastic life after a chance encounter with a holy man. The most famous speech in this play describes a "second childishness and mere oblivion, (*) sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything." Phoebe weds Silvius and Duke Senior regains the throne from his brother Duke Frederick at the end of this play, which is mainly set at the Forest of Arden, where Jacques delivers the "seven ages of man" speech. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy in which Orlando and Rosalind get together, and we learn that "all the world's a stage." 
As You Like It 
7

122962-)
In a poem by this author, Nature itself says of an ugly landscape that "the Last Judgment's fire must cure this place, calcine its clods and set my prisoners free." The speaker of a poem by this author is unable to "see with your eyes, and set my heart / Beating by yours, and drink my fill / At your soul's springs," plaintively declaring: "Only I discern - Infinite passion, and the pain / Of finite hearts that yearn." The speaker of a poem by this author is guided by a "hoary (*) cripple, with malicious eye." The title of that poem is taken from a nonsense phrase spoken by Tom O'Bedlam in King Lear. In a poem by him, an emissary sees a bronze statue of Neptune cast by Claus of Innsbruck and learns of a woman with a "heart too soon made glad." For 10 points, name this English poet of dramatic monologues like "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came" and "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning
7

122980-)
This novel's protagonist is accosted by a man saying the word "Water" and tries to silence him before he realizes he's asking for a drink of water for his sick child. The narrator of this novel creates a packet of documents with which he tries to piece together the ending of the story, including a letter written by the title character and a letter from the title character's parson father. This novel features a butterfly collector who advises the royal Mohammed Bonso, named (*) Stein. Its protagonist falls in love with a mixed-race woman named Jewel. In this novel, a raid by the pirate Gentleman Brown leads to the death of Doramin's son, Dain Waris. Its title character ends up in Patusan after shamefully abandoning his ship Patna, and has his story told by the author's recurring character Charles Marlow. For 10 points, name this Joseph Conrad novel.
Lord Jim 
7

123007-)
In this country, two characters are reconciled when a woman convinces both of them to drink from a bottle of milk which has been warmed up for a dead child. In this country, Harriet is hit in the face by a bouquet thrown at a performance of Lucia di Lammermoor. This country is where a frivolous woman falls in love with a dentist's son despite being supervised by the more level-headed Caroline Abbott. Another visitor to this country is chaperoned by (*) Charlotte Bartlett and goes on a tour with the novelist Eleanor Lavish. That character's complaints about her hotel accommodations lead Mr. Emerson to offer to switch rooms with her. For 10 points, name this tourist destination in E. M. Forster's novels Where Angels Fear to Tread and A Room with a View, which are partly set in Tuscany. 
Italy [or Italia; or Italian Republic; or Repubblica Italiana] 
7

123012-)
This novel's plot is the basis for that of Empire of the Atom by A. E. van Vogt. A character in this novel gives another a love potion which is actually a strong aphrodisiac, causing her to have affairs left and right and ultimately get exiled to an island. A number of characters in this novel are described as "crab apples" on the protagonist's family tree. The narrator of this novel is told that he will "speak clear" nineteen hundred years in the future, and learns to love history from his tutor (*) Athenodorus. Its protagonist's future is foreshadowed when a wolf cub falls into his arms as a child. Many characters consider this novel's narrator unfit to rule because of his stammer and general sickliness, but he ends up taking power after the assassination of Caligula. For 10 points, name this Robert Graves novel about a Roman emperor
I, Claudius 
7

123036-)
This novel ends with the protagonist begging God: "I'm too tired and old to learn to love, leave me alone forever." A boy's sudden recovery from appendicitis and the clearing of a strawberry birthmark from a preacher's face are miracles posthumously attributed to a woman in this novel. The protagonist of this novel leaves a funeral with Waverly's girlfriend and hires the detective Alfred Parkis, who recovers a woman's diary. The title event of this novel is precipitated by a (*) V-1 rocket exploding during an air raid in front of an apartment where a couple has just had sex. In this novel, the wife of the civil servant Henry flees from the protagonist into a rainy night, catching the pneumonia that kills her. For 10 points, name this novel in which Sarah Miles breaks off her liaison with Maurice Bendrix, by Graham Greene.
The End of the Affair 
7

123057-)
A character from this collection insists that "Lux upon Lux" was Pope Leo XIII's motto. At the end of that story from this collection, the protagonist refuses to light the candles at a church service. In another story from this collection, only two people show up for a planned expedition to the Pigeon House, and agree to use the code names "Smith" and "Murphy" when talking to a man who goes on about Lord Lytton novels and launches into a diatribe about how any boy who talks to a girl should be (*) whipped. The protagonist of another story from this collection awkwardly asks Lily about her love life, is accused of lacking patriotism by his dance partner Miss Ivors, and learns that Michael Furey had sung "The Lass of Aughrim" to his wife Greta in her youth. For 10 points, name this collection featuring "Grace," "An Encounter," and "The Dead," by James Joyce.
Dubliners
7

123093-)
A novel by this author ends with a couple telling their memories of each other to a boatman, who then refuses to ferry both of them to an island at the same time. In that novel by him, Wistan rescues a boy named Edwin who is thought to have been bitten by a monster, and the setting is a land covered by a mist which makes people unable to remember the past. The protagonist of a novel by this author tries to conceal the sentimental romance novel he's reading from a woman, and listens to the radio show Twice a Week or More to help improve his (*) bantering skills. That novel by him is about a man who has to deal with his father William's stroke and his unexpressed desire for Miss Kenton. This author of The Buried Giant wrote a novel about a butler at Darlington Hall named Stevens. For 10 points, name this author of The Remains of the Day.
Kazuo Ishiguro 
7

123123-)
In a play by this man, a toast to "the pirates, preachers, poteen-makers", "jobbing jockies", and "parching peelers", is given by Sara Tansey. Arthur Griffith was enraged by the line "a drift of chosen females, standing in their shift" in a play by this man in which the widow Dame Quin fails to prevent another character from recognizing the winner of a mule race. Nora and Cathleen console Maurya after Bartley, the sixth and last of her sons, (*) drowns in one of this man's many works set in the Aran Islands. Riots broke out at the Abbey Theater premiere of a play by this man in which Pegeen Mike falls in love with Christy Mahon, who claims to have killed his father. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of Riders to the Sea and The Playboy of the Western World.
John Millington Synge [or Edmund John Millington Synge] 
5

123128-)
This poet describes how "earth's inward narrow crooked lanes do purge sea water's fretful salt away," in a self-deprecating poem which concludes "I, which was two fools, do so grow three." He wrote that "soldiers find wars, and lawyers find out still litigious men" in a poem from which Cleanth Brooks chose the title The Well-Wrought Urn, and begins "For God's sake (*) hold your tongue, and let me love." This poet listed "Fate, Chance, Kings, and desperate men" as masters of an entity that some have called "Mighty and dreadfull." That poem by this author of "The Canonization" ends simply: "death, thou shalt die." For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet whose tenth Holy Sonnet begins "Death, be not proud."
John Donne
5

123132-)
The addressee of this poem "saw in sleep old palaces and towers" while "beside a pumice isle in Baiae's bay," and is held responsible for wakening a sea from "his summer dreams." This poem describes "winged seeds" that lie "cold and low" like a "corpse within its grave" until they are moved by the addressee's "azure sister", who blows a "clarion o'er the dreaming earth". In the final stanza of this poem, the speaker commands, "Drive my (*) dead thoughts over the universe" to the title "Wild Spirit," who is called both "Destroyer" and "Preserver". This poem ends with the question, "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" For 10 points, name this poem addressed to the "breath of Autumn's being," by Percy Shelley.
"Ode to the West Wind"
5

123211-)
In a novel by this author, Edward Ferrars and Colonel Brandon marry Elinor and Marianne Dashwood, who represent the title concepts. In another work by this author, Mr Darcy falls in love with (*) Elizabeth Bennett despite their preconceived ideas about each other. For ten points, name this English author of "sentimental novels" like Emma, Sense and Sensibility, and Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen
1

123230-)
In this play, Lennox and a nobleman from Fife enter Inverness Castle, breaking the protagonist's focus on a murder. This play's title murderer becomes the Thane of Glamis and (*) Cawdor, in accordance with a prophecy given by three witches to him and Banquo, and takes the throne after killing King Duncan. For ten points, name this "Scottish play" by William Shakespeare.
The Tragedy of Macbeth
1

123252-)
A poem in this format by Elizabeth Barrett Browning asks "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways," and is collected in "these poems" from the Portuguese. An (*) Elizabethan version of this poetic form is composed of three quatrains and a couplet. "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?" is a poem in this format written by Shakespeare. For ten points, name these fourteen-line poems.
sonnets
1

123271-)
In this novel, a house in which all clocks have been stopped at 8:40 is inhabited by an old woman in a wedding dress. The protagonist of this novel shows kindness to escaped convict (*) Abel Magwitch, who becomes his secret benefactor, allowing the protagonist to marry Estella. For ten points, name this Charles Dickens novel about the fortunes of Philip "Pip" Pirrup.
Great Expectations
1

123303-)
This character is introduced by Stamford, and discovers that the mysterious Red Headed League is a cover for a plot to rob a bank. This character apparently dies in a scuffle at the (*) Reichenbach Falls with his nemesis, Professor Moriarty. For ten points, name this detective created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, who resides at 221B Baker Street with John Watson.
Sherlock Holmes (accept either underlined name)
1

123320-)
A character in this novel gets a piece of parmesan cheese from Dr Livesey's snuff box in exchange for his help. In this novel, Dick Johnson tears a page from a Bible to make a (*) "black spot," and Billy Bones tells Jim Hawkins to look out for the cook aboard the Hispaniola. For ten points, name this novel about Long John Silver's search for Captain Kidd's treasure, written by Robert Louis Stevenson?
Treasure Island, or the Mutiny of the Hispaniola
1

123332-)
In a story by this author, "The Lass of Aughrim" is sung while Gretta Conroy reminisces about Michael Furey. In a novel by this man, Blazes Boylan has an affair with Molly, the wife of Leopold Bloom, who represents the title hero of this man's stream-of-consciousness novel (*) Ulysses. For ten points, "The Dead" is a short story from Dubliners, a collection by what Irish author?
James Augustine Aloysius Joyce
1

123342-)
A character in this play describes himself as "constant as the North star" after being asked to repeal Cimber's banishment. A funeral speech in this play begins, (*) "friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears," and mocks the title statesman's killer, Brutus. For ten points, identify this Shakespeare tragedy about the death of a Roman emperor.
The Tragedy of Julius Caesar
1

123344-)
A poem about this country's national dish hails the "great chieftain o' the puddin' race." A poem written in the vernacular language of this country claims that "the best-laid schemes o'mice an' men / gang aft agley," and was written by the poet of "To a Louse" and "To a (*) Mouse." For ten points, name this nation within the United Kingdom, whose poet Robert Burns wrote "Address to a Haggis."
Scotland (accept Alba)
1

123392-)
In a poem addressed to this man, the speaker sees himself "as one who sits ashore and longs . . . to visit dolphin-coral in deep seas"; that sonnet to this man ends by invoking "Dian (dy-ANN), Queen of Earth, and Heaven, and Hell" and opens with the speaker "standing aloof in giant ignorance." In another sonnet, this "deep-brow'd" man is called a ruler of a "wide expanse," unlike the "many goodly states and kingdoms" that the speaker has seen; that poem's speaker recalls feeling, upon reading works originally by this man, like "some watcher of the skies when a new planet swims into his ken" or "stout Cortez when with eagle eyes he star'd at the Paci c" from "a peak in Darien." For 10 points, name this subject of a John Keats sonnet praising George Chapman's translation of this man's Iliad.
Homer [or Homeros]
7

123402-)
A poem by Richard Brautigan reimagines this event as a rape at the hands of "an evil  sherman who was dressed in clothes that had no childhood." Upon learning of this event, a character offers to eat a crocodile and invites mountains to pile up over him so as to "make Ossa (oh-sah) like a wart." Before this event, its central character claims that "you must wear your rue with a difference" and sings "hey non nonny, nonny." This event occurs offstage when an "envious sliver" breaks off a willow that "grows aslant a brook," as reported by Gertrude to the victim's brother, Laertes (LAIR-teez). It occurs a er a woman is driven mad by the death of Polonius and the behavior of a man who tells her to "get thee to a nunnery." For 10 points, name this fatal event that befalls a young woman in Shakespeare's Hamlet.
death of Ophelia [or drowning of Ophelia; accept answers implying that Ophelia has died or drowned or committed suicide]
7

123447-)
This author warned of an enemy who knows "your heart is luminous / in the watched dark" and will "shut the sun" to become "the last Samson of your zodiac" in a poem set "on almost the incendiary eve." This poet wrote that he must enter "the synagogue of the ear of corn" but will not give "any further / elegy of innocence and youth" in a poem that concludes "a er the  rst death, there is no other." This man gave those poems about the London Blitz the titles "Deaths and Entrances" and "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London." In another poem, he wrote that "wise men at their end know dark is right" and that "old age should burn and rave at close of day." For 10 points, name this heavy-drinking Welsh poet of "Do not go gentle into that good night."
Dylan Thomas [or Dylan Marlais Thomas]
7

123474-)
This poet wrote that, although "a prince can make a belted knight, / a marquis, [or a] duke," "the pith of sense and pride of worth / are higher rank than all that." He noted that "my Mary's asleep by thy murmuring stream" in a poem that asks the title river to "&amp;ow gently" so as to "disturb not her dream." This poet of "A0on Water" wrote a poem in which the speaker pledges to love until "the rocks melt with the sun" and "while the sands of life shall run." Another of his poems is addressed to a creature that "art blessed, compared with me" because "the present only toucheth thee." In that poem about a "wee, sleeket, cowran, tim'rous beastie," this man wrote that "the best laid schemes o' Mice an' Men gang a0 agley" (gahng ah  ah-GLAY). For 10 points, name this Scottish poet of "A Red, Red Rose" and "To a Mouse."
Robert Burns [or Rabbie Burns; prompt on "Bard of Ayrshire" or "Ploughman Poet"]
7

123508-)
When a man in this play claims to be experienced beyond his age, another character quips that "experience is the name everyone gives to their mistakes." The title character of this play is told that "ideals are dangerous things" but "realities are better" a er giving away a photo of herself and her son, Gerard, as a parting gi . In response to the suggestion that most men are good, a man in this play says that "we are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars." Augustus Lorton's friends call him "Tuppy" in this play, whose title character hides behind a curtain in the rooms of Lord Darlington but is able to slip away when another woman claims the title object as her own. Mrs. Erlynne refuses to tell Margaret that she is her long-lost mother in, for 10 points, what play by Oscar Wilde?
Lady Windermere's Fan
7

123547-)
This author drew a frontispiece for one of his novels in which a fool looks at his re&amp;ection in a cracked mirror. The Fairy Blackstick helps the true heirs of Pa&amp;agonia and Crim Tartary marry and distributes the title beauty-granting magical objects in one of this author's novels. This author coined the term "Oxbridge" in a novel whose title character marries his foster sister Laura Bell and refuses to take Sir Clavering's Parliament seat through blackmail. This author of The Rose and the Ring and The History of Pendennis created a woman who idealizes her husband George Osborne, who dies in the Waterloo Campaign. The anti-heroine of this man's "novel without a hero" marries Rawdon Crawley and befriends Amelia Sedley. For 10 points, what author created Becky Sharp in Vanity Fair?
William Makepeace Thackeray
7

123553-)
This man wrote of a so-called painter who calls himself the "final barber, the last beautician" in one of 22 dramatic monologues spoken by Death in his collection Flight Among the Tombs. The German epigraph "we have a law, and according to the law he must die" precedes a poem by this man, which prophesies that a murdered boy "will walk in as you're sitting down to a meal" and is titled "The Book of Yolek." The title figure in a poem by this man "said one or two unprintable things" after she was brought "all the way down from London" and addressed as a "mournful cosmic last resort." This man wrote about a woman who "had read Sophocles in a fairly good translation" and thus caught the "bitter allusion to the sea" in a Matthew Arnold poem. For 10 points, what British poet wrote "The Dover Bitch"?
Anthony Hecht [or Anthony Evan Hecht]
7

123574-)
In a reimagining of this poem, the speaker warns that "hunger shall make thy modest zone / and cheat fond death of all but bone" and offers the addressee "peace and plenty, bed and board, / that chance employment may afford." This poem's speaker states that "we will sit upon the rocks" and look upon "shallow Rivers to whose falls melodious birds sing madrigals." In a reply to this poem, its addressee refuses offers of a "belt of straw and ivy buds" and "coral clasps and amber studs." Cecil Day-Lewis's response to this poem incorporates its two closing lines, which mention "these delights thy mind may move." Sir Walter Raleigh wrote a "nymph's reply" to, for 10 points, what pastoral poem by Christopher Marlowe in which the title character urges "come live with me and be my love"?
"The Passionate Shepherd to His Love"
7

123653-)
In a story by this author, a resident of Jeddah, who imagines that her furniture is moving during the night, is tormented by an unwanted friendship with the Pakistani man Ijaz. This author's time in Saudi Arabia inspired that short story, "Sorry to Disturb." In a novel that opens in Putney as the protagonist is brutally beaten by his drunkard father Walter, this author created a protagonist who raises Rafe Sadler as his clerk and loses his family to sweating sickness. Her novel The Mirror and the Light will complete a trilogy that has won two Booker Prizes and draws from a cast of historical  gures including Stephen Gardiner, Jane Seymour, Thomas Wolsey, and Henry VIII. For 10 points, what British writer portrayed the life of Thomas Cromwell in her novels Bring Up the Bodies and Wolf Hall?
Hilary Mantel (man-TELL) [or Hilary Mary Mantel]
7

124338-)
One of these places is home to a preacher for the Church of the Quivering Brethren and a visiting writer named Mr. Mybug. A handbook called The Higher Common Sense is used by Flora Poste to solve the Starkadders' problems in a Stella Gibbons novel titled for one of these places called Cold Comfort. Residents of another of these places fantasize about a place where it is Sunday every day called (*) Sugarcandy Mountain. The "Battle of the Windmill" is fought at one of these places, which is home to a character who repeats "I will work harder" before being sent to the knackers. In a novel titled for one of them, Old Major introduces the song "Beasts of England." For 10 points, what type of place is home to animals like Snowball and Napoleon in a George Orwell novel?
farms [accept Cold Comfort Farm or Animal Farm]
5

124349-)
One poem about this man commands "Earth, receive an honoured guest / [This man] is laid to rest." That poem mentions how "the brooks were frozen, the airports almost deserted" on the day when "he disappeared in the dead of winter." This author asked "What can I but enumerate old themes" in a poem whose final stanza concludes with the speaker laying down "where all the ladders start / in the (*) foul rag and bone shop of the heart". This author, whose death was the subject of a poem by W.H. Auden, wrote a poem that asks "What rough beast, its hour come round at last, / slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?" For 10 points, name this Irish poet of "The Circus Animals' Desertion" who included the line "Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold" in his "The Second Coming."
William Butler Yeats
5

124356-)
While employed at one of these places, Hollis Lomax clashes with the title character of John Williams's novel Stoner. The black conservative Monty Kipps and his liberal rival Howard Belsey are employed at one of these places in Zadie Smith's On Beauty. A rash of suicides at one of these places is caused by the arrival of Zuleika Dobson in a Max Beerbohm novella. An employee of one of these places leaves his coworker and girlfriend Margaret Peel in favor of Christine Callaghan after mocking his boss, Ned (*) Welch, during a speech on "Merrie England". Another of these places is where Charles Ryder meets and befriends Sebastian Flyte in Brideshead Revisited. For 10 points, identify the setting of Kingsley Amis's Lucky Jim, as well as David Lodge's Campus Trilogy.
colleges [or universities; or college campus(es); or university campus(es); prompt on "campuses" or "schools"]
5

124373-)
A version of this character modeled on Jean-Paul Sartre is the protagonist of a novel in which he is wounded by a bull after becoming stuck in a tree. He learns about theology from Ork and becomes entranced by the poetry recited by the Shaper in a novel that ends with him surrounded by animals, whispering that he's "had an accident...So may you all." In another literary work, this character is called a "sceadugenga", which is translated as "shadow-stalker" by (*) Seamus Heaney. This subject of a 1971 John Gardner novel is described as a "descendant of Cain", and his wrath is first invoked after he is disturbed by the loud noise of carousing at Heorot. For 10 points, name this scourge of Hrothgar's mead hall whose arm is torn off during his clash with Beowulf.
Grendel
5

124379-)
This play features the recurring image of a man standing in a saddle and banging on a window at dawn. A character in this play shouts "fire!" to demonstrate "the misuse of free speech" shortly after offering to lick another character's toe to test the wind. Two characters in this play attempt to trip another man with their belts by tying them together. In this play, a boy is told to put on a skirt in order to act out the (*) Rape of the Sabine Women. In the last scene of this play, drum and flute music precedes the appearance of the Tragedians from barrels on a ship. This play opens with the main characters flipping a coin which has come up heads ninety-two times in a row. For 10 points, name this play about two minor characters from Hamlet, written by Tom Stoppard.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
5

124398-)
A passage in this novel contains sections on the pains of loss, conscience, and extension, the second of which takes the form of the "worm...of the triple sting". In its first chapter, Athy claims that several expelled boys had been caught "smugging". A Christmas dinner in this novel erupts into a shouting match between Mr. Casey and Aunt Dante over the downfall of Charles Stuart (*) Parnell. Its opening passage describes an encounter between a "moocow" and "baby tuckoo". Its protagonist hangs out with Davin, Lynch and Cranly at University College, and during a retreat at Belvedere, attends Father Arnall's sermon on hell, which convinces him to become a devout Catholic. For 10 points, identify this James Joyce novel about the childhood of Stephen Dedalus.
 Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
5

124419-)
A poem by this author ends with the lines, "If I should meet thee / After long years, / How should I greet thee? / With silence and tears". This author of "When We Two Parted" wrote a poem that lists "A mind at peace with all below" and "A heart whose love is innocent" among a particular woman's virtues. "Ianthe" is the dedicatee of long semi-autobiographical poem by this man whose title character (*) wanders across Europe and Asia Minor. Anne Wilmot is the subject of a poem by this man that notes "all that's best of dark and bright / Meet in her aspect and her eyes". For 10 points, identify this namesake of a type of moody Romantic hero, a British poet who wrote Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and "She Walks in Beauty" before he died fighting in Greece.
Lord Byron [or George Gordon, Lord Byron]
5

124426-)
In a poem often attributed to this person, a tomb containing the talking corpse of an ancient judge is unearthed during the building of a cathedral. A story about idle workers in a vineyard is told to the speaker of a poem by this author after he falls asleep and sees his deceased daughter across a river. Another poem by this man depicts hunts for deer, a boar, and a fox, whose carcasses are traded for kisses with a man who hides a green girdle he receives from the wife of (*) Bertilak. All of this poet's extant works, including Cleanness and Patience, are found in the Cotton Nero A.x. ("a"-ten) manuscript. For 10 points, name this anonymous author usually named for his poem about the title gem or for his poem in which a man enters a beheading game with a green knight.
the Pearl Poet [or the Gawain Poet]
5

124449-)
A poem by this man opens with a French epigraph comparing countries to pages of a book, all of which he has found to be equally bad. This poet described a man recalling "his young barbarians all at play" as "the arena swims around him" in an ekphrasis on The Dying Gaul. A poem by this man declares that the title event will occur because "the sword outwears its sheath" and "the heart must pause to breathe". He dedicated two cantos "To Ianthe" of a four-canto poem whose title indicates that its autobiographical hero is not yet a knight. This poet of "So we'll go no more a-roving" viciously attacked Bob Southey in the opening of his unfinished satiric epic about an easily-seduced Spaniard. For 10 points, name this English poet of Childe Harold's Pilgrimage and Don Juan (JOO-in).
Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron
7

124474-)
The speaker of this poem notes that "every hour is saved from that eternal silence, something more, a bringer of new things". After praising men who "ever with a frolic welcome took the thunder and the sunshine", this poem's speaker observes, "the long day wanes; the slow moon climbs", before insisting, "Come, my friends, 'tis not too late to seek a newer world". The speaker of this poem says he will give up "the sceptre and the isle" to his son who "works his work". This poem ends with the determination "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield", and expresses the speaker's intention to pass his rule to Telemachus. For 10 points, name this dramatic monologue by Lord Tennyson written from the perspective of a King of Ithaca.
"Ulysses" 
7

124488-)
A character in this play compares himself to carrion "lying by the violet in the sun", bemoaning that he rots in the sunlight instead of growing. That soliloquy from this play asks, "The tempter or the tempted, who sins most?" and occurs after the villain speaks with a woman about to become a nun. In this play, a shunned woman named Mariana pretends to be someone else under cover of darkness as she has sex with her betrothed, leading to the pardon of a man who has impregnated Juliet. Duke Vincentio disguises himself as Friar Lodowick in this problem play, in which Isabella is offered the chance to save her brother Claudio by sleeping with Angelo. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy that centers on a ban on fornication in Vienna.
Measure for Measure
7

124497-)
In a poem by this man, a boy is bound "with belts and straps" before an angel appears and commands, "Offer the Ram of Pride instead of him", but is ignored. Another of his poems describes a tunnel "scooped through granites which titanic wars had groined". This poet imagined Abraham going through with the sacrifice of Isaac in "The Parable of the Young Man and the Old". A poem by him imagines "the shrill, demented choirs" that mourn men in whose eyes "shine the holy glimmers of good-byes". "An ecstasy of fumbling" follows the call "Gas! Gas! Quick, boys!" in a poem by this man whose title is taken from Horace. For 10 points, name this World War I poet who wrote "Strange Meeting", "Anthem for Doomed Youth", and "Dulce et Decorum Est".
Wilfred Owen [or Wilfred Edward Salter Owen]
7

124516-)
This writer wrote about a man and "his last gruel of winter seeds caked in his stomach" in a poem concluding, "In the old man-killing parishes I will feel lost, unhappy and at home". Another of his poems describes how "bubbles gargled delicately, bluebottles wove a strong gauze (goz) of sound around the smell". In addition to writing about wanting to go to Aarhus (AR-hooss) to see the "peat- brown head" of "The Tollund Man", this poet wrote about a "rat-grey fungus" that leads the speaker to conclude, "It wasn't fair that all the lovely canfuls smelt of rot". This poet of "Blackberry-Picking" wrote about the death of his younger brother in a poem ending, "A four foot box, a foot for every year". For 10 points, name this Irish poet who included "Mid-Term Break" in Death of a Naturalist and translated Beowulf.
Seamus Heaney (SHAY-mus HEE-nee) [or Seamus Justin Heaney] 
7

124539-)
In a lyric sequence, this poet wrote that "death will not appal one who, past doubtings all, waits in unhope". This poet wrote, "Well, World, you have kept faith with me", at the beginning of a poem labeled "a reflection on my eighty-sixth birthday". This poet of "In Tenebris" and "He Never Expected Much" wrote, "The land's sharp features seemed to be the Century's corpse outleant", in a poem about a time when "every spirit upon earth seemed fervourless as I". In that poem of his, the singing of the title bird conveys "some blessed Hope, whereof he knew and I was unaware". For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of "The Darkling Thrush" also known for such novels as Far from the Madding Crowd and Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
7

124572-)
The protagonist of this story is forced to be a witness for a wedding because he is the only man in a church. A character in this story who first appears wearing a mask introduces himself as the Count Von Kramm. Early in this story, two men are able to surmise that a piece of paper originated in mainland Europe because of the markings of its manufacturer. Its central scheme involves throwing a plumber's rocket into the residence of a woman who will be forced to reveal the location of her most prized possession because she thinks that the building is on fire. This story's plot is sent into motion when a European duke asks its central characters to retrieve a damaging photograph from Irene Adler. For 10 points, name this Sherlock Holmes story named after a Czech region.
"A Scandal in Bohemia"
7

124591-)
In a play by this dramatist, a woman sings in Italian as her husband pulls her hair and threatens to stab her if she doesn't reveal who has impregnated her. In that play by this dramatist, a man declares "the hapless fruit... hath had from me a cradle and a grave" after he stabs a woman's womb. This dramatist created a servant who pretends to be disloyal to his master, encouraging Hippolita in a plot that ends with her poisoning herself at a wedding. This author of The Broken Heart included a scene in which Vasques stabs out the eyes of a bawdy servant in a play that details the consequences of Annabella and Giovanni's incestuous affair. For 10 points, name this Jacobean playwright of 'Tis Pity She's a Whore.
John Ford
7

124598-)
This character jumps into a river but begins to drown, requiring a comrade to save him "as Aeneas" once saved Anchises. That former friend of this character remembers him shaking due to epilepsy while in Spain. He insists he is "as constant as the northern star" while refusing to cancel the banishment of Cimber. This man's wife notes that "when beggars die, there are no comets seen", causing him to exclaim that "cowards die many times before their deaths". He last appears as an "evil spirit" telling his former friend he will see him soon. This man notes that a future enemy has a "lean and hungry look" and dismisses a soothsayer's warning. For 10 points, name this title character of a William Shakespeare play, who cries "Et tu, Brute?" when he is stabbed on the Ides of March.
Gaius Julius Caesar [or Gaius Julius Caesar]
7

124612-)
A character created by this author plays an imaginary violoncello with his right hand when he becomes angry. In a novel by this man, a caricature of the Times called The Jupiter launches a smear campaign under editor Tom Towers. This author created the de Courcy family, a member of which is courted by Adolphus Crosbie in The Small House at Allington. In another of his novels, Mrs. Proudie blocks the reappointment of the director of Hiram's Hospital. That novel of his begins with Archdeacon Grantly not succeeding his father as a bishop. John Bold attacks the 800 pound income of Septimus Harding despite falling in love with Septimus's daughter, Eleanor, in his novel The Warden. For 10 points, name this Victorian novelist who included Barchester Towers in his Barsetshire Chronicles.
Anthony Trollope
7

124633-)
When desperate for food, the protagonist of this novel steals a bone from a crippled dog and a sugar cube from a child's grave. A character in this novel has a dream in which he is unable to find a door at the end of a long hallway and decides that he will kill one man in every local village unless they help him track down an outlaw. The protagonist of this novel is brought food and taught Morse code by Coral Fellows while he is hiding out in her family's barn and laments that he has neglected his estranged daughter, Brigida. The "mestizo" is a stand-in for Judas in this book, in which the "lieutenant" uses the premise of a dying gringo's confession to lure the protagonist into a trap. For 10 points, name this novel about a whisky priest by Graham Greene.
The Power and the Glory
7

124669-)
Before using this thing, a woman repeats the cry "Wise!" despite her husband's insistence it is "foolish". After the final time it is used, a man opens a door to reveal "a quiet and deserted road". This thing was created by "a very holy man... to show that fate ruled people's lives" and its first owner ended up killing himself. It is thrown onto the fire by Sergeant-Major Morris, who obtained it while abroad in India. This item is last being used to prevent the presumably horribly mutilated Herbert from entering his parents' home. This thing is responsible for Mr. and Mrs. White earning 200 pounds but only through the workplace death of their son. For 10 points, name this title object of a W. W. Jacobs story which grants three wishes, albeit in horrible ways.
the monkey's paw [prompt on paw; do not accept "monkey"]
7

124700-)
Near the end of a novel by this man, an elephant escapes from the zoo with "a large and fat old gentleman" riding on its back. This man ended that novel with the protagonist arguing he has suffered and then seeing a giant face ask "Can ye drink of the cup that I drink of?". This author wrote a story in which Aristide Valentin hunts a thief whose attack on reason reveals bad theology and exposes his disguise as a clergyman. A recurring character first appears in his story "The Blue Cross", where he captures his future partner, the jewel thief Flambeau. This man wrote a novel in which Gabriel Syme infiltrates an anarchist council whose heads have names of the days of the week. For 10 points, name this Catholic creator of amateur detective Father Brown who wrote The Man Who Was Thursday.
G. K. Chesterton [or Gilbert Keith Chesterton]
7

124702-)
A poem set at this place uses the recurring image of a man "who looked so wistfully at the day". A man living here wrote that Christ "ranks with the poets" and that he doesn't "regret for a single moment having lived for pleasure". A poem set at this place was inspired by the death of Charles Thomas Wooldridge, a former member of the Royal Horse Guards. A poem set here notes that "some do it with a bitter look, some with a flattering word", while cowards use a kiss. While residing at this place, a man wrote a spiritually themed letter addressed to "Bosie", the son of the Marquess of Queensbury. A poem set at this place notes that "each man kills the thing he loves". For 10 points, name this place where De Profundis was written, the prison that Oscar Wilde wrote a "ballad" about.
Reading Gaol (RED-ing JAIL) [or HM Prison Reading]
7

124723-)
A poem set at this place uses the recurring image of a man "who looked so wistfully at the day". A man living here wrote that Christ "ranks with the poets" and that he doesn't "regret for a single moment having lived for pleasure". A poem set at this place was inspired by the death of Charles Thomas Wooldridge, a former member of the Royal Horse Guards. A poem set here notes that "some do it with a bitter look, some with a flattering word", while cowards use a kiss. While residing at this place, a man wrote a spiritually themed letter addressed to "Bosie", the son of the Marquess of Queensbury. A poem set at this place notes that "each man kills the thing he loves". For 10 points, name this place where De Profundis was written, the prison that Oscar Wilde wrote a "ballad" about.
Reading Gaol (RED-ing JAIL) [or HM Prison Reading]
7

124748-)
A visitor to this place incessantly talks about his stay at Ecclesford with Lord Ravenshaw, which was ruined by the death of a grandmother. That visitor to this place, John Yates, kicks off an event in which residents adopt roles such as Amelia, Agatha, Anhalt, and the Baron. The owner of this place also owns a plantation in Antigua, whose implications of slave labor have been exaggerated by Edward Said. Many of the residents here disobey their father's wishes by acting out the scandalous play Lovers Vows. Henry and Mary Crawford flirt with this estate's residents. It is owned by Sir Thomas Bertram, whose son Edmund eventually marries the shy female protagonist. For 10 points, name this estate where Fanny Price goes to live, the title residence of an 1814 Jane Austen novel.
Mansfield Park
7

124762-)
In a play that begins in this city, a character's complicated proof that a servant is a sheep makes the latter note "such another proof will make me cry 'baa.'" In another scene in this city, a character uses a shoe with a hole in it to represent his mother in a long monologue where he berates his dog for not crying. That play features a resident of this city, Julia, swearing a vow of love to the employer of Launce, the idiot servant who owns a dog named Crab. That play begins in this city but features the young men Valentine and Proteus leaving it to expand their horizons. In another play set here, Prince Escalus tries to stop the Montagues and Capulets from feuding. For 10 points, what Italian city is the setting of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, as well as a comedy about "two gentlemen" from here?
Verona
7

125202-)
This speech contains the exhortation: "O judgment! Thou art fled to brutish beasts, and men have lost their reason." After this speech, its speaker declares: "Mischief, thou art afoot! Take what course thou wilt!" The speaker of this speech disingenuously claims that he has "neither wit, nor words, nor worth, action, nor utterance, nor the power of speech, to stir men's blood." Its speaker declares "you are not wood, you are not stones, but men" to explain why he will not read another man's (*) will. The speaker of this speech claims that when the poor cried, the subject of this speech wept, leading to the observation that "ambition should be made of sterner stuff." It condemns a certain action as "the most unkindest cut of all." After claiming "the evil that men do lives after them, the good is oft interred with their bones," the speaker repeats three times that another character "is an honorable man." For 10 points, name this speech which begins "Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears."
Mark Antony's funeral oration over Julius Caesar [prompt on partial answer, that indicates only the speaker or only the setting; accept any equivalent that makes it clear that Mark Antony is the speaker, and that Julius Caesar is dead] 
9

125209-)
Locations described in this poem include "dome, pyramid, and pinnacle, / A city of death" to which an eagle brings "some hunter's bone," tracked by a wolf. In its fifth and final section, this poem's speaker ponders the result "if to the human mind's imaginings / Silence and solitude were vacancy." This poem, first published in its author's History of a Six Weeks' Tour, precedes its author's "Ode to Liberty" in referring to the earth as "daedal." "Gleams of a remoter world" inhabit the dreams of this poem's speaker, who searches for the (*) witch of Poesy in the "many-voiced," "dizzy" Ravine of Arve. This poem begins by noting the flow of "[t]he everlasting universe of things" through the mind, as triggered by the "still, snowy, and serene" title location, "piercing the infinite sky." For 10 points, name this set of "Lines Written in the Vale of Chamouni," a Percy Shelley poem about a European landmark.
Mont Blanc: Lines Written in the Vale of Chamouni
9

125227-)
In one work in this genre, a woman pretends to go fetch a glass of water and purposely leaves a lit candle in a room with calico curtains, to start a fire. In another work in this genre, the protagonist's disfigurement in a train accident allows her to become a governess for her family that she deserted. Lady Isabel Carlyle is reunited with her husband in that work in this genre, Ellen Wood's East Lynne. The lawyer Robert finds out that his uncle's wife was previously married to George Talboys and attempted murder by pushing him down a well in Elizabeth (*) Braddon's Lady Audley's Secret, an example of this genre. Its most prominent example contains an identity-swap arranged by Count Fosco which is exposed by Walter Hartright after the ominous appearance of Anne Catherick. For 10 points, Wilkie Collins's The Woman in White started what Victorian literary genre that aimed to create excitement through intricate plots often involving criminals?
sensation novels [grudgingly prompt on thriller or suspense; do NOT accept or prompt on any substitute that mentions "mystery" or "horror"]  
9

125257-)
This poem's speaker complains about those of turbulent temperament by saying: "The sudden blood of these men! at a word Â— / Praise them, it boils, or blame them, it boils too." The speaker of this poem recalls "kingly days" when "Too live the life grew, golden and not grey," and repeatedly expresses a desire to retreat to "sober pleasant Fiesole." This poem praises the "...perfect brow / And perfect eyes, and more than perfect mouth" of a woman, but laments that she cannot inspire beyond her beauty, saying "Had you, with these the same, but brought a (*) mind!" This poem's narrator meditates on the success of rivals who access "a heaven that's shut to [him]," and in whom "there burns a truer light." This poem's final line of "Again, the Cousin's whistle!" references the ongoing infidelity of its speaker's wife, Lucrezia. For 10 points, name this Robert Browning poem about an Italian painter of "faultless" but soulless works.
"Andrea del Sarto"
9

125274-)
Aldous Huxley claimed that the author who wrote this event was "mentally drowned and blinded by the sticky overflowings of his heart" in "Vulgarity in Literature," which takes this event and Poe's versification as chief case studies. This event, which occurs on a couch dressed with "some winter berries and green leaves," reflecting the affected character's wish to "put something near me that has loved the light," and is followed by a schoolmaster's speech about "Heaven's justice." Americans waiting dockside for copies of (*) Master Humphrey's Clock called out to ship passengers to ask if this event had occurred. The claim that only a person with "a heart of stone" could read of this event "without dissolving into tears...of laughter" was made by Oscar Wilde. This event befalls a girl who flees London with her grandfather to escape the money-lender Daniel Quilp. For 10 points, name this event that befalls the heroine near the end of Charles Dickens's The Old Curiosity Shop.
death of Little Nell [accept any answer mentioning the idea of dying and Little Nell or Nell Trent]
9

125296-)
A poem that compares the speaker's "black soul" to a prisoner asks it to become as red with blushing as it is with this word. The speaker asks God to make "a heavenly Lethean flood / and drown in it [this word]'s black memory" in a poem that ends "I think it mercy" if God will forget this word. That poem's speaker questions "why should intent or reason, born in me" make this word, "else equal," more heinous in him than "lecherous goats" and "poisonous minerals." A sonnet that begins "I am a little (*) world made cunningly" laments that this word "hath betrayed to endless night / My world's both parts, and oh, both parts must die." All of those sonnets are by John Donne, who also wrote one which argues that this word drags the speaker's "feeble flesh" towards hell. For 10 points, name these religious concepts that cause the speaker of the Holy Sonnets to despair that he will not be saved during the Last Judgment.
sins
9

125315-)
This poet described a building whose doors are "untaught to shut," because they know that the house "never didst deserve a foe." One poem by him tells a woman proud of her beauty: "That killing power is none of thine, / I gave it to thy voice, and eyes." This author of "To Saxham" adapted the "bower of bliss" from The Faerie Queene into a euphemism for a woman's cleavage in a poem in which he claims that his lips will write a "tract for lovers on the printed snow" of a woman's flesh. He wrote: "Here lies a King that rul'd as hee thought fit / The universall Monarchy of Wit" in the epitaph concluding his elegy upon the death of John (*) Donne. He is not Ben Jonson, but many of his most famous poems are addressed to Celia, whom he asked to fly with him "to Love's Elysium," in a poem that closes by asking why "this goblin Honour, which the world adores, / Should make men atheists, and not women whores?" For 10 points, name this Cavalier poet, the author of "A Rapture."
Thomas Carew [pronounced "carey," but accept a phonetic pronunciation]
9

125336-)
A character in this play was asked by an old lady to help her move an iron mangle; but when he found that he was unable to lift it, he told the old lady to shove it up her ass, and then punched her in the stomach. As an act of vindictiveness, a character in this play deliberately eats a cheese roll his younger brother was saving. Several characters in this play have an argument about whether someone went "the whole hog" with a woman, after being with that woman for two hours, leading that wife of a philosophy professor to be labeled a "tease." Near the end of this play, it is revealed that one character's dead wife (*) Jessie had an affair with his friend Macgregor in the back of Sam's cab. This play ends with Joey and Lenny negotiating with their father Max how to set their sister-in-law up as a prostitute. For 10 points, name this play by Harold Pinter, in which Teddy brings his wife Ruth to meet his family.  
The Homecoming
9

125370-)
In one work in this language, a character has a dream in which he witnesses a ceremony where two adulterers are bound in a golden chain and have their hearts locked with a golden key by a goddess. In another poem in this language, one title character is accused by the other of being a "wretched snowbound hen," to which she replies, "Do you possess a thing of note / Besides your ever-shrilling throat?" That earliest debate poem in this language concludes with the two title characters flying off in search of a wise man to settle their argument. This language of The (*) Owl and the Nightingale was also used to write a poem in which one title character is punished for mocking Love by being made to fall in love with Calchas' daughter. The Temple of Glas was inspired by another poem in this language, The House of Fame. Two title lovers are aided by Pandarus during the Trojan War in, for 10 points, what language in which Troilus and Criseyde was written by Chaucer?
Middle English [prompt on "English"; do NOT prompt on or accept "Old English"]
9

125382-)
This poet described reacting with the delight that birds find in "Winging wildly across the white / Orchards and dark-green fields" upon hearing "Everyone suddenly burst out singing." One of this author's poems praises people who "listen with delight / By tales of dirt and danger fondly thrilled." One of this author's speakers condemned the lack of patriotism of a man who "howled and beat his chest" because "his brother had gone west." In another poem by this author of "Glory of Women" and "Lamentations," (*) "Bulged, clotted heads" that "slept in the plastering slime" are mentioned before the speaker describes "the jolly old rain." He wrote a trilogy of novels about George Sherston, which begins with Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting Man. In his most famous poem, a cry of "O Christ, they're coming at us!" is heard before a soldier is shot, as the title maneuver fails. For 10 points, name this English author of "Counter-Attack" and other poems about World War I.
Siegfried (Loraine) Sassoon
9

125394-)
 speech given during this event lists impossible tasks like forbidding the mountain pines from shaking in the wind and standing on the beach and asking the tide to "bate his usual height." During this event, a character notes that some people get mad if they see a "gaping pig" or a cat, while others involuntarily urinate when they hear bagpipes. That character is subsequently accused during this event of being the reincarnation of a wolf who was hanged for killing a human, according to the Pythagorean doctrine. This event is peppered by exclamations like "A (*) Daniel Â… a second Daniel!". A speech given during this event describes "an attribute to God himself" which is "enthroned in the hearts of kings." This event is officially presided over by the Duke, but is taken over by Balthazar, who is actually a disguised Portia, who describes the "quality of mercy." For 10 points, name this event in which Shylock goes to court to demand his pound of flesh in a Shakespeare play.
the trial scene from The Merchant of Venice [or the trial of Antonio; or Act IV, Scene 1 of The Merchant of Venice]
9

125423-)
One character in this play weighs the good omen of getting out of bed backwards that morning with the bad omen of stumbling down the stairs and encountering a weasel. In the opening scene of this play, one character asks the protagonist if Plato will pay his bail, or if Epictetus or Seneca have taught him how to pay his debts without money, shortly before they both get Trapland drunk on sack so that he won't collect a debt. Every time his father's lawyer enters the room, the protagonist proclaims himself to be Truth, as part of pretending to be (*) insane in order to avoid signing a contract that would sign over his inheritance to his sailor brother Ben. A character named Scandal attempts to cuckold the astrology-loving Mr. Foresight in this play, whose protagonist is heartbroken when Angelica becomes engaged to his father Sir Sampson. For 10 points, name this Restoration comedy about Valentine Legend by William Congreve.
Love for Love
9

125440-)
A character in this work enjoins: "He that tastes Woman, Woman, Woman / He that tastes Woman, ruin meets." Guy Jones works his way up to lead role in a production of this work in Alan Ayckbourn's A Chorus of Disapproval. It is not The Recruiting Officer, but a character in this work states that holding his lover "amidst eternal Frost" would keep him warm on "Greenland's Coast" in a rendition of "Over the hills and far away." While awaiting execution at (*) Newgate in the final scene, its protagonist is granted reprieve by the title character due to the conventions of the genre. Matt of the Mint, Nimming Ned, and Crook-Finger'd Jack are part of the crew of this work's protagonist, who was based on real-life criminal Jack Sheppard. For 10 points, a love triangle between the jailer's daughter Lucy Lockit, the fence's child Polly Peachum, and the highwayman Macheath features in what ballad opera by John Gay?
The Beggar's Opera
9

125467-)
This person's husband may have been the intended subject of a poem that says the husband's "lair savoureth somewhat of a Kappurs stable." Another poem likely about this person describes how the poet "fled the fire that me brent by sea, by land, by water, and by wind," but that he now follows this person, "the coals that be quent, from Dover to Calais, against my mind." In another poem, this person is described as having "set my wealth in such a roar." That poem contrasts this person, called Brunet, with Phyllis, likely a reference to Elizabeth (*) Darrell. This person may have been directly referenced in a line of a poem describing "a net" used "to hold the wind." An animal used to represent this person is described as having a neck "graven with diamonds" and bears the message "Noli me tangere, for Caesar's I am." For 10 points, name this subject of "Whoso List to Hunt" and other poems by the infatuated Thomas Wyatt.
Anne Boleyn [prompt on "Brunet" before mentioned] 
9

125483-)
This novel mentions a man who defines cannibalism as eating a member of the British Empire, and therefore lives by eating Italian organ-grinders, in its opening chapter, which describes the people of the 20th-century playing the game of "Cheat the Prophet." A character in this novel pays forty children to hire every hansom cab in the city, so he can capture all their horses. Early in this novel, a man in a green uniform stabs his own hand, so he can use the blood to create a Nicaraguan flag. In this novel, a multi-army invasion of (*) Pump Street is foiled when all the streetlights are extinguished in the Battle of the Lamps, which causes the men of Wilfred Jarvis and Mr. Buck of North Kensington to massacre each other. A man who is randomly chosen to be King of England declares that each borough in London will be re-instated as its own city in, for 10 points, what novel in which Adam Wayne rebels against Auberon Quin for the title neighborhood's independence, the first novel of G.K. Chesterton?
The Napoleon of Notting Hill 
9

125498-)
The speaker of a poem set in one of these places sought "the simple life that Nature yields", but "Rapine and Wrong and Fear usurped her place / And a bold, artful, surly, savage race." That poem set in one of these places states: "Where Plenty smilesÂ—alas! She smiles for few," and those who do not taste her "Are as the slaves that dig the golden ore." In one of these places, a man heard "The watch-dog's voice that bayed the whispering wind / And the loud laugh that spoke the vacant mind." That one of these places was declared to be "by luxury betrayed." Decades before writing "The (*) Borough," George Crabbe established his reputation with a poem titled for one of these places. Crabbe's poem was written in response to another poem about one of these, in which "trade's unfeeling train / Usurp the land and dispossess the swain." For 10 points, Sweet Auburn is what sort of place that has been "deserted" in an Oliver Goldsmith poem?
villages
9

125527-)
One character in this play is chastised for sitting in Betty Carstairs' box for the cricket match at Lord's rather than in the grandstand with his lover. Another character in this play is miffed to receive the reply "I have given you exactly what you deserve. No less and certainly no more" when asking if he has received his "remove." That character in this play is caught while doing an impression of a man who forced him to explain a pun that he laughed at out of politeness, but didn't understand. Dr. Frobisher asks the protagonist of this play to deliver his (*) farewell speech before Fletcher's, so as not to provide an "anti-climax." Its protagonist is encouraged by Frank Hunter to leave his unfaithful wife Millie, and is deeply hurt to discover that he is referred to as "the Himmler of the lower fifth." For 10 points, Taplow gives retiring Latin teacher Andrew-Crocker Harris a copy of the title translation of Aeschylus' Agamemnon in what one-act play by Terence Rattigan?
The Browning Version 
9

125548-)
At one point in this poem, oak trees stoop down to hear a nightingale, and a thorn "draws / Within the skin the shrunken claws" to avoid pricking it. This poem includes the fanciful image of horses kicking their own tails, which miraculously transform into leeches. Its last major section describes the author's then student as "the Law / Of all her Sex, her Age's Awe." One part of this poem compares men mowing their way through grass with scythes to the Israelites crossing the Red Sea. It describes its dedicatee's ancestor storming a priory to rescue (*) Isabella Thwaites from life as a nun, and marry her. This poem describes a place that is "Heaven's Center, Nature's Lap. / And Paradise's only Map"; and it belongs to a genre established by Ben Jonson's "To Penshurst." This poem opens: "Within this sober Frame expect / Work of no Foreign Architect." For 10 points, name this poem describing the estate of Thomas Fairfax by Andrew Marvell.
"Upon Appleton House"   
9

125579-)
One of this author's characters sleeps on a bed made of watercress and the 2,000 teeth of the people she has killed. After being angered by a pastor's definition of "perfection" as "flawlessness," one of this author's characters writes a tale about a prince who searches in vain for a flawless wife. After having an affair with Fortunata in Barbados, one of this author's characters brings back the first pineapple to England. In that novel by her, an ecologist who burns down a factory causing mercury pollution is the reincarnation of a giantess called the (*) Dog Woman. This author had an affair with her literary agent, Pat Kavanagh, to whom she dedicated her novel The Passion. In a novel broken into chapters named after books of the Old Testament, a character named for this author is locked in a basement by her evangelical mother, after she begins a lesbian affair with Melanie. For 10 points, name this British author of Sexing the Cherry and Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit.
Jeannette Winterson
9

125620-)
In a poem by this writer, the refrain "Children dear, was it yesterday?" is repeated by the speaker, who calls, "Margaret! Margaret!" This poet wrote about a man who, "tired of knocking at preferment's door, roamed the world with that wild brotherhood," and lamented "this strange disease of modern life" in a poem inspired by a tale from Joseph Glanvill's The Vanity of Dogmatizing. This author of "The Forsaken Merman" coined the modern usage of the word "Philistine" in his major work of criticism. The speaker of another of his poems notes that "Sophocles long ago heard it on the Aegean" before exclaiming, "Ah, love, let us be true to one another!" For 10 points, name this author of "The Scholar Gipsy," Culture and Anarchy, and "Dover Beach."
Matthew Arnold
7

125672-)
In a novel by this author, a man opens his window at Penge and yells, "Come!" to the night. In the "Terminal Note" to that novel by this man, he claimed that "what the public really loathes" about a certain activity is "not the thing itself but having to think about it." The title character of one of his novels is instructed in sexual matters by Mr. Ducie, but later falls in love with Clive Durham and Alec Scudder. At the end of another of his novels, the sky says "not yet" to the question of interracial friendship, after a trial caused by Ronald Heaslop's fiancee. This author of Maurice wrote a novel in which Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of trying to rape her. For 10 points, name this British author of A Passage to India.
E. M. Forster [or Edward Morgan Forster] 
7

125679-)
This character has a recurring dream in which she walks through a forest being followed by someone whom she cannot see. This character loses three pennies after performing a somersault underwater, then also loses her dress to Tia. Incestuous overtones are presented when she lovingly remembers her last kiss with Cousin Sandi. This character requests the creation of an obeah love potion from Christophene. She has a brother named Richard whom she attacks with a knife when he visits and does not recognize her. That incident occurs while this character is kept in an attic under the watch of Grace Poole. For 10 points, name the protagonist of Jean Rhys's Wide Sargasso Sea, the first wife of Mr. Rochester who burns down Thornfield Hall in Jane Eyre.
Bertha Mason [or Bertha Mason; or Antoinette Cosway; or Antoinette Cosway]
7

125680-)
A character in this novel buys plaster statues of Venus and Apollo which she tells her landlady are statues of St. Peter and Mary Magdalene. In this novel, the protagonist and his wife separate shortly after he botches a pig-killing, and soon after separating, his wife leaves for Australia. When a boy's stepmother tells him she is going to have another child in this novel, the boy rebukes her and hangs himself and two siblings the next day. This novel's protagonist takes up masonry in order to live near the university in Christminster. In this novel, the schoolmaster Richard Phillotson loses his position after allowing his wife, Sue Bridehead, to leave him and live with the title character. For 10 points, name this final novel by Thomas Hardy.
Jude the Obscure
7

125691-)
In this play, a man claims that "almost all the wise world is little else but parasites." Another character in this play is forced to wear donkey ears and paraded around the city. Earlier in this play, that character orders his wife to perform all things backwards after she throws her handkerchief at a man who sells a panacea while dis- guised as a mountebank named Scoto. In this play, Peregrine is thought to be a courtesan in disguise by the talkative Lady Politic Would-Be. This play centers on the attempts by Voltore, Corvino, and Corbaccio to win the inheritance of the title character, who pretends to be on his deathbed and is served by Mosca. For 10 points, name this play about a "Sly Fox" by Ben Jonson.
Volpone
7

125705-)
While hiding in a tree, two characters created by this author watch a man dressed as a stag chop another person's finger off. In a novel by this author, a lame man is murdered and buried with a sprig of mistletoe by some workmen, allowing his wife Goody Pangall to pursue an affair with the master builder Roger Mason. In a novel by this author, Fa is swept down a waterfall on a log and Lok is unable to save a baby called the New One. This author wrote a novel about Dean Jocelin's renovation of a cathedral and a novel about a tribe of Neander- thals. In one of his novels, the corpse of a parachuter is mistaken for the Beast, and a conch shell and Piggy's glasses are symbols of order. For 10 points, name this author of The Spire, The Inheritors, and Lord of the Flies.
William Golding [or William Gerald Golding]
7

125727-)
This character's hair is very black on his chest, somewhat lighter on his head, and golden in the lower parts of his body. Hilda leaves cigarettes on the floor of this man's house, where he defends his switch between "proper" English and the Derby accent. At the end of the novel he appears in, this man writes that a part of his body named John Thomas says goodbye to Lady Jane. As he looks upon an estate at night, this man is noticed by Ivy Bolton, a woman who takes care of the owner of Wragby. This character is unable to divorce Bertha Coutts and is the father of a child claimed by Duncan Forbes. For 10 points, name this gamekeeper who, in a D. H. Lawrence novel, carries on an affair with Constance Chatterley.
Oliver Mellors [or Oliver Mellors; prompt on Lady Chatterley's lover
7

125765-)
A character in this novel hears that his enemy is getting married in a chapel and runs to kill that enemy's bride, only to find that he has killed his own daughter. In this novel, a herald announces the entrance of a knight whose name refers to an item that requires one hundred men to carry it. The Marquis of Vincenza breaks off an engagement after meeting a skeleton in peasant clothing in this novel, in which blood ominously falls from a statue's nose. At the end of this novel, Father Jerome is revealed to be the father of Theodore by the gigantic apparition of Prince Alonso the Great, whose helmet had fallen from the sky and killed Conrad. For 10 points, name this novel by Horace Walpole, often considered the first Gothic novel.
The Castle of Otranto
7

125772-)
A room in this story is described as smelling like licorice, a pun on the description of a woman's eye as "lik- erous." The opening of this story describes a "rich gnof" who dwells at Oxenford. In this story, a man beseeches St. Frideswide after becoming convinced that his lodger has gone mad studying astrology. The desperate cry of "Water!" prompts John to cut several ropes and tumble down in a bathtub at the end of this story. In this story, the duping of the church clerk is revenged after he procures a hot blade from the smith. This story is fol- lowed by a story told by Oswald the Reeve. In this story, Nicholas's bottom is branded after he farts in the face of Absolon. For 10 points, name this bawdy second Canterbury Tale.
"The Miller's Tale"
7

125779-)
This poem's speaker recalls his eye being "fixed with mock study on [his] swimming book." The speaker of this poem tells its addressee that he "shalt wander like a breeze by lakes and sandy shore, beneath the crags of ancient mountains, and beneath the clouds." This poem invokes a "great universal Teacher" who "shall mould thy spirit, and by giving make it ask." At the beginning of this poem, the speaker is startled by an owlet's re- peated cry as he watches his infant son Hartley sleep. This poem's title phenomenon "performs its secret min- istry, unhelped by any wind," and hangs up the eave-drops "in silent icicles." For 10 points, name this conversa- tion poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
"Frost at Midnight"
7

125794-)
An author with this first name compared the censorship of his poetry to Philomela's mutilation by Tereus in his dramatic work The Steel Glass. That poet with this first name probably wrote all the lewd "diverse discourses" contained in the miscellany A Hundreth Sundry Flowers, as well as a novel in which Elinor is seduced by Master F.J. A different author with this first name wrote the long poem Polyhymnia, which ends with a sonnet describing a knight's retirement called "A (*) Farewell To Arms." Another writer with this first name finished Christopher Marlowe's Hero and Leander and wrote a tragedy whose title character has an affair with Tamyra before being lured into an ambush by Montsurry and the Duke of Guise. This first name is shared by the playwright of Bussy D'Ambois and Elizabethan poets with the last names Peele and Gascoigne. For 10 points, identify this first name of an author whose translation of Homer was "looked into" by John Keats.
George
9

125821-)
This book's frontispiece depicts a man falling from a rock into the sea, but being caught by a hand extended from the heavens. Its author wishes that humanity could "procreate like trees" instead of having sex, and claims "men that look upon my outside...do err in my altitude, for I am above Atlas his shoulders." This book declares "though there be but one world to sense, there are two to reason; the one visible, the other invisible," though its author dismisses rational objections to miracles by agreeing with Tertullian's statement "it is certain because it is impossible." Divided into two sections, the first discussing faith and hope, and the second discussing Christian charity, it inspired a number of responses with similar titles, including a 1682 poem defending Anglicanism by (*) John Dryden. It was first published in 1643 by an author who went on to write the essay "Urn Burial." For 10 points, name this book with a Latin title in which Sir Thomas Browne outlines his spiritual beliefs.
Religio Medici
9

125848-)
This author called the moral of Gulliver's Travels "horrible, shameful, unmanly, blasphemous," in his oft-quoted lecture on Swift asking readers to abstain from the novel's ending, arguing, "giant and great as this Dean is, I say we should hoot him." This writer conducted an intimate correspondence with Jane Brookfield, on whom he modeled two of his heroines. During the last years of his life, he served as the first editor of The Cornhill Magazine. This author was attacked in a column by Edmund Yates that triggered the "Garrick Club affair," which resulted in a nearly lifelong rift in his friendship with (*) Dickens. He concluded one of his novels with the questions "Which of us is happy in the world? Which of us has his desire, or having it, is satisfied?" This author, who often used the pseudonym Michael Angelo Titmarsh, was catapulted to fame by the publication of a "Novel Without a Hero" following a conniving friend of Amelia Sedley. For 10 points, name this Victorian novelist who created Becky Sharp in Vanity Fair.
William Makepeace Thackeray
9

125873-)
In "Some Character Types Met With in Psychoanalytic Work," Freud admitted that he was unable to determine "what broke" this character, who had seemed "forged from the toughest metal." An essay named for this character attacks A.C. Bradley's style of criticism, which treated characters as real people rather than literary devices. That essay was written by L.C. Knights, and its title mockingly asks "How many children had [this character]?" This character observes "Tis safer to be that which we destroy / Than by destruction dwell in doubtful joy" before being told "We have (*) scorched the snake, not killed it." In this character's first scene, she exclaims "I feel now the future in the instant" after reading a letter, but fears that its author is "too full of the milk of human kindness / to catch the nearest way." In that scene, she asks "murdering ministers" to fill her breasts with gall and wishes to be "unsexed." For 10 points, name this Shakespeare character who cries "Out, damned spot!" during her sleepwalking scene.
Lady Macbeth [do not accept or prompt on "Macbeth"]
9

125882-)
This author described how "unbodied presences" reenact "the horrors of unhouseld crime" on a night when "the south-wind strengthens to a gale" in his poem "Low Barometer." Another of this author's poems observes that "the ravishing music that the small birds make" is "but a light disturbance of the atoms of air," and is divided into four sections, including ones named "Selfhood," "Breed," and "Ethick." He depicted boys playing with "crystal manna" after an overnight snowfall in his poem "London Snow," and argued that Paradise Lost was written in syllabic verse in (*) Milton's Prosody. This poet wrote a popular English translation of the hymn "Jesu, Joy of Man's Desiring," as well as a poem that declares "Man's Reason is in such deep insolvency to sense." He published a posthumous edition of poems of Gerard Manley Hopkins that established Hopkins's fame during his time as England's Poet Laureate from 1913 to 1930. For 10 points, name this doctor, the author of the long poem The Testament of Beauty.
Robert Seymour Bridges
9

125910-)
 sprawling, nearly 1200-page work in this genre depicts characters such as the mysterious libertine George Montague and the "Resurrection Man" Anthony Tidkins. Like Empedocles, the title character of another of these works throws himself into Mount Vesuvius because he is unable to handle the boredom of immortality after initially pursuing Flora Bannerworth. Many of them were published by Edward Lloyd and written by G. W. M. Reynolds. G. K. Chesterton wrote an essay in (*) defense of these works, which included The Mysteries of London and one which begins with Lieutenant Thornhill presenting the title jewels to Johanna Oakley. Mary Elizabeth Braddon started her literary career by writing them, and one of them, The String of Pearls, introduced the story of Sweeney Todd. For 10 points, identify these booklets, such as Varney the Vampire, that were wildly popular among young working-class British readers in the 19th century, and, as their name suggests, could be purchased for a very cheap price.
penny dreadfuls [or penny bloods; or penny awfuls; or penny horribles; prompt on "serialized novels" or anything about literature published in serials]
9

125931-)
An essay by this author explains why a certain location "cannot be caught in a net of words, for it is one of its qualities to be indescribable, though not imperceptible." In that essay, this author described the "sudden joyous 'turn'" of the happy endings provided by the title kind of literature as an example of "eucatastrophe." He included that essay, which was first presented as an Andrew Lang lecture in 1939, in his book Tree and Leaf. Another of this author's essays features an allegory about a man who builds a (*) tower from an accumulation of old stone, only for his friends to push it over to look for "hidden carvings and inscriptions." That essay rebuts the views of W. P. Ker, and divides its title poem into two major sections, the first about youth and the second about age. This author of "On Fairy Stories" also wrote a book describing the regions of Beleriand and Numenor. For 10 points, name this author who argued that Beowulf should be considered a poem, not a historical document, in The Monsters and the Critics, and developed a detailed fictional mythology in The Silmarillion.
John Ronald Reuel (J. R. R.) Tolkien
9

125961-)
Upon reaching the seashore, this character makes an allegorical complaint to Neptune, begging for a port in the "huge sea of sorrow, and tempestuous grief." This character has a dream about a flaming tempest which awakens a threatening crocodile before it is subdued by a statue of Isis, which then gives birth to a powerful lion. This character observes a set of tapestries depicting the love affairs of the Greek gods after passing through a wall of flames, and then finds a room heavily inscribed with the words "Be bold." Upon being invited into Castle Joyous, this character fends off the advances of Lady Malecasta. This character wields a powerful enchanted (*) spear, and defeats the wizard Busirane to save Amoret, the lover of Scudamore. This character falls in love with Artegal after seeing him in the magic mirror of Merlin, who claims the two will begin a genealogy leading to Queen Elizabeth. For 10 points, name this hero of Book III of The Faerie Queene, a chaste female knight.
Britomart [or Britomartis]
9

126005-)
The speaker of this poem asks "for what wears out the life of mortal men?" and answers that "repeated shocks" "exhaust the energy of strongest souls" and "numb the elastic powers." This poem contrasts the "days when wits were fresh and clear / and life ran gaily as the sparkling Thames" with the "strange disease of modern life," before warning "fly hence, our contact fear!" In its opening stanzas, its speaker urges a nearby shepherd to "no longer leave thy wistful flock unfed" and "ComeÂ… and again begin the quest!" The title character of this poem is compared to a (*) "Tyrian trader, from the sea" and is spotted in locations like "some lone homestead in the Cumner hills." The title character of this poem is described as having "forsook his friends" and "roam'd the world with that wild brotherhood" by the speaker, who reads about him in "Glanvil's book" while lying on the grass. For 10 points, name this poem about an itinerant student from Oxford, written by Matthew Arnold.
"The Scholar-Gipsy"
9

126036-)
The "radical insincerity" of a member of this group was criticized by George Eliot in the essay "Worldliness and Other-Worldliness." A "silken son of pleasure" named Lorenzo is the addressee of the last seven parts of a nine-part poem by a member of this group; that poem fictionalizes his wife's daughter and her husband Henry Temple as "Narcissa" and "Philander," and is sometimes published as "The Complaint." Another poem by a member of this group describes the title entity as a "dread thing" which causes men to "shiver when thou'rt nam'd." That (*) Robert Blair poem gave its name to this group of poets, whose most famous member contemplated a "Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood" and a "mute inglorious Milton" lying in a location where the "curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, name this group of poets which included "Night Thoughts" author Edward Young and Thomas Gray, who set an "elegy" in its namesake location.
the Graveyard poets/school/etc. [or the Churchyard poets; or the Boneyard poets]
9

126039-)
This thinker argued that the numinous, the moral ought, and the moral guardian are the three strands of all religious impulse, but the fourth strand of the "historical event" is unique to Christianity. This thinker's argument that naturalism is self-defeating led to a 1948 debate at the Oxford Socratic Club with G.E.M. Anscombe about his book, Miracles. He claimed that Christianity is the story of a rightful king arriving incognito in enemy-occupied territory to fight the devil in a lecture titled (*) "What Christians Believe". He borrowed from Vincentius of Lerins the concept of reducing Christianity to only those principles that were believed "always, everywhere, by everybody", and he adapted a term from Richard Baxter to describe that form of Christianity. The argument that Jesus was either a lunatic, a fiend, or the Son of God is this man's "trilemma", which he presented in a series of BBC radio broadcasts delivered during World War II. For 10 points, name this English Christian apologist of The Problem of Pain and Mere Christianity. 
C(live) S(taples) Lewis
9

126079-)
While looking at a beautiful insane girl, this character compares her appearance to a "picture without meaning." In a comic interlude, this character returns to Philadelphia to argue over an inheritance with the elderly, indistinguishable Hurlbird sisters. In a key scene, this character encounters his former acquaintance Mr. Bagshawe, who tells him that his wife cuckolded him with a painter named Jimmy. During the first section of the novel he appears in, he narrates an excursion to (*) Martin Luther's apartments at Marburg from the health spa of Nauheim. He ends up buying Branshaw Manor from Leonora and taking care of the near-catatonic Nancy Rufford. He declares "This is the saddest story I have ever heard" at the beginning of a novel about his wife Florence's affair with Edward Ashburnham. For 10 points, name this narrator of Ford Madox Ford's novel The Good Soldier.
John Dowell [accept either name] [do not accept or prompt on "The Good Soldier"]
9

126098-)
This character is told she speaks a sort of "Amazonian language" and is advised about mortgages and interest by Sir Robert Clayton. While disguised as a Quaker, this woman is almost undone when her daughter Susan discovers a Turkish dress that she had worn in an attempt to seduce the Prince. The mother of twelve children, almost all of whom are never mentioned after their births, she repeatedly ponders the question, "Why am I a Whore now?" In a celebrated passage, she calls "the very nature of the marriage contract...nothing but giving up liberty, estate, authority, and everything, to the man." Originally married to a jeweler, this character and her faithful servant (*) Amy travel between England, France, and Holland before she settles down with one of her many lovers, a Dutch merchant who had fathered one of her sons. For 10 points, name this "fortunate mistress," the title character of the anonymously-published last novel of Daniel Defoe.
Roxana: the Fortunate Mistress [or The Fortunate Mistress: Or, A History of the Life and Vast Variety of Fortunes of Mademoiselle de Beleau, Afterwards Called the Countess de Wintselsheim, in Germany, Being the Person known by the Name of the Lady Roxana, in the Time of King Charles II] [prompt on "the Fortunate Mistress" before mention] [accept Mademoiselle de Beleau or Countess de Wintselsheim]
9

126118-)
John Dennis published a pamphlet in defense of one of this author's characters as a reply to Richard Steele's Whig critiques. One of his verses ends with the lines "Chloris, at worst you'll in the end / But change your lover for a friend." This author of the love poems "The Forsaken Mistress" and "The Divided Heart" wrote numerous original "Songs" for his dramatic works, including "When Phyllis Watched her Harmless Sheep," which is sung by Aurelia and her lady-in-waiting Letitia in a play subtitled "Love in a Tub." That work, The (*) Comical Revenge, was followed by a play about Courtall's attempts to woo Gatty, She Would if She Could. The protagonist of his third and last play, published in 1676, was inspired by his friend, the Earl of Rochester, eventually marries Harriet Woodvill, and is named Dorimant.  For 10 points, name this Restoration dramatist who created the character of Sir Fopling Flutter in his The Man of Mode.
George Etherege
9

126140-)
In a later version of this play, some messages never get to Cambray due to the actions of a character who begins the story having forged and delivered a letter. That character hopes that his father may be a king since his mother was unchaste, and says that he will be like Jove to Semele while attempting to rape the heroine, who asks her confidant Arante to disguise her as a man. The dedicatory epistle of that version described this play as "a heap of jewels unstrung and unpolished." In this play's fourth act, a character calls his wife "thou changed and self-covered thing" after telling her (*) "wisdom and goodness to the vile seem vile; filths savour but themselves." Its final scene is set at a camp near Dover, where its title character dies of grief, exclaiming "Never, never, never, never, never!" During the Restoration, audiences preferred the version of this play written by Nahum Tate, who gave it a happy ending. 
King Lear [or The History of King Lear; or Nahum Tate's version of King Lear before "Nahum Tate"]
9

126163-)
While verbally "making love" to this character, a man snuggles next to her and entices her to fantasize that they are "the babes in the wood," although she later disgustedly rejects that fantasy at the end of Act 3. At the climax of Act 4, she completes a prospectus by writing "two infamous words" because she is too ashamed to speak them out loud. At the beginning of Act 1, we learn that this character has just graduated tied for third wrangler in the mathematics tripos at Cambridge. She moves to London in Act 4 to join Honoria Fraser after learning that she is the illegitimate daughter of Reverend Samuel (*) Gardner. In Act 3, this unsentimental character rejects the marriage proposal of Sir George Crofts, who shocks her by revealing that houses he owns in Brussels are still operating. For 10 points, name this young woman, the protagonist of a play by George Bernard Shaw in which she discovers that managing brothels is her mother's profession.
Vivie Warren [or Vivvums; or Miss Warren; prompt on "Warren"; prompt on "the daughter of Mrs. Warren"; do not accept "Mrs. Warren"]
9

126196-)
While listening to Lord Byron recite lines from this poem, Percy Shelley had a terrifying vision of a woman with eyes instead of nipples and ran screaming out of the room. This poem's final lines discuss a father who paradoxically expresses his love for his child "with words of unmeant bitterness." In this poem's second part, a Baron misinterprets his bard's cautionary dream of a bright green snake wrapped around a white dove because he is preoccupied with mending his childhood friendship with Roland de Vaux of Tryermaine. At the beginning of this poem, its main character, who is often called "the lovely lady," walks into the (*) woods at midnight to pray, where she meets a woman who claims she was seized and carried off by five warriors. In its first part, that woman takes off her clothes to reveal her disfigured body before lying in bed next to the main character and casting a spell on her. This unfinished poem takes place at the castle of Sir Leoline. For 10 points, name this poem whose title character encounters the lesbian vampire Geraldine, written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
"Christabel"
9

126221-)
This character has a loyal friend in Master Ripton Thompson, unlike his other friend Lord Mountfalcon, who schemes to pursue his wife Lucy Desborough whom he'd secretly married. Raised under "the System" by his harsh father Austin, FTP, name this man whose "ordeal" is written about by George Meredith.
Richard Feverel (prompt Feverel)
9

126264-)
In this work, the senior clerk Robert Cokeson discovers that William Falder has forged a check to help his love Ruth Honeywill, and he's defended by Lawyer Frome. FTP, name this play by John Galworthy, which mocks the prison system and the courts which supposedly uphold the title principle.
Justice
9

126326-)
He wrote about Sarah and Harry Kahn in Chicken Soup with Barley, part of his trilogy including I'm Talking About Jerusalem and a work featuring Beatie Bryant, who also appears in his 2005 novel Honey. FTP, name this British playwright of The Kitchen and Roots, who was once part of the Angry Young Men.
Arnold Wesker
9

126458-)
This work is based on a nonfiction book by Oliver Sacks. It features a doctor named Hornby formerly married to Pauline, who is the sister of Deborah, who has just awoken from a 29-year coma and thinks she's still sixteen. FTP, name this 1982 one-act play by Harold Pinter, with a title that references a certain U.S. state. 
A Kind of Alaska
9

126467-)
When this character is told "there is no such thing as abstract morality," he decides to live his life "with due regard to the policeman round the corner." This character receives a small Persian rug purported to explain the meaning of life. This admirer of Watts and Burne-Jones annoys Clutton and his friends from Amitrano's when he proclaims his preference for Ruskin. He loses most of his fortune in a bad investment with the Scottish Macalister and is forced to design clothes for the fashion company Lynn and Sedley. He is taken hop-picking by a man obsessed with El Greco and Spain named Thorpe Athelney, whose daughter Sally this character marries and takes to live at Doctor South's practice. This art student-turned-medical student, who grows up with the Vicar of Blackstable, is unable to curtail his passion for the waitress-turned-prostitute Mildred Rogers. For 10 points, name this club-footed protagonist of W. Somerset Maugham's Of Human Bondage.
Philip Carey [prompt on Carey]
8

126481-)
In Cultural Capital, John Guillory related this poem's "refunctioning of the commonplace book" to its subsequent linguistic capital as a means of inculcating literacy in schools. William Empson objected to the "complacence" of this poem's "bourgeois ideology," arguing that the "universality and impersonality" of its truisms "claim as if by comparison that we ought to accept the injustice of society." Assessing this poem, Samuel Johnson famously wrote, "Had [he] written o7ten thus, it had been vain to blame, and useless to praise him," concluding his "Life" of its author. In this poem, the speaker imagines himself being described as "drooping, woeful wan, like one forlorn, or crazed with care, or crossed in hopeless love." This poem asks, "Can Honour's voice provoke the silent dust?" and praises the "rude forefathers of the hamlet" whose "sober wishes never learned to stray" as they dwelt "far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife." For 10 points, name this influential elegy, the magnum opus of Thomas Gray.
"Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard"
8

126492-)
An essay by this author contrasts Titian's skin tones with Van Dyck's, arguing that the latter lack the title property, which is the "power or passion de ning any object." He claimed that the title sculptures disprove Joshua Reynolds's theory of the mutual exclusivity of grand design and exactness of detail in one of three essays he wrote about the exhibition of the Elgin Marbles. This author of "On Gusto" wrote an essay describing a match between butcher Bill Neate and Tom Hickman, known as the "Gas-man." He controversially described his seduction of his landlord's daughter, Sarah Walker, in a work subtitled "the New Pygmalion." This author of "The Fight" co-wrote The Round Table with Leigh Hunt, and included pro les of Walter Scott and Jeremy Bentham in his collection of character sketches of twenty- ve representative men of the early 19th century. For 10 points, name this English essayist, the author of Liber Amoris and The Spirit of the Age.
William Hazlitt
8

126523-)
When this character is asked, "Should dying men flatter with those that live?" he replies, "No, no, men living flatter those that die." This character remarks, "Light vanity, insatiate cormorant, consuming means, soon preys upon itself," in a speech he begins by declaring, "Methinks I am a prophet new inspired." This character warns, "Thy death-bed is no lesser than thy land wherein thou liest in reputation sick," as he addresses a ruler from his own deathbed. He describes a "fortress built by Nature for herself against infection and the hand of war," a "royal throne of kings" and "sceptered isle," in a speech eulogizing "this blessed plot, this earth, this realm, this England." This character dies in grief after his son is exiled by the corrupt king for feuding with Thomas Mowbray. For 10 points, name this historical fgure who appears as an elderly man in Richard II, the father of the usurper Henry Bolingbroke.
John of Gaunt [prompt on John]
8

126534-)
In The Old Curiosity Shop, Nell and her grandfather are taken in by a man of this profession named Mr. Marton. Another of them disguises himself as Rogue Riderhood to try to drown Eugene Wrayburn, his rival for the love of Lizzie Hexam. Bradley Headstone in Our Mutual Friend shares this profession with a man who remains convinced of the faithfulness of his much younger wife Annie, despite the insinuations of Uriah Heep. Another character with this profession is a one-eyed Yorkshire man who is beaten by his employee Nicholas Nickleby a7ter himself beating Smike. Another of them, who has children named Malthus and Adam Smith, realizes his extreme fact-based approach to this profession is 6lawed when his daughter Louisa confesses her unhappy marriage to Josiah Bounderby. For 10 points, name this profession shared by many Charles Dickens characters, including Dr. Strong from David Copper3eld, Wackford Squeers from Nicholas Nickleby, and Thomas Gradgrind from Hard Times.
schoolmaster [or schoolteacher; or headmaster; or schoolboard superintendant; or tutor; or educator; prompt on scholar]
8

126537-)
In this novel, a man is told, "We're widows...There's little can be hidden from us now," after a group of hags he refers to as "ladies" accost him for failing to do his duty as he rides his horse Horace. This novel's final chapter is narrated by a boatman who can only ferry one person at a time to a mysterious island. In this novel, memories of a kind red-haired woman and the disappearance of the girl Marta are among the "puzzling episodes" that trouble an old man. Towards the end of this novel, a warrior vows to raise a boy as an instrument of racial vengeance after earlier saving him from an ogre attack on a village. In this novel, Sir Gawain is sworn to protect the dragon Querig because the mist of forgetfulness that Querig produces allows the Saxons and Britons to live together. For 10 points, name this 2015 fantasy novel in which the elderly couple Axl and Beatrice search for their long-lost son, written by Kazuo Ishiguro.
The Buried Giant
8

126555-)
Sarah Brigham's 2016 revival of this play prefaces it with an hour-long monologue titled "Jinny." A character in this play acquiesces to being called "an old plant le7t over from the Edwardian wilderness" a7ter arriving to pick up his daughter. A prop in this play supposedly prompted Pamela Lane to exclaim, "Oh no! Not the ironing board." The protagonist of this play visits the mother of his friend Hugh in the hospital. This play contains a recurring motif involving two stu5fed animals symbolizing the central couple: a squirrel and a bear. This play's protagonist repeatedly blares on the trumpet from his room and berates the much kinder Welshman Cli5f. In this play, Helena Charles has a brief a5fair with the husband of her friend Alison, who su5fers a miscarriage before reconciling with that husband, Jimmy Porter. For 10 points, name this founding example of "kitchen sink realism," a play by "angry young man" John Osborne.
Look Back in Anger
8

126588-)
This writer concluded, "There we leave you in that blessed dependency, to hang upon him that hangs upon the cross," in a text that elaborates the meanings of the line "And unto God the Lord belong the issues of death." This writer defended propositions "That a Wise Man Is Known By Much Laughing" and "That Nature Is Our Worst Guide" in his early set of Paradoxes and Problems. In a work divided into 23 tripartite sections, each containing an "expostulation" and a "prayer," he wrote that "all mankind is of one Author, and one volume," with each chapter to be "translated into a better language." This man's delivery of "Death's Duel" prompted Izaak Walton to observe that he had "preached his own funeral sermon." He wrote that "every man's death diminishes me, because I am involved in mankind" in a passage asserting "no man is an island." For 10 points, name this Dean of St. Paul's whose Meditation XVII ("seventeen") advises "ask not for whom the bell tolls," and whose poetic works include the Holy Sonnets.
John Donne
8

126616-)
In this novel, a man hits on the protagonist at a concert a ter insisting that she translate the Italian lyrics of a song for him. The protagonist of this novel visits a poor, widowed school friend who now sells needlework through her nurse, since rheumatic fever has made her unable to walk. This novel opens by describing how a character never reads except to look at his own page in the Baronetage of England. In a pivotal scene in this novel, a woman hits her head on the pavement a ter jumping down some stairs at Lyme Regis Cobb. A ter  nancial troubles force her family to rent Kellynch Hall to the Cro ts, the protagonist of this novel goes to Bath with Lady Russell and her vain father Sir Walter. For 10 points, Captain Wentworth eventually marries Anne Elliot in what novel, the last written by Jane Austen?
Persuasion
8

126669-)
While considering a certain action, this character proclaims: "My thoughtÂ… shakes so my single state of man that function is smothered in surmise, and nothing is but what is not." This character's wife urges "spirits that tend to mortal thoughts" to "unsex me here" after describing a hoarse raven that croaks another character's "fatal entrance." This character compares life to a "poor player that struts and frets his hour upon a stage and then is heard no more," and describes it as "but a walking shadow." This character is told "what's done, is done"  as he copes with having murdered King Duncan. For 10 points, name this title character of Shakespeare's "Scottish Play."
Macbeth
6

126691-)
In one of this author's novels, an inept journalist is sent to document "a very promising little war" in the fictional state of Ishmaelia. This author drew on his time working for the Daily Mail to write that novel about William Boot. The protagonist of another novel by this author learns of his wife Brenda's infidelity with John Beaver, and travels to South America, where is he is forced to read Dickens novels aloud to Todd. This author of Scoop wrote about Tony Last in A Handful of Dust, and about a visit to Lord Marchmain in Venice in a novel narrated by Sebastian Flyte's friend, Charles Ryder, and titled for an opulent estate in Wiltshire. For 10 points, name this English author of Brideshead Revisited.
Evelyn Waugh [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh]
6

126696-)
In a novel by this author, the old widow Rosie reveals that her first and only love was the coal trader George Kemp, despite her earlier marriage to the novelist Edward Driffield. The prostitute Sadie Thompson provided the initial title for a story this author set in Pago-Pago. This author of Cakes and Ale and "Rain" wrote about Dirk Stroeve, a starving artist unable to destroy a nude painting of his wife created by the budding artist Charles Strickland. The clubfooted protagonist of another novel by this author marries Sally Athelny and is named Philip Carey. For 10 points, name this British author of The Moon and Sixpence and Of Human Bondage.
William Somerset Maugham
6

126720-)
This poet described an object caressed by a "desultory breeze" which produces "long sequacious notes" in a poem addressed to "my pensive Sara." In another poem by this writer, the speaker cradles his slumbering infant boy, and observes "silent icicles, quietly shining to the quiet moon" as the title substance "performs its secret ministry." One of this poet's speakers tells his story to the Wedding-Guest. This poet's "conversation poems" include "The Aeolian Harp" and "Frost at Midnight." An albatross is shot and the speaker observes there is "water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink" in a poem by this writer. For 10 points, name this poet of "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner."
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
6

126744-)
A cruel schoolteacher orders this character to stand on a stool as punishment for accidentally dropping and breaking a slate. A bolt of lightning splits a chestnut tree in half the day after this character receives a marriage proposal from beneath the same tree. This character refuses the marriage requests of her devout missionary cousin St. John Rivers. An outbreak of typhus kills this character's friend from the Lowood school, Helen Burns. This governess at Thornfield Hall marries her employer after his crazed first wife, Bertha Mason, dies in a fire. For 10 points, name this eventual wife of Mr. Rochester, the title character of a Charlotte BrontÃ« novel. 
Jane Eyre [accept either underlined name]
6

126778-)
In a poem by this writer, the speaker observes a personification of Murder feeding his bloodhounds human hearts. That poem's title subject "wore a kingly crown," and bore a mark that read "I AM GOD, AND KING, AND LAW!" This poet edged out Horace Smith in a competition with a submission that tells of a "hand that mocked" and a "heart that fed." This poet titled his response to the Peterloo massacre "The Masque of Anarchy," and wrote about "the breath of Autumn's being" in a poem that asks: "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" For 10 points, name this poet of "Ode to the West Wind," who exhorted: "Look on my Works, ye Mighty, and despair!" in "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
6

126794-)
One of this poet's speakers recalls his mother telling him that his "sun-burnt face is but a cloud, and like a shady grove." In another poem by this writer, the speaker awakens to find his "foe outstretched beneath the [title object]", and claims that his wrath "grew both day and night / till it bore an apple bright."This author of "The Little Black Boy" and "The Poison Tree" asked one of his title subjects, "Dost thou know who made thee?" and wrote another poem about an animal with "dread hand" and "dread feet" "burning bright in the forests of the night." For 10 points, name this poet, whose Songs of Innocence and Experience contain "The Lamb" and "The Tyger."
William Blake
6

126796-)
This writer described a battle that "closes deep and bloody" as the shouts of war are "heard afar" in a poem whose title inspired another author's play about the soldier Harry Heegan. This poet wrote "The Silver Tassie" and a poem about an inebriated farmer's escape from a group of witches to Alloway Kirk. The speaker of a poem by this author regrets that "man's dominion has broken Nature's social union" after accidentally ploughing through the lands of a "tim'rous beastie." Another poem by this writer of "Tam O'Shanter" mentions "gowans fine" and "a right gude-willie waught." For 10 points, name this Scottish author of the poems "To a Mouse" and "Auld Lang Syne."
Robert Burns
6

126805-)
Analyzing this poem prompts Nell to eventually break up with her boyfriend Bill in a short story by Margaret Atwood. In this poem, a compliment from one character produces a "spot of joy" on the cheek of the title character, who ignores the speaker's gift of a "nine-hundred-years-old name." This poem ends by ominously praising Claus of Innsbruck's cast of a statue of Neptune taming a seahorse. This poem's speaker describes the title character as having "a heart too soon made glad" after revealing a portrait of the title character painted by Fra Pandolf. For 10 points, name this dramatic monologue titled for the Duke of Ferrara's late wife, written by Robert Browning. 
"My Last Duchess"
6

126840-)
The theft of a pie in this novel earns the protagonist an encounter with a beating cane nicknamed The Tickler. The original ending to this novel was revised in the first edition to include the death of Bentley Drummle by horse-kick to the head. In this novel, the journeyman Orlick assaults Mrs. Joe while under the employ of the blacksmith Joe Gargery. In this novel, Satis House is kept unchanged by the spinster Miss Havisham,  and the convict Abel Magwitch gains a fortune as a sheep herder, allowing him to sponsor a young orphan who longs for beautiful Estella. For 10 points, name this novel about the promised fortune of Pip, written by Charles Dickens.
Great Expectations
6

126843-)
The protagonist of one work by this author writes the Revolutionist's Handbook, which goes unread by Roebuck Ramsden. A section of that play by this author depicts John Tanner's ancestor debating the devil in the presence of a statue of Don Gonzalo and a character representing Anne Whitefield and is titled "Don Juan in Hell". A protagonist of another play by this author is mistaken for a policeman when he is taking notes in Covent Garden. In that play by this author, Henry Higgins bets that he can make the cockney girl Eliza Doolittle speak like a duchess. For 10 points, name this British playwright of Man and Superman and Pygmalion.
George Bernard Shaw
6

126844-)
In one piece, this author asserted that the word "fascism" merely signifies "something not desirable." In another essay, this author argued that the period between 1850 and 1925 was the "great period" of a profession practiced by Jack the Ripper. This author included "Achilles' heel" and  "hammer and the anvil" among a list of "Dying Metaphors" after citing five examples of prose that exhibit staleness and lack precision. This author of "Decline of the English Murder" wrote about the torture of Julia's lover in Room 101 in a novel set in an Oceania overseen by Big Brother. For 10 points, name this author of "Politics and the English Language" and 1984. 
George Orwell
6

126865-)
In one poem, this author described the souls of two lovers enduring "not yet a breach, but an expansion, like gold to airy thinness beat." In another poem by this author, a pair of lovers are "cloistered in these living walls of jet." The lines "Thy firmness makes my circle just, and makes me end where I begin" conclude this poet's analogy of a pair of lovers to the feet of a compass. This poet asked: "hast thou since purpled thy nail?" in a poem describing a creature that "sucked me first, and now sucks thee," and contains the speaker and his lover's "mingled blood." For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet who wrote "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" and "The Flea."
John Donne
6

126901-)
This character has a fever dream in which a man comes down from the skies and attacks him with a spear, spurring him to finally repent for foolishly not listening to his father's advice. A literary genre named after this character is exemplified by R. M. Ballantyne's most famous novel; that genre's name ends with the suffix "ade." A novel about this character was so popular that its author wrote a sequel about his "farther adventures" the very same year. Along with Xury, he escapes from captivity in Africa and is then rescued by a Portuguese captain. This character, who was based on a real-life person named Alexander Selkirk, sees a footprint in the sand belonging to a person he names Friday. For 10 points, name this castaway created by Daniel Defoe.
Robinson Crusoe [or Robinson Crusoe; or Robinson Kreutznaer]
6

126922-)
A poem by this author compares its subject to "three-fork'd lightning" breaking through the clouds. That poem's opening couplet declares "the forward youth that would appear must now forsake his Muses dear." One of this poet's speakers tells the addressee that it would take two hundred years to adore each of her breasts and thirty thousand years for the rest of her body, so that his "vegetable love should grow vaster than empire and more slow." This author of "An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland" created a speaker who worries about "time's winged chariot hurrying near" and tells the addressee that her shyness wouldn't be a problem "had we but world enough and time."  For 10 points, name this author of "To His Coy Mistress."
Andrew Marvell
6

126941-)
A retired butcher created by this author constantly speaks ill of his deceased wife Jessie, and abuses his taxi driver brother Sam. This playwright's works were described by Irving Wardle as "comedies of menace." One play by this author treats Emma and Jerry's affair in reverse chronology, while in another, Ruth refuses to return to the United States with her husband Teddy. Argument over the semantics of the phrase "put on the kettle" versus "light the kettle" occurs in another play this author, which ends with the implication that Ben is to shoot his fellow hitman Gus. For 10 points, name this British author of Betrayal, The Homecoming and The Dumb Waiter. 
Harold Pinter
6

126954-)
One of this poet's speakers defines "lust in action" as "the expense of spirit in a waste of shame." A poem by this author insists that not even "war's quick fire shall burn the living record" of the addressee, whom the speaker immortalized in a "powerful rhyme" that will outlive "the gilded monuments of princes." This poet compared a lover's hair to "black wire" in an unflattering poem that opens: "My mistress' eyes are nothing like the sun." This poet answered the title question of one of his poems by quipping: "Thou art more lovely and more temperate." For 10 points, name this Elizabethan author, whose eighteenth sonnet opens: "Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?"
William Shakespeare
6

126984-)
This novel's protagonist repeats to himself William Camden's rhyme "Betwixt the stirrup and the ground, mercy I asked, mercy I found." When its protagonist visits his lawyer Prewitt, Prewitt quotes a line from Doctor Faustus about how "this is Hell, nor are we out of it." The title of this novel is used as a metaphor for human nature when a character says that it won't change even if you "bite it all the way down." This novel describes a variant of the newspaper competition "Lobby Lud," in which readers have to spot a person named "Kolley Kibber." This novel's villain marries Rose, and its protagonist, Ida Arnold, tries to save Rose from him and get justice for Fred Hale. This novel's villain is the teenage gang leader Pinkie Brown. For 10 points, name this Graham Greene novel set in a seaside resort town in England.
Brighton Rock
8

127004-)
This collection includes a dialogue-poem that ends when a man interrupts an eight-line stanza with the exclamation "Ah, no more," and provides the  nal line. The speaker of another poem in this collection says, "within my heart I made closets, and in them many a chest...in those chests, boxes; in each box a till. Yet Grief knows all, and enters when he will." In another poem in this book, the speaker recalls how his "soul lay out of sight, untuned, unstrung," and asks the addressee to "cheer and tune my heartless breast." This collection includes a sonnet composed entirely of stacked appositive phrases such as "the soul in paraphrase," "the six-days'-world reposing in an hour," and "something understood." This book concludes with the line "So I did sit and eat" a ter that poem's title personi cation welcomes a soul "guilty of dust and sin." Two poems entitled "Prayer" and three entitled "Love" appear in this book of devotional verse. For 10 points, name this book, the major work of George Herbert.
The Temple
8

127063-)
This character examines watercolors of a sinking ship in a storm with a cormorant on its mast, a woman personifying the Evening Star, and a pale giant resting against an iceberg, before asking the artist whether she was happy when she painted them. This man hails his beloved from a stone stile in the field and draws his usual comparison between her and an elf as he reprimands her for a month's absence. He worries he will take to "bleeding inwardly" if the channel between England and Ireland breaks the string connecting his heart to his beloved's before proposing to her by the horse-chestnut in his orchard. In a supernatural occurrence, this man's voice calling across the fields causes his lover to reject the final proposal of her missionary cousin and seek this man out, only to find that he has been crippled and blinded in a fire set by his mad attic-bound wife. For 10 points, name this owner of Thornfield Hall who marries Jane Eyre.
Mr. Rochester [or Edward Fairfax Rochester; or Fairfax Rochester]
8

127111-)
David Wilbern wrote a psychoanalytic essay on Shakespeare's usage of this word 3ttingly entitled "Shakespeare's [this word]." A7ter insisting that Hermione and Polixenes "wish...all eyes blind with the pin and web but theirs," Leontes uses this word eight times in 3ve lines in a frantic speech to Camillo. Gloucester tells Edmund that "the quality of [this word] hath not much need to hide itself" as he demands he hand over the forged letter implicating Edgar in conspiracy. Before the performance of The Murder of Gonzago, Hamlet puns on Ophelia's remark that she "thinks [this word]," calling it "a fair thought to lie between maids' legs." When asked what she can say to top her sisters' praises, Cordelia responds with this word, prompting Lear to say, "[this word] will come of [this word]. Speak again." For 10 points, name this concept that, according to the title of a play featuring Beatrice and Benedick, is the subject of "much ado."
nothing
8

127134-)
This poem describes a person who will "fit his tongue to dialogues of business, love, or strife...as if his whole vocation were endless imitation." Harold Bloom argued that this poem set the template for the "crisis-lyric" followed by poets as diverse as Whitman, Dickinson, and Stevens. The most dramatic turn in this poem occurs after the speaker predicts a time when "custom [will] lie upon thee with a weight, heavy as frost, and deep almost as life!" Uncharacteristically for its author, this poem uses a Platonic metaphor in the stanza beginning "Our birth is but a sleep and a forgetting." The first four stanzas of this poem, which ask "Whither is fled the visionary gleam?", prompted a response from Coleridge in "Dejection: An Ode." This poem concludes, "to me the meanest flower that blows can give thoughts that do o ten lie too deep for tears." For 10 points, name this irregular Pindaric ode by William Wordsworth.
"Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood" [or the Intimations Ode; or the Immortality Ode; or the Great Ode]
8

127151-)
Margaret Ezell challenged the historical assumptions perpetuated by this character's story in her essay on "The Myth of [this character]." Recounting how a "fat, loose-lipped man" gu fawed at this woman and "bellowed something about poodles dancing," the narrator states, "He hintedÂ—you can imagine what." She is buried at a crossroads where omnibuses stop outside the Elephant and Castle. This character's creator speculates that if we "look past Milton's bogey" and recognize "that our relation is to the world of reality and not only to the world of men and women," then this character "will put on the body which she has so o ten laid down" and be born. She commits suicide a ter becoming pregnant by the actor-manager Nick Greene, whom she meets in London a ter  leeing her home to pursue a career in theatre like her brother. For 10 points, name this hypothetical woman created by Virginia Woolf in A Room of One's Own, the sister of the author of Hamlet.
Judith Shakespeare [or Shakespeare's sister before "sister" is read; prompt on Shakespeare]
8

127166-)
In Ben Jonson's The Entertainment at Althorp, a satyr named Vere mocks this character, who is supposedly a stand-in for Elizabeth I. In Sense and Sensibility, Willoughby promises to give Marianne a horse with this name. An author lost custody of his children to Lord Eldon after publishing an atheistic poem dedicated to Harriet Westbrook and titled for this character. In another work, this character is said to have a "team of little atomies," to bake "the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs," and to plait "the manes of horses in the night." This character names a nine-part poem which was the first published work of Percy Bysshe Shelley. She is said to gallop over lawyers' fingers, causing them to dream of fees, even though she comes "in shape no bigger than an agate-stone." A speech about this character convinces the protagonist of a play to forget Rosaline and attend a dinner party. For 10 points, name this "fairies' midwife," the subject of a speech that Mercutio gives Romeo.
Queen Mab
8

127198-)
In a novel by this author, a tennis match gets so heated that one of the players starts savagely beating the other's face with a racket. A character created by this author concludes that a mysterious man with a vast retinue of followers must be Peter the Great on his embassy to Europe. At a sheep-fair, two characters interrogate this author about a letter he published in Blackwood's Magazine describing two shepherds exhuming the corpse of a suicide victim. The prostitute Arabella Calvert witnesses a duel in a novel by this author that leads to son of theLaird of Dalcastle getting stabbed in the back. The second section of that novel by this man is narrated by the title character, who is convinced by his father that he is part of the Calvinist "elect" and is forced into committing a series of bizarre murders by the devil-doppelganger Gil- Martin. For 10 points, name this Scottish author of a psychological novel about the crimes of Robert Wringhim called The Private Memoirs and Confessions of a Justified Sinner.
James  Hogg
8

127228-)
This author examined his own fear of death in the wake of the passing of his parents Albert and Kathleen in the memoir Nothing to be Frightened Of. A novel by this man contains an oft- analyzed scene in which a woman frying eggs breaks one of the yolks, then throws the broken egg away. The narrator of one of this man's novels attempts to understand the equations "b equals s minus v x plus a one" and "a two plus v plus a one times s equals b", found in a friend's diary. Another of this man's novels includes a first-person chapter titled "Louise Colet's Version". Tony Webster realizes that his friend Adrian killed himself after impregnating his girlfriend Veronica's mother Sarah in one novel by this man, while in another, GeoffreyBraithwaite searches for the item that sat on a desk during the writing of "Un Coeur Simple". For10 points, name this British author of the Booker-winning The Sense of an Ending and Flaubert'sParrot.
Julian  Barnes [or Julian Patrick Barnes]
8

127240-)
A character created by this author threatens to "write Whore / with this penknife in your face" while forcing his wife to write a letter. This man's first play is set largely in St. James's Park and ends its first act with a song sung by Lady Flippant that earned this author the patronage of the Duchess of Cleveland. In another of his plays, the merchant James Formal'sobsession with Spanish customs allows Gerrard to seduce his daughter Hippolita while posing as the title instructor. A jilting at the hands of Olivia, who instead marries Vernish, fuels the misanthropy of Captain Manly in a play by this author, whose most famous play includes a scene where Ladies Fidget and Squeamish use double entendres that slyly refer to sex with the word "china." That play by this man centers on Horner, who feigns impotence in a ploy to have sex with married women. For 10 points, name this Restoration dramatist of Love in a Wood, The Gentleman Dancing-Master, The Plain Dealer, and The Country Wife.
William  Wycherley
8

127283-)
A character remembers how his friendship with this different character suddenly ceased after this man pointed at a hen and her chicks and said, "prettyÂ–pretty". This man angers two of his children by remarking "but I beneath a rougher sea / was whelmed in deeper gulfs than he", a quote from William Cowper's poem "The Castaway". One person describes this man's work using the metaphor of "thinking of a kitchen table, when you're not there". In the beginning ofthe novel, a boy cutting out pictures from an Army and Navy catalogue suddenly gets the urge to kill this man. This man laments his inability to mentally get past the letter Q to the letter R and often declaims lines from "The Charge of the Light Brigade". This man's children Andrew and Prue die during the section "Time Passes", while in the final section he finally takes Cam and James on the novel's title trip. For 10 points, name this parental figure from Virginia Woolf's novel To the Lighthouse.
Mr. Ramsay [accept answers including the name  Ramsay and words like father or husband or adult man; prompt on "Ramsay"; before "To the Lighthouse" is read, prompt on answers like "the father from  To the Lighthouse" and after prompting on that accept Mr. Ramsay]
8

127303-)
In a late novel by this author, Jack Shearwater engages in a menage a trois with his wife Franca and mistress Alison, while, Alfred Ludens seeks out his former teacher Marcus Vallar to heal his friend Patrick Fenman. This author of The Message to the Planet wrote a novel in which Toby Gashe discovers the title object at the bottom of a lake, while the prospective nunCatherine Fawley is driven mad by her love for the schoolmaster Michael Meade, the owner of Imber Court. The protagonist of her first novel plots to kidnap the movie star dog Mr. Mars and adapts his conversations with Hugo Belfounder into the book The Silencer. Charles Arrowby retires to a cottage where he encounters his former love Mary Hartley Fitch in another novel by this author. For 10 points, name this Irish-English author of The Bell, Under the Net, and The Sea, The Sea.
Iris  Murdoch [or Dame Jean Iris  Murdoch]
8

127334-)
In an episode from this novel, a character dressed in a Hawaiian costume reads aloud article about a party thrown at No. 10 Downing Street the previous night before realizing that she is addressing the Prime Minister's family at breakfast. This novel ends with the central character drinking champagne in the middle of a battlefield with Chastity, a former member of a troupe of angels led by Mrs. Ape, and a ";Drunken Major"; whom he had once given a thousand pounds to bet on the horse Indian Runner. This novel's central character invents fictional socialites such as Imogen Quest, all of whom wear bottle-green bowler hats. After drunkenly crashing a racecar, Agatha Runcible is placed in a nursing home in this novel, whose central character loses his job as ";Mr. Chatterbox"; to Miles Malpractice. Nina Blount decides to marry Ginger Littlejohn instead of Adam Fenwick-Symes in, for 10 points, what novel by Evelyn Waugh?
Vile Bodies
8

127347-)
Characters in this novel include a crippled girl who works as a dressmaker for dolls and a peg-legged man who is employed to read aloud several biographies of misers, as well as The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire. Another character in this novel dismisses any idea he does not like with a flourish of his right hand, part of a way of life referred to as "Podsnappery". A climactic scene in this novel is set at the Plashwater Weir Mill Lock and ends with the death of both Rogue Riderhood and Bradley Headstone, the latter of whom had earlier failed to prevent Eugene Wrayburn from marrying Lizzie Hexam. This novel's main character adopts the name Julius Rokesmith and woos Bella Wilfer while working for Mr. Boffin, who is blackmailed by Silas Wegg but finds a secret will in a giant rubbish heap. For 10 points, name this novel that begins with the retrieval of a drowned corpse thought to be that of John Harmon, the final completed novel by Charles Dickens.
Our Mutual Friend
8

127366-)
In a comedy by this author, the daughter and niece of Dr. Balliardo employ a harlequin and a valet to convince him that their lovers are alien visitors. Cloris is distressed to find "beneath the verdant leaves a snake" which prompts her to flee "like lightning through the grove" in a poem by this author in which Lisander curses "his birth, his fate, his stars" after finding himself unable to achieve erection. This author of "The Emperor of the Moon" wrote a play in which the revenge-seeking courtesan Angellica Bianca disrupts the budding romance between Hellena and Captain Willmore. This author of "The Disappointment" also created a character from Coromantien who kills his lover Imoinda after being enslaved and taken to Suriname. Women are urged to drop flowers on this author's tomb because "it was she who earned them the right to speak their minds" in Virginia Woolf's "A Room of One's Own." For 10 points, name this English spy who wrote The Rover and Oroonoko.
Aphra Behn
8

127387-)
Many references to this character were changed after his creator sold his house to James and Eliza Davis. This character claims that the worst thing about women is that "a very little thing serves to call up some long-forgotten feeling," but that the best thing "is that it never lasts!" He reveals that some papers are hidden in a chimney in the penultimate chapter of the novel, which is titled for his "last night alive." This character sends Noah Claypole to spy on a woman who meets with Rose Maylie. He often admonishes others to not "peach" on him, and was likely inspired by the real-life Ikey Solomon. This character works with Monks to bring about Nancy's death, and he beats the Artful Dodger when he fails to bring another character back from a robbery. For 10 points, name this Jewish leader of a gang of street urchins who attempts to corrupt Oliver Twist.
Fagin
8

127396-)
In his final appearance, this character's wife is given a sapphire, while this man is made a chevalier for giving a carriage to a man who appears to be a lunatic. In another appearance, this character frequents the "Long Rooms" and earns a living playing whist. This character's two children, Maria and a namesake son, die of smallpox at the conclusion of a novel in which he takes three Sinhalese pearl fishers to Marmarice Bay. Before he recaptures a cutter named Witch of Endor in Flying Colours, this character and his coxswain Brown escape from a false trial and stay at the chateau of the Comte de Gracay. This man develops affection for Lady Barbara in the first novel to feature him, The Happy Return, in which he sinks the Natividad while captaining the HMS Lydia. Admiral Nelson inspired, for 10 points, what British naval officer created by C. S. Forester?
Horatio Hornblower [accept either underlined answer]
8

127402-)
This author once recalled seeing a squalid old woman resembling an ape in a sedan that he dubbed a "Duchess of Dunghill". He wrote about seeing into a "core of an eternal fierce destruction" in a verse epistle to Joshua Hamilton Reynolds concerning "a mysterious tale" of which he "cannot speak." One of this author's epistles describes a room which causes its occupants to be "intoxicated with the light and the atmosphere" as the "Chamber of Maiden Thought". After viewing Benjamin West's Death on the Pale Horse with Charles Dilke, this poet asserted that William Shakespeare was content with "being in uncertainties, Mysteries, anddoubts without any irritable reaching after fact and reason". For 10 points, name this poet who discussed the concepts of the "Mansion of Many Apartments" and "negative capability" in letters that also concern his poems "Ode on Melancholy," "Ode to Psyche," and Endymion.
John Keats
8

127422-)
After a mysterious letter prompts this novel's narrator to visit a summerhouse at night, he uses a tea table to fend of an attack by Bersonin, de Gautet, and Detchard. Near the end of this novel, the main character leads an attack by sneaking into a castle using a pipe that this novel's characters have called Jacob's Ladder. At the opening of this novel, Rose Burledon persuades the narrator to accompany Sir Jacob Borradaile on a diplomatic mission, leading to a journeythrough the title town. This novel's narrator stops in a forest where two soldiers, Colonel Sapt and Fritz von Tarlenheim, notice his resemblance to a man about to be crowned king. In this novel, Rudolf Rassendyll foils the machinations of "Black Michael" and Count Rupert of Hentzau, who have imprisoned the title character. For 10 points, name this first novel of its author to be set in Ruritania, a "romance" by Anthony Hope.
The Prisoner of Zenda
8

127429-)
In one of this author's stories, a castle made of glass, a glass beehive, and a tree of life made of glass are used by the "desert prince" Sasan to woo the "Arctic princess" Fiammarosa. Philip Warren enters the "Purchase House" and becomes the apprentice to the eccentric potter Benedict Fludd in a novel by this writer. This author included "Cold" and other "stories of ice and fire" in her collection Elementals. This author created the character Leonora Stern, a lesbian scholarfrom Tallahassee who tries to seduce a woman by smothering her. A 2009 novel by this author about the Wellwood family is titled The Children's Book. In another of her books, the burgeoning romance between the scholars Roland Michell and Maud Bailey parallels the the historical relationship between the poets Christabel LaMotte and Randolph Henry Ash. For 10 points, name this author of Possession.
Antonia Susan  Byatt [or A. S.  Duffy]
8

127443-)
A comic scene in this novel depicts a battle in a church graveyard in which a girl defeats a jealous mob by throwing skulls and swinging a human thighbone. The main character of this novel is accosted by the novice highwayman Mr. Anderson, but is so moved by his tale of poverty that he gives him two guineas. This novel's heroine runs away from home after her father, a drunken boor obsessed with hunting, locks her in her room to force her to marry a man she detests. Near this novel's end, its main character encourages Mr. Nightingale to marry Mrs. Miller's daughter Nancy before stabbing Mr. Fitzpatrick in a duel. Its title character travels toLondon with his servant Partridge to look for a woman staying with Lady Bellaston. That woman forgives the title character for sleeping with Molly Seagrim and Mrs. Waters, and marries him instead of the duplicitous Blifil. For 10 points, name this novel about a ";foundling"; who marries Sophia Western, written by Henry Fielding.
The History of  Tom Jones, a Foundling
8

127475-)
In the prefatory chapter of this work, its author states he hopes to build a "dream-palace" for the national thoughts of 20 million people since "All men dream: but not equally." After its author lost the original manuscript of this book while changing trains at Reading Station, he rewrote it mostly from memory. This text's introductory poem, which was edited by Robert Graves, is dedicated to an unknown person whose initials are "S. A." This book was written by an author whose only other work, The Mint, describes the Royal Airforce as a coin factory. Its sixth book, "The Raid Upon the Bridges," describes a failed attempt at cutting the Yarmuk Valley Railway. This book's author describes serving under General Allenby, and coordinating the irregular armies of Emir Feisal and Abdullah. The capture of Damascus during the Arab Revolt is depicted in, for 10 points, what autobiographical book by T. E. Lawrence?
Seven Pillars of Wisdom
8

127492-)
A poem attributed to this author states "Pull up thy heart, suppress thy brackish tears" since "The less afraid, the better thou shalt speed" and mockingly tells its subject "It passeth fickle Fortune's power and skill / to force my heart to think thee any ill." This writer translated a fragment of Boethius's The Consolation of Philosophy in "All human kind on earth," which asks "What crake you of your stock or forefathers old?" A short poem by this author that states "Much suspected by me, / Nothing proved can be" was etched into a window at Woodstock with a diamond. This person, who may have written "Ah Silly Pug, Wert Thou So Afraid" to a lover, is the model for both Lucifera of the Court of Pride and the virginal Belphoebe. She also inspired the title character of a poem that traces her "elfin lineage"; the court of that character inspired by this person contains Guyon, Redcrosse, and other knights. For 10 points, name this woman who served as the inspiration for Gloriana, the title character of The Faerie Queene.
Elizabeth I [or Good Queen Bess or  Elizabeth Tudor; prompt on Elizabeth]
8

127510-)
Charles Lamb stated that the murder scene in this play "aroused pity and terror beyond any scene ancient or modern." In the 25th scene of the play, its main character states that he has been unable to sleep for ten days due to one playing "continually upon a drum," and that his guards Maltrevers and Gurney have been tormenting him. In that scene of this play, the executioner Lightborn taunts the title character moments before killing him. Bertolt Brecht and Lion Feuchtwanger collaborated on an adaptation of this play, which opens with the title character's lover reading a letter stating "share the kingdom with thy dearest friend." After the Queen in this play rescinds an exile to Ireland, the Earls Lancaster and Warwick are executed by the title character, for killing his beloved Piers Gaveston. Isabella of France is imprisoned at the end of, for 10 points, what history play by Christopher Marlowe?
Edward II [or The Troublesome Reign and Lamentable Death of  Edward the Second, King of England, with the Tragical Fall of Proud Mortimer]
8

127535-)
This poem compares the "smoothness" of a woman to "goodly champaign plain," and asserts that women are weak since "men have marble, women waxen, minds." The main male character of this poem is neither buffeted by the smoke of a torch nor "the needle his finger pricks" when he picks up the title character's glove. Its title character states "Time's glory is to calm contending kings / To unmask falsehood and bring truth to light" after the title action, whichcauses her to tear "senseless Sinon with her nails" while destroying a painting of Trojan warriors. Its title character clads herself in "mourning black" and kills herself after telling her husband Collatinus to avenge her honor. This poem is dedicated to the Earl of Southampton and is based on the Fasti of Ovid, who also provided the source material to its author's Venus and Adonis. For10 points, name this narrative poem recounting Tarquin's downfall, written by WilliamShakespeare.
The Rape of Lucrece
8

127553-)
Keith Hollingsworth's book about the literature of this place notes that the first of the Bon Gaultier papers contained a series of parody poems by Theodore Martin including ";The Fakers' New Toast"; entitled ";Flowers of Hemp"; or the ";Garland"; of this place. At the end of an essay titled partly for this place, a man is reminded of his childhood schoolbook by the ";torn and soiled"; Bible he is handed and is haunted by the tolling of a bell that signifies seven, then six remaining hours. William Harrison Ainsworth's Jack Sheppard and Edward Bulwer-Lytton's Eugene Aram are among the many novels based on stories from the ";Calendar"; named for this place. It's likely that most of Le Morte d'Arthur was written while Thomas Malory was in this place, a ";visit to"; which was described in a Charles Dickens essay. A character is reunited with her ";Lancashire husband"; Jemmy after returning to this place; that character's mother escaped this place by ";pleading her belly";. For 10 points, name this birthplace of Moll Flanders, a notorious London prison.
Newgate Prison/Gaol [prompt on "prison" or equivalents; prompt on "the Old Bailey"; prompt on "London" until it is read]
8

127570-)
A character in this play compares himself to "scorpions ringed with fire," who are left to "strike ourselves to death." In Act IV, a woman in this play gives a "bag of coin" and a "rich mantle" to a man who was "only awed by that which made [her] tremble." Its protagonist marks the "twenty-seventh of December" as a feast day, since it is the day on which his son Rocco was accidentally killed when he was crushed by a mummy, and his other son Cristofano was murdered by a jealous lover. A portrait supposedly by Guido Reni inspired this play, which is set during the pontificate of Pope Clement VIII. Before being admitted into a mental asylum, Antonin Artaud staged a surrealistic version of this English play, which depicts Beatrice conspiring to have her sadistic father Francesco murdered. For 10 points, identify this tragedy by Percy Shelley, which is named for an Italian family.
The Cenci, A Tragedy, in Five Acts
8

128233-)
An adaptation of this play by Colley Cibber includes the line "Off with his head; so much for Buckingham." One character in this play insults another by calling her a "elvish-marked, abortive, rooting hog;" that character later teaches the mother of this play's protagonist to curse him. This play's protagonist is visited by a series of ghosts who all tell him to "Despair and die," after which he notes "Alack, I (*) love myself," after which he changes his mind and says "alas, I rather hate myself." This play's protagonist describes himself as "determined to prove a villain" in a speech which begins "Now is the winter of our discontent." For 10 points, name this William Shakespeare play about the title hunchbacked king who dies at the Battle of Bosworth Field, thus ending the Wars of the Roses.
Richard III
7

128252-)
One of this author's protagonists remembers being called "a certain sorry little scrub" in a conversation that noted he was not "pricked on by your popes and kings," unlike a rival. That protagonist created by this author notes that "the arm is wrong" in a rival's work and asks "What wife had Rafael, or has Agnolo?" That poem by this author is addressed to Lucrezia by her husband, the title (*) Italian Renaissance artist. In another poem, this author described a "bough of cherries some officious fool broke for" the title figure, who appears in a Fra Pandolf painting. That poem by this author is about a woman whose heart was "too soon made glad." For 10 points, name this poet who included "Andrea del Sarto" in his collection Men and Women and who also wrote "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning 
7

128259-)
One of this author's title figures was "taughtÂ…to sing the notes of woe" because he "was happy upon the heath." That figure notes in one of this author's poems that they have "gone to praise God and his Priest and King, Who make up a heaven of our misery." A poem by this author describes "thousands of" the title figures named "Dick, Joe, Ned, &amp; JackÂ… locked up in coffins of black" That poem's protagonist was sold when his (*) "tongue / Could scarcely cry " 'weep! 'weep! 'weep! 'weep!" This author described the ""fearful symmetry" of a beast "burning bright / In the forests of the night" in another poem. For 10 points, name this poet who included two versions of "The Chimney Sweeper" in addition to "The Tyger" in his Songs of Innocence and Experience.
William Blake
7

128295-)
One omen in this novel is the crowing of a rooster on the afternoon of a wedding; that night, a woman learns that her husband had had a relationship with an older woman in London. One character in this novel is attacked by Car Darch, after which she is taken to a forest called "The Chase," where she falls asleep. This novel's second "phase" sees one character baptize her son herself after her father keeps the parson away, and is titled (*) "Maiden No More." Parson Tringham tells a family in this novel that they may be related to Norman aristocracy. This novel's protagonist is assaulted by Alec, who impregnates her with the baby Sorrow, and she is later abandoned by Angel Clare. For 10 points, name this novel about the title woman written by Thomas Hardy.
Tess of the d'Urbervilles 
7

128310-)
A poem by this author notes that "Nor law, nor duty bade me fight," but rather "A lonely impulse of delight." That poem, which like the one before it in the same collection, was inspired by the death of this author's friend Lady Augusta Gregory's son, sees its protagonist say that his "country is Kiltartan Cross." In another poem by this author, the title figures "Unwearied still, lover by loverÂ…(*) paddle in the cold;" that poem features "nine-and-fifty" of the title birds. In another of this author's poems, "The ceremony of innocence is drowned" and "the center cannot hold" as a "rough beastÂ…Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born."  For 10 points, name this author of "An Irish Airman Foresees His Death," "The Wild Swans at Coole," and "The Second Coming."
W. B. Yeats [or William Butler Yeats]
7

128326-)
One character in this work muses that "Space may produce new Worlds" after arguing that "Who overcomes By force, hath overcome but half his foe." A "Heav'nly MuseÂ…on the secret top Of Oreb, or of Sinai" inspired this work whose end sees a pair of figures walk "hand in hand, with wandering steps and slow." In this work, its author describes how "these (*) eyesÂ…roll in vain / To find thy piercing ray, and find no dawn." This poem's author was described as "of the Devil's party without knowing it" due to lines such as "Better to reign in Hell than serve in Heaven." For 10 points, name this epic poem intended to "to "justify the ways of God to man" written by John Milton.
Paradise Lost
7

128339-)
In response to one theory of this figure's death, a writer noted "Tis strange the mind, that very fiery particle / Should let itself be snuffed out by an article." The title entity of one of this author's poems "[conspires]Â…to load and bless / With fruit the vines that round the thatch-eves run;" that entity is a "Close bosom-friend of the maturing sun." Another of this author's works describes Cynthia's love for the title figure and notes that a "thing of (*) beauty is a joy forever." In addition to writing "To Autumn" and "Endymion," this poet wrote that "heard melodies are sweet, while unheard ones are sweeter" in a poem about a "still unravish'd bride of quietness." For 10 points, name this poet of "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
John Keats
7

128365-)
In this novel, a man in yellow slippers shuffles by a character "at the very moment when it was painful to be reminded of the inadequacy of human relationships." One section of this novel ends with bracketed sentences describing a man blowing out his candle after reading Virgil and a man reaching for his dead wife in a dark passage. In this novel, (*) Minta Doyle cries after the tide comes in before they are able to find her grandmother's brooch, and Charles Tansley admires a philosopher who walks around reciting "The Charge of the Light Brigade." This novel ends with Lily Briscoe putting the finishing touches on her painting as three members of the Ramsay family complete the journey to the titular location. For 10 points, name this novel by Virginia Woolf.
To the Lighthouse 
7

128385-)
In a soliloquy, the title character of this play bids "economy farewell" before claiming that "a sound magician is a demi-god." At the end of this play, a chorus claims that "burned is Apollo's laurel-bough" and exhorts wise men "only to wonder at unlawful things." This play exists in A and B text versions that were published 12 years apart, with the latter extending a scene in which two characters invisibly snatch dishes from attendants and box the (*) pope's ears. An old man attempts to persuade the title character of this play to repent after he summons Helen of Troy at the behest of some scholars. The title character of this play asks the demon Mephistopheles to offer his soul to Lucifer in exchange for 24 years of service. For 10 points, name this play by Christopher Marlowe.
Doctor Faustus 
7

128406-)
In one novel by this author, a man wakes up to see his alcoholic wife about to unwittingly guzzle a bottle of poison before a woman awakens and takes it away. A character created by this author cries out "take the pencil and write under my name, 'I forgive her'" after being tackled to the ground. A novel by this author climaxes with a factory worker falling down a mine shaft after being accused of a bank robbery that was actually committed by Tom (*) Gradgrind. Another of this author's characters receives a death sentence for drowning Compeyson in a river during his escape attempt with Herbert and a boy who he had given his fortune. For 10 points, name this author of Hard Times who wrote about Pip and Abel Magwitch in Great Expectations.
Charles Dickens
7

128430-)
One play by this author opens with a character looking for a pair of scissors to cut out an article from last Sunday's newspaper. In that play by this author, a woman agrees to stay in London and work as a prostitute for three men while her husband returns to America. In another play by this author, two men circle each other with chairs raised above their heads after one of them kicks a man in the stomach, but they are interrupted by a woman with a (*) toy drum. This author of The Homecoming wrote a play in which two characters argue about the phrase "light the kettle" before it is revealed that one of them has been hired to assassinate the other. For 10 points, name this author of The Birthday Party who wrote about Gus and Ben receiving food via the titular conveyance in The Dumbwaiter.
Harold Pinter 
7

128439-)
After pinning a photograph of the protagonist of this novel next to that of a bank robber, a character claims that such a man "does no real harm." A character in this novel hides a book in his oven before running to catch a boat that has already left. Another character in this novel shows a boy his gun after the boy throws a rock at him while pretending it was a bomb. That character from this novel takes a hostage from (*) ConcepciÃ³n as part of his strategy for hunting the protagonist. The protagonist of this novel is hidden in a barn and taught Morse Code by a girl named Coral Fellows. At the end of this novel, the protagonist is lured into a trap when asked to hear a dying man's confession and is executed by a lieutenant. For 10 points, name this Graham Greene novel centering on a "whiskey priest."
The Power and the Glory 
7

128459-)
A character in this play calls fear the "crack that might flood your brain with light" and muses that a certain event "must be indicative of something, besides the redistribution of wealth." That character in this play disappears before he can finish the line "Now you see me, now you don't." After wandering the stage looking for the source of some music, a character in this play states (*) "give us this day our daily tune," causing an actor and his troupe to emerge from the barrels in which they were hiding. This play begins with a character flipping a coin ninety-two times and getting heads every time, and it ends with a quotation from Horatio after two ambassadors announce the title fact. For 10 points, name this Tom Stoppard play in which two characters from Hamlet converse.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
7

128485-)
In this novel, a character remembers accidentally landing on his sister's doll and suggesting that they burn it as a sacrifice. A woman in this novel is angered when her husband cuts their son's hair while he is sleeping and remembers meeting him at a Christmas party where she refused to dance with him. At Wiley Farm, the protagonist of this novel is introduced by Miriam to a woman who is nicknamed the (*) "Queen of Sheba." In this novel, the affections of the protagonist's mother shift after his brother dies and he falls ill with pneumonia. A character in this novel returns to his house in Nottinghamshire after his relationship with Clara Dawes, only for his mother to die shortly after. For 10 points, name this D.H. Lawrence novel that focuses on the lives of the two Morel brothers.
Sons and Lovers
7

128505-)
character created by this author has wild hair because his sister was crying so hard when she was cutting it that she couldn't see properly. In that novel by this author, Reverend Colley blesses passengers on a ship while naked before drinking himself to death, leading Edmund Talbot to read his journal while en route to Australia. Another character created by this author repeats the line "That was a dirty trick" after a boy breaks another character's (*) glasses by smacking him on the head. In that novel by this author, Jack cries out "I'm chief" after a conch shatters when a large rock strikes Piggy and hurtles him to his death. For 10 points, name this British author of Rites of Passage who wrote about a group of boys being stranded on an island in Lord of the Flies.
William Golding 
7

128534-)
A novel by this author was originally subtitled "Banker," referring to the protagonist proving himself by fishing in Newfoundland's Grand Banks. This author wrote about a spoiled boy who joins the crew of Disko Troop's schooner. This author wrote about a religious man who refuses to sell his painting of a wheel of life, and who goes to the Wonder House in search of a river that sprang from an arrow. He wrote about Harvey Cheyne in his novel (*) Captains Courageous. The title character of a novel by this author is the son of an Irish soldier who lives on the streets of Lahore before meeting a Tibetan lama. That boy helps British agents in the "Great Game" while traveling across India. For 10 points, name this English author of Kim and The Jungle Book.
Rudyard Kipling [Joseph Rudyard Kipling] 
6

128542-)
This character "silently consented" to joining another character on a morning walk to Oakham Mount. When told that poetry is the food of love, this character replies that "one good sonnet will starve it entirely away." This character is told to accept an "unhappy alternative" that "From this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents" after a conversation between her and a fan of Fordyce's Sermons. This character's friend (*) Charlotte Lucas marries a priest; that priest, whose marriage proposal this character rejects, is named Mr. Collins. This character stays at Netherfield to nurse her sick older sister Jane, whom she is enraged to learn was intentionally separated from Mr. Bingley. For 10 points, name this second-eldest of the Bennet sisters who marries Mr. Darcy in Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice.
Elizabeth Bennet [or Lizzy; prompt on Bennet] 
6

128564-)
In a novel from this country, Inspector Borlu investigates the killing of a girl in Beszel, a city that overlaps entirely with the city of Ul Qoma. In another novel from this country, Jan Rodricks finds that he is the last man on Earth after returning from Rashaverak's home planet. The City &amp; the City is a novel by this country's creator of the Bas-Lag trilogy, China Mieville. Karellen leads the Overlords to end all wars on Earth in this country's novel (*) Childhood's End, whose author wrote a novel in which Bowman remarks "oh my God! Â– it's full of stars!" after a struggle with HAL 9000. In a novel, this country's ship Thunder Child manages to destroy two tripods of the attacking Martians. For 10 points, name this home country of Arthur C. Clarke and the author of The War of the Worlds, H.G. Wells.
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland [or UK; or Great Britain; accept England] 
6

128580-)
A character with this profession gives a speech about how all material things are bound by a "chain of love" created by the Prime Mover. Saturn mediates between Mars and Venus to kill one of these people after he wins a fight against a former friend who had remained in prison while he was released early. A man with this job refuses a golden ring inlaid with red stone, but accepts a green silk girdle. After one of these people finishes telling his story, the Monk is (*) interrupted by the Miller. That person with this job describes a contest to win Emily between two of these men, Arcite and Palamon, in the first of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales. In a medieval poem, a green one of them challenges Sir Gawain. For 10 points, name these warriors who appeared in chivalric romances.
knights [or knights-errant]
6

128613-)
Beerbohm Tree staged a 1904 performance of this play that made the Darwinist "missing link" portrayal of one of its characters popular until the 1930s. Many productions of this play cut out its Act IV masque, which features Iris and Ceres bestowing their blessings, after which three conspirators are chased down and captured by hunting dogs. That masque from this play ends with its host musing that "We are such stuff / As (*) dreams are made on." In this play, Stephano and Trinculo are caught while trying to carry out an assassination plot during the marriage of Ferdinand and Miranda with Caliban's help. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Prospero shipwrecks several noblemen on his island by calling up the title storm.
The Tempest 
6

128632-)
This poet describes the "whole earth" as "a hospital" with a "wounded surgeon" and "dying nurse" where, "to be restored, our sickness must grow worse" in a poem that repeats, "In my beginning is my end." One of this author's poems locates the dance "At the still point of the turning world" in a poem that contrasts motion and stillness as well as "Time (*) present and time past." According to the extensive footnotes to one of this author's poems, a fable about the meaning of thunder from the Upanishads heavily influences its section "What the Thunder Said." That poem by this author opens with the declaration, "April is the cruelest month." For 10 points, name this author who included "East Coker" and "Burnt Norton" in his Four Quartets and wrote "The Waste Land."
T.S. Eliot [Thomas Stearns Eliot]
6

128634-)
An author recalls filling "five dustbins to overflowing with good food" in this city in the essay "The Spike," which inspired a memoir whose second half describes the author's poverty in this city. Gordon Comstock destroys his poem about this city's "Pleasures" at the end of the novel Keep the Aspidistra Flying. A character becomes a doctor in this city after he is found obsessively making shoes since his release from prison; that man is Lucie Manette's father. This is the second (*) title city of a book in which George Orwell is Down and Out. A lawyer from this city claims to do "a far, far better thingÂ… than I have ever done" by replacing his lookalike Charles Darnay at the guillotine in Paris. For 10 points, name this English title city of Charles Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities.
London
6

128642-)
This fictional character writes a preface comparing himself to his "cousin" William Dampier, and complaining about being forced to praise Queen Anne over his real master. This character describes projects like turning human feces back into food that are undertaken by "projectors" at the academy of Lagado. This man becomes embroiled in the conflict between the Big and (*) Little-Endians. This surgeon is sold to a queen who puts him into a travelling box. This man loves a race of intelligent horses, and despises a race of savage human-like creatures called Yahoos. After being marooned, he is saved by the flying island of Laputa. This man fights a war with Blefuscu to help the six-inch tall Lilliputians. For 10 points, name this character who narrates his travels in a novel by Jonathan Swift.
Lemuel Gulliver [accept Gulliver's Travels] 
6

128664-)
This author wrote a novel in which the money-launderer Dima dies in a plane crash in the Swiss Alps while fleeing from "the Prince." The title of a novel by this author of Our Kind of Traitor comes from a set of codenames derived from a children's rhyme with phrases like "Poor Man" and "Beggar Man." This author used the real-life Kim Philby as the basis for his character "Gerald." While climbing the Berlin Wall, (*) Liz and Leamas are shot at the end of a novel by this author. This author adopted a pseudonym meaning "the Square" while working at MI6. In a novel by this author, the protagonist tracks down a Soviet mole inside the Circus. For 10 points, name this spy fiction author who wrote about George Smiley in novels such as The Spy Who Came In From The Cold and Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy.
John le Carré [or David John Moore Cornwell]
6

128688-)
Many clowning scenes likely written by Samuel Rowley appear in this play, whose authoritative version was published by W.W. Greg in 1950. Near this play's start, a character refuses to speak the name of God upon being asked "who made the world?" after he refutes Ptolemaic astronomy as "fables." Good and Bad Angels counsel this play's protagonist, who wastes time on efforts like pranking Pope Adrian. At its start, the main character sends his servant (*) Wagner to fetch two friends who teach him dark magic. This play's title character asks, "Was this the face that launched a thousand ships" upon summoning the shade of Helen of Troy. For 10 points, name this play about a scholar who binds Mephistophilis as a servant in exchange for his soul, written by Christopher Marlowe.
The Tragical History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus
6

128718-)
Some onlookers leave at the "ninth hour" because they believe this man was killed by the "wolf-of-the-waves." That creature's blood melts this man's weapon, which is covered with inscriptions of the great flood. This man's followers take ten days to build a barrow that sailors can see along the coastline. This son of Ecgtheow [EDGE-thow] rules for fifty winters until a man steals a golden cup. This man sleeps without armor or weapons to confront a creature he defeats by (*) ripping its arm off. This wielder of the sword Hrunting defeats a descendant of the Biblical Cain, as well as that monster's mother. This man is mortally wounded after Wiglaf helps him defeat a dragon. This man saves Heorot, the hall of king Hrothgar, from the monster Grendel. For 10 points, name this hero of an Old English epic poem. 
Beowulf
6

128742-)
After asking whether this man is a traitor, a boy calls liars and swearers fools for failing to beat and hang all the honest men. The phrase "one fell swoop" comes from this character's lament that a "hell-kite" has killed "all my pretty ones." This man and Lennox loudly knock on the gate to open Act II, Scene III of the play in which he appears, in which he exclaims "Confusion now hath made his masterpiece!" A woman remarks that this man "had a wife. Where is she now?" as she asks (*) "will these hands ne'er be clean" and shouts "Out, damned spot!" This man's wife and children are killed on the orders of a man who is told to "beware the Thane of Fife." This man circumvents the witches' prophecy because he was "from his mother's womb untimely ripped." For 10 points, name this killer of Macbeth.
Macduff [prompt on Thane of Fife] 
6

128774-)
In this modern-day country, a woman is angered when her husband attempts to sell her late father's extensive library. Another character from this country is forced to confess that a train arrived in London after the date written on a death certificate. A girl in this country marries a Greek shipwreck survivor named Tito Melema. In this country, Eleanor Lavish steals an English girl's (*) Baedeker guidebook. An obese nobleman from this country helps Sir Percival Glyde plot to seize Laura Fairlie's inheritance. This home country of George Eliot's Romola and The Woman in White's Count Fosco is where George Emerson and Lucy Honeychurch meet in a hotel that contains the title location of an E.M Forster novel. For 10 points, name this country that is the main setting of A Room with a View.
Italy
6

128783-)
A business tycoon with this first name neglects his wife, Marion, who becomes devoted to this man's son Tommy, who had blinded himself by shooting himself in the head, in Doris Lessing's novel The Golden Notebook. A character with this given name mocks a ruler who "capers nimbly in a lady's chamber" while he "cannot prove a lover" and instead is "determined to prove a villain." A man with this name asks to hear "sad stories of the deaths of kings" in the first play of the (*) Henriad. A"rudely stamp'd" character with this name declares "Now is the winter of our discontent," and dies in battle shouting "My kingdom for a horse!" For 10 points, identify the given name of the Duke of Gloucester in a Shakespeare play in which he becomes the third king of this name.
Richard [accept Richard Portmain; accept Richard II; accept Richard, Duke of Gloucester or Richard III] 
6

128806-)
A poem about this subject says that it and "the will of Heav'n" lead him to the "same lot" "As ever in my great Task-Master's eye." In another poem, this thing allows the speaker his "sky blue trades" "In all his tuneful turning." A poem notes that this thing "would take me / Up to the swallow thronged loft" and "let me hail and climb." A poem whose speaker "was (*) young and easy in the mercy of" this thing "sang in my chains like the sea" as this thing "held me green and dying." This central concept of Dylan Thomas's "Fern Hill" features in a poem that envisions "Deserts of vast eternity" after hearing this concept's "winged chariot hurrying near." For 10 points, the line "Had we but world enough, and," what concept opens Andrew Marvell's "To His Coy Mistress?"
 time (the first line is from Milton's Sonnet 7) 
6

128838-)
A poem set at this place ends with sculptors channeling dolphins swimming through the "gong-tormented sea" while working in the "golden smithies of the Emperor." In a poem invoking this location, the speaker contrasts "birdsÂ… in their music" and "sensual intellect" with "a form as Grecian goldsmiths make." This city is the thematic center of two poems which examines its author's artistry alongside "changeless metal" and "the (*) artifice of eternity." While going to this city, the speaker of a poem invokes "a tattered coat upon a rag" because "an aged man is but a paltry thing." A poem with this city in its title opens "That is no country for old men." For 10 points, W.B. Yeats wrote a poem titled for "Sailing to" what city?
"Byzantium" [accept "Sailing to Byzantium"; do not accept "Istanbul" or "Constantinople"] 
6

128839-)
A poem by this author cites dead violets and roses to argue that because of "thy thoughts, when thou art gone, / Love itself shall slumber on." This poet compared a subject to a rose whose scent is stolen by "heavy-winged thieves," and says that it "lovest, but ne'er knew love's sad satiety." This poet described an entity that makes night "the dome of a vast sepulchre." This poet of "Music, when Soft Voices die" asks a creature to "Teach me half the (*) gladness / That thy brain must know." This poet asked, "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" and opened a poem with the line "Hail to thee, blithe spirit!" In a poem by him, an inscription reads "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this poet of "Ode to the West Wind," "To a Skylark" and "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
6

128855-)
This poem is followed by a poem that asks "I wonder by my troth, what thou and I / Did, till we loved?" in its author's collected Songs and Sonnets. This poem argues that "though parents grudge, and you, we're met / And cloistered in these living walls of jet." The speaker asks this poem's addressee "Cruel and sudden, hast thou since / Purpled thy nail in blood of innocence?", and compares the title figure to a marriage bed and marriage temple. Describing how the title figure "sucked me first, and now sucks thee," the speaker uses the "two bloods mingled" harmlessly in the title animal as a metaphor for sex. For 10 points, name this poem about an insect by John Donne. 
"The Flea" 
6

128870-)
During a thunderstorm, this character is given wine from a drunken butler and says that he would teach the drunkard how to "snare the nimble marmoset" as a gesture of thanks and praise. In another part of the play this character is in he is said to have attempted to have raped his master's daughter and would have populated the island with many versions of himself if he were not stopped. This character's mother worshipped the goddess Setebos and trapped the water sprite, Ariel in a 'cloven pine' for 14 years. Son of the witch Sycorax and servant of the wizard Prospero, for 10 points, identify this monstrous mooncalf from Shakespeare's The Tempest. 
Caliban
6

128875-)
"An Abyssinian maid" appears to the reader of this work "Singing of Mount Abora" and the narrator states that those who can hear her music "should see them[selves] there" and "Weave a circle round" the title character three times. Its title was inspired by a passage from Purchas' Pilgrimage, and its author was interrupted from writing by someone from Porlock. "Gardens bright with sinuous rills" and "many an incense-bearing tree" also appear along Alph the sacred river, which runs "through caverns measureless to man," in, for 10 points, what Coleridge poem whose title ruler decrees a "stately pleasure dome" in Xanadu.
Kubla Khan
6

128890-)
Literary critic Buckner Trawick has noted this poem's resemblance to Arthur Hugh Clough's "The Bothie of Toper-na-Fuosich", although he also suggests it may be common source material in Thucydides. In the third stanza, the poet notes that he "hears the long, withdrawing roar" of the "Sea of Faith", and sees the retreat of the "night-wind" down the "naked shingles of the world." At the end, he declares "Ah, Love, let us be true, for the world Hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light", and earlier, he notes that Sophocles may have had similar feelings on the Aegean. For ten points, identify this poem in which ignorant armies clash by night on a darkling plain, a work by Matthew Arnold. 
"Dover Beach" 
6

128907-)
Early in this novel, one character comes home drenched in mercurochrome, which his wife mistakes for blood; that character is later actually soaked in blood during an event dubbed a "jolly good thing" by Reginald Dyer.Â  The main character is born to the clown Wee Willie Winkie and his wife, but is actually the son of William Methwold, an Englishman who leaves shortly after his birth.The beginning of this novel features the crazy boatman Kai and the protagonist's grandfather, a doctor named Aadam Aziz.Â  The protagonist is switched at birth by Mary Pereira, with a boy named Shiva; both infants received special powers due to their time of birth. For 10 points, name this work written as a narrative by Saleem Sinai, by Salman Rushdie. 
Midnight's Children 
6

128911-)
While aboard the Cassandra and the Walrus he acted as quartermaster alongside the gunner Israel. He trusts that his African wife will manage his estate during his absence from Bristol and his mobility is limited by an injury he sustained while in the service of Edward Hawke. He is responsible for the death of Arrow and after his schemes are revealed Abraham Gray is persuaded to leave him.Â  He leads a mutiny against Trelawney and Smollet, the captain of the Hispaniola, and his nicknames are Barbecue and the Sea-Cook. For 10 points, this is what crutch-yielding pirate whose parrot's cries of "Pieces of eight! Pieces of eight!" end Stevenson's Treasure Island. 
Long John Silver 
6

128941-)
In one of this author's novels, the title character goes off to fight in the Crimean War before Dr. Shrapnel's radical ideas nearly derail his successes.Â  In addition to Beauchamp's Career, this author wrote about Ferdinand Laxley, who threatens to duel with the title character should he ever become a gentleman in his Evan Harrington.Â  Another of his title characters abandons his cousin Clare for Tom Blaize's daughter Lucy, while yet another title character of this author abandons her husband Augustus Warwick for her family home.Â  In addition to The Ordeal of Richard Feverel and Diana of the Crossways, this author wrote a novel featuring Laetitia Dale and Sir Willoughby Patterne.Â  For 10 points, name this British author of the sonnet sequence Modern Love and the novel The Egoist.
George Meredith
6

128953-)
The beginning of this work describes the title character's engagement to Sarah, which broken after he is falsely accused by William Dane of stealing the money belonging to Lantern Yard. In another part, one character attempts to sell his brother's horse, but only manages to hurt it, and ends up stealing gold that the title character has been hoarding. The title character finds a baby girl who refuses to live with Nancy Lammeter and Godfrey Cass, and this novel ends happily with the marriage of Eppie to Aaron Winthrop. For 10 points, identify this novel about a weaver of Ravelow, a work of George Eliot. 
Silas Marner 
6

128983-)
One character in this work claims that she is twenty-nine when there are pink shades, and thirty when there are not.Â  In this work, Lord Berwick informs the title character that her husband has been giving large sums to another woman. The protagonist decides to leave her husband for an admirer, Lord Darlington, and throws a birthday party which is attended by a character whom Augustus is infatuated with. Cecil Graham discovers the titular object in Lord Darlington's room, when the title character's mother claims that she mistakenly takes that object from the protagonist. For ten points, name this play whose titular object is a birthday gift presented by Mrs. Erlynne, a work of Oscar Wilde. Â  
Lady Windermere's Fan (prompt on early buzz of: Buzzerlust #1: Lady Windermere's Hug) Â  
6

129004-)
He travels with Partridge when he is banished due to his affair with Molly Seagrim, and he meets Mrs. Waters who is harassed by some officers in Upton. During his stay with the Miller family, this character helps fix Nightingale's marriage to Nancy, and has an affair with Lady Bellaston, but is imprisoned for injuring Mr. Fitzpatrick in a duel. He was tutored in his childhood by Square and Thwackum and is antagonistic to Master Bilfil, but Jenny Jones reveals that he is the son of Bridget Waters, which facilitates his marriage to Sophia Western. For 10 points, identify this nephew of Squire Allworthy, a titular foundling created by Henry Fielding.
Tom Jones
6

129017-)
"Zeinab and Kathema" and "The Retrospect" are among the short poems of this author among the miscellany now called The Esdaile Notebook. His verse play satirizing George IV's attempts to bar his wife Caroline from her privilege to the throne, Oedipus Tyrannus, or Swellfoot the Tyrant, was suppressed, as was an 1811 pamphlet which got him and Thomas Hogg expelled from Oxford, The Necessity of Atheism. Better known is his elegy which concludes that his friend's soul "like a star,/Beacons from the abode where the Eternal are," and his avian ode that begins, "Hail to thee, Blithe Spirit!" Author of "Adonais" and "To a Skylark" was, for 10 points, what Romantic who also wrote "Ode to the West Wind"? 
Percy Bysshe Shelley 
6

129026-)
The narrator of one of his poems "thought it was the Judgment-day" when the title event "Shook all our coffins as we lay," and the speaker of another poem states that "every spirit upon earth Seemed fervourless as I." In addition to "Channel Firing" and "The Darkling Thrush," he wrote the novels Under the Greenwood Tree and The Woodlanders. Diggory and Thomasin get together after the death of Eustacia Vye and Wildeve, and Clym Yeobright becomes a preacher in a better known work, while the title character of another work commits suicide after his failed marriages to Arabella Donn and Sue Bridehead. For 10 points, identify this creator of the fictional Wessex County, who wrote The Return of the Native and Jude the Obscure.
Thomas Hardy 
6

129029-)
In Act IV of this work, the title character disguises himself as a French lute player and uses a flower to poison his own slave, along with the prostitute Bellamira and her pimp Pilia-Borza. Its title character feigns his own death at the same time, prompting the governor of the title locale, Farneze, to order the body thrown over the city walls "as prey for vultures," which works into the title character's schemes, as it gives him access to Calymath, whom he shows a passage allowing Turkish troops to take the city. However, his later plan to kill Calymath backfires as he himself plummets into a boiling cauldron and his daughter Abigail converts to the Christianity he hates. For 10 points, name this play about a Semite named Barabas, by Christopher Marlowe. 
The Jew of Malta 
6

129045-)
This poet wrote "The firefly wakens; waken thou with me" in his poem "Now Sleeps the Crimson Petal." The title objects of one poem are described as "Fresh as the first beam glittering on a sail / That brings our friends up from the underworld," and another poem starts with the line "the wood decays, and woods decay and fall." In addition to "Tears, Idle Tears" and "Tithonus," the title character of one poem comments "much have I seen ands knownÂ—cities of men" and later declares he needs "to strive, to seek to, and not to yield." and another poem includes the assertion "Theirs not to reason why / Theirs but to do and die." For 10 points, name this Victorian poet who wrote "Ulysses" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade." 
Alfred Lord Tennyson 
6

129051-)
One character in this novel fathers the illegitimate child Adele Varens with an opera singer and that charatcter pretends to be engaged to Blanche Ingram, and Bessie Leaven nurses the title character back to health after taking a beating from Mrs. Reed at Gateshead House. The title character befriends Helen Burns and uncovers the embezzlement of Mr. Brocklehurst while at school. St. John Rivers' ends up being the title character's cousin and Bertha Mason burns down Thornfield Manor. For 10 points, name this novel in which the title character ultimately marries Mr. Rochester, written by Charlotte Bronte. 
Jane Eyre 
6

129072-)
n an early episode in this work, Moses is tricked into buying a gross of copper-rimmed green spectacles by the same man who later talks the main character into selling Blackberry, Ephraim Jenkinson. Chapter 8 sees one character recite a ballad after discussing Acis and Galatea with Sophia, who he later marries. That character, Mr. Burchell, is eventually revealed to be the father of the dastardly Squire Thornhill, who betrays the narrator's daughter Olivia and nearly prevents the marriage of George to Arabella Wilmot. Dr. Primrose is the long-suffering titular churchman of, for 10 points, which work, the only novel of Oliver Goldsmith? 
The Vicar of Wakefield 
6

129076-)
A minor character in this work, Eugenius, sees a more important character die, and that dying character's last words quote Sancho Panza, stating that should he recover, "Mitres be suffered to rain down from heaven thick as hail". InÂ anotherÂ episodeÂ of this novel, Le Fever falls ill during his a trip to Flanders, and is visited by the future suitor of Mrs. Bridget, Corporal Trim. This romance nearly parallels that of the Widow Wadman and the title character's uncle, but for a wound the latter suffers in the Battle of Namur, and the title character constantly refers to him as "My Uncle Toby". ForÂ 10 points, name this novel about the Life and Opinions of the title Gentleman, a work by Lawrence Sterne. 
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman 
6

129536-)
This author created a character who is given a check signed "Charlie Chaplin" when he asks Colonel Blount for money so that he can marry Nina. In another novel by this author, Teddy tends to a silver fox farm built at Hetton Abbey, which Brenda had left to marry Jock Grant-Menzies. In that novel by this author, a man has Dickens stories read to him by his prisoner in the Brazilian jungle, Tony Last. This author of Vile Bodies wrote a novel in which Julia divorces Rex Mottram but does not end up marrying her teddy bear-carrying brother Sebastian's Oxford classmate, Charles Ryder. For 10 points, name this British author of A Handful of Dust and Brideshead Revisited.
Evelyn ["EEV-lyn"] Waugh
6

129564-)
A man in this novel puts his dirty hands on a white tablecloth rather than shake hands with the clergyman Mr. Heaton. That man in this novel is enraged when his wife complains of his filthiness, after which he locks her out of the house and she smears her face with lily pollen. In this novel, Gyp's engagement to William ends with William's death from pneumonia. This novel's protagonist cannot bring himself to love Miriam or Clara Dawes because his feelings for them are overpowered by his love for a woman with whom he has the title family relationship, his mother Gertrude. For 10 points, name this novel about Paul Morel, written by D. H. Lawrence. 
Sons and Lovers 
6

129573-)
This play's protagonist refers to another character by saying that he is "As disproportion'd in his manners, as in his shape." One character in this play sings that a drowned body "doth suffer a sea-change into something rich and strange," in a song that begins "Full fathom five thy father lies." This play's epilogue asks the audience to release the main character by virtue of their applause. That character had earlier promised to break his staff and drown his books, even though it would mean losing control of the fairy Ariel and his servant Caliban. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Ferdinand marries Miranda after being washed up on Prospero's island.
The Tempest
6

129608-)
The title character of this novel disobeys a town council by waving a homemade flag on the carriage of a Royal Personage. After finding a starved goldfinch in a cage, one character in this novel finds a man dead in Abel Whittle's cottage. A character in this novel suffers a seizure after seeing a "skimmity-ride". A merchant in this novel loses his money after receiving bad advice from a weather prophet. After Lucetta miscarries and dies in this novel, Donald Farfrae remarries with Elizabeth-Jane, who the title character had drunkenly sold. For 10 points, name this Thomas Hardy novel in which Michael Henchard gains and loses the title office.
The Mayor of Casterbridge
6

129637-)
The title character of a play by this author dresses up as a lute-player with a nosegay in his hat to spy on a pimp. The speaker of a reply to a poem by this author says that "if all the world and love were young" then they might "live with thee, and be thy love" and was written by Walter Raleigh. The prostitute Bellamira conspires with the slave Ithamor against the title character of a play by this author. This author of "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" wrote a play in which the title character is boiled in his own cauldron by Ferneze. For 10 points, name author who wrote about Barabas in The Jew of Malta.
Christopher Marlowe
6

129673-)
A character created by this author prepares to fight Sir Olifaunt to get to the Elf Queen in a story that was left incomplete. Another of this author's characters wears a brooch inscribed with "amor vincit omnia" and recounts the murder of a Christian boy by Jews. Nicolaes convinces John that there is an impending flood in order to sleep with Alisoun in one story by this author. A work by this author opens at the Tabard Inn, where the narrator meets a group traveling to the relics of Thomas Becket. For 10 points, name the author who included stories from the Nun's Priest and the Wife of Bath in The Canterbury Tales.
Geoffrey Chaucer
6

129698-)
A character in this play refuses to have his toe licked to tell the wind's direction, after another man claims to be sane when the wind is southerly. After losing a bet that twice a man's age can be an odd number, a character in this play claims to be of the "blood, love, and rhetoric school". In this play, two characters resembling the protagonists appear in the Tragedians' dress rehearsal of The Murder of Gonzago. In this play, the lights abruptly change before the protagonists are greeted by Gertrude and Claudius at Elsinore. This play's protagonists flip coins that repeatedly come up heads. For 10 points, name this Tom Stoppard play about two murdered courtiers from Hamlet.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead
6

129703-)
In one of this author's novels, a driver hits a hyena at the same location at which he had hit a man ten years prior. One novel by this author opens at the Pension Bertolini, where Charlotte Bartlett wishes to stay near to the Arno. The widower protagonist of one of this author's novels befriends Cyril Fielding and Mrs. Moore, whose son is Ronny Heaslop. The protagonist of another novel by this author breaks off her engagement with Cecil Vyse to elope to Florence with George Emerson. This author wrote about the alleged rape of Adela Quested by Dr. Aziz in one work. For 10 points, name this British author of A Room With a View and A Passage to India.
Edward Morgan Forster
6

129743-)
A character in this poem feels the souls of two hundred of his companions fly by, like the whizz of a crossbow, after they are killed by a woman with skin "as white as leprosy". That character is the only survivor of a dice game in which he is won by Life-in-Death. In this poem, the title character is left "as idle as a painted ship upon a painted ocean" after the loss of a good south wind, and tells of "water, water, everywhere, nor any drop to drink". The Wedding Guest is told how the title character of this poem was forced to wear the albatross he killed around his neck. For 10 points, name this poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge about the title seafaring man.
"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner"
6

129747-)
This character admonishes another to not show others the "the steep and thorny way to heaven" while treading the "primrose path of dalliance." In one scene, this character hands out flowers and herbs but keeps rue to herself. A character picks up a skull at this character's burial, at which this character's brother jumps into the grave. This character sings nonsense like "hey non nonny, nonny" in a scene that takes place shortly before her death. After a soliloquy that states that "conscience does make cowards of us all," this sister of Laertes is told to "Get thee to a nunnery." For 10 points, name this Shakespearean character, the daughter of Polonius who drowns in Hamlet.
Ophelia
6

129778-)
In a play by this author, the accusation that some puppets are cross-dressing is refuted because the puppets have no genitalia. In a play by this author, Peregrine convinces a friend to hide inside a tortoise shell and the central character disguises himself as Scoto and attempts to sleep with Celia, the wife of Corvino. Mosca pretends to help three characters who are vying to inherit money from a wealthy man pretending to be moribund in a play by this author. In a play by this author of Bartholomew Fayre, Subtle, Captain Face, and Doll Common promise the Philosopher's Stone to Epicure Mammon. For 10 points, name this English playwright of Volpone and The Alchemist.
Ben Jonson
6

129801-)
A poem named for this place explains how its inhabitants have given up their "dower / Of inward happiness" because they are "selfish men". The narrator of another poem titled for this place hears the "mind-forg'd manacles" and the "Infants" who "cry of fear" in it. A poem titled for this city exhorts the man who "shouldst be living at this hour", John Milton, and was written by Wordsworth. Another poem titled for this city describes its "charter'd streets" where the one meets "marks of weakness, marks of woe" and was written by William Blake. For 10 points name this city paired with Paris in Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities.  
London
6

129833-)
One part of this novel consists of a chapter from its narrator's novel, A Way Back to Eden, which itself contains a rewriting of Genesis as the story of Adam's friendship with a man named Yedid, who is transformed into Eve when the pair are cast out of the Garden. The narrator of this novel testifies in the obscenity trial of Valentine Wriggley's poetry collection The Love Songs of J. Christ, and earlier in life, the narrator was forced to leave London after being caught in a homosexual affair with Rodney Selkirk. Notable real-life figures present in this novel include Ford Maddox Ford, who has bad breath, and James Joyce. This novel's narrator becomes the brother-in-law of the future Pope Gregory XVII when his sister Hortense marries the composer Domenico, and this novel begins with the narrator being visited by the Archbishop of Malta and asked to help with the pope's canonization. For 10 points, identify this novel about the intertwined lives of the clergyman Carlo Campanati and the homosexual novelist Kenneth Toomey, which won the 1980 Booker Prize for Anthony Burgess.
Earthly Powers
9

129879-)
The preface to this work mentions the removal of 14 lines on Pope that had been written by a friend        of the poet, and in that preface, the author declares that he will be "amply satisfied" by "merely bruising the head of the serpent." One section of this work describes a "scribbling crew" each of whom "spurs his jaded Pegasus apace," and a later stanza asks "Why slumbers Gifford?" before entreating him to arise and "Make bad men better, or at least ashamed," in a section dedicated to those this work's author felt were unjustly ignored. This poem was partly a reaction to a negative review by Henry Brougham of its author's first collection, Hours of Idleness, and this work itself, including its rhyming couplet scheme, is partially inspired by Pope's Dunciad. Robert Southey is called a "Ballad-monger," in this poem, which also singles out as a "stale romance" Walter Scott's Marmion, and calls Coleridge "the bard who soars to elegize an ass." For 10 points, identify this satirical response to Edinburg-based critics, published anonymously in 1809 by Lord Byron.
English Bards and Scotch Reviewers: A Satire
9

129896-)
This character asserts that "To die before being painted by Sargent is to go to heaven prematurely," in a story in which he discourses with a partner called "the Other" on the Academy. Composing a poem on peace, this character begins it with the lines "When the widgeon westward winging/ Heard the folk Vereeniginging" and after being the target of a reform effort by a woman named Amabel, he leads the children of the local choir in a procession in honor of Bacchus. This character states that there should be classes on Christmas gift-giving so that he never receives another "Prince of Wales" prayer book again, and he is first encountered attending Mrs. McKillop's garden-party, where he causes a scene by asking "What did the Caspian Sea?" and later regrets not wearing the apricot tie with the lilac waistcoat. For 10 points, identify this witty British dandy, the subject of a series of stories by Saki.
Reginald
9

129913-)
The title character of this novel is saved from the attentions of Sir Percy when a visitor arrives informing her that Lady Emma is to undergo a serious operation. This novel's title character authors a work titled The Princess Egeria, which becomes a bestseller whose editions "run like fires in summer furze." Having been forced to sell the title estate, the main character of this novel sells political information confided to her by Sir Percy, and gains a measure of freedom after her husband is run over by a streetcar. After being seen accompanied by Lord Dannisburgh, this novel's title character is targeted in a divorce suit by her first husband, Augustus Warwick, and at this novel's end, she marries Thomas Redworth. The likely model for this novel's title character was the author's own wife, whom the author had written about in the sonnet sequence Modern Love. For 10 points, identify this novel about a liberated Victorian woman by George Meredith.
Diana of the Crossways
9

129929-)
At the end of this work, two squires use a magic glass to observe their fathers fighting and killing each other, after which the squires also fight and kill each other. One character in this play engages in a magic duel with Jacques Vandermast by conjuring the tree from the Garden of the Hesperides, but Vandermast conjures up Hercules, who tears the branches from that tree, and is only stopped by the intervention of the first title character. In this work, the words "Time is," "Time was," and "Time has been," are uttered by a head made of brass which is then shattered by a magical hammer, foiling the first title character's attempts to surround England with a wall of brass. The story of this play's title characters is intertwined with the romance between Lacy, Earl of Lincoln, and Margaret, daughter of the Keeper of Fressingfield Park, and this play is set during the time of Henry III and ends with the prophecy of prosperity during the rule of Elizabeth I. For 10 points, identify this comical history play about the two title Oxford clergymen, the best known work of Robert Greene.
Friar Bacon and Friar Bungay
9

129951-)
Certain chapters of this novel are marked with the heading "Tracking with Closeups," which are inspired by the "Camera" sections of Dos Passos' USA Trilogy. Interspersed throughout this novel are quotations from The Hipcrime Vocab, a book by sociologist Chad Mulligan, and this novel's sections marked "This Happening World," are full of advertising slogans for products such as "MasQ-Lines" and organizations such as General Technics. The main plot of this novel, which is related in sections marked "Continuity," concerns Donald Hogan's activation as an assassin and Norman House's rise through the ranks of the General Technics, which seeks to use its intelligent computer Shalmaneser to exploit the country of Beninia. This novel takes its title from the location whose surface area the entire population of Earth             would cover in 2010 if you gave every "codder and shiggy and appleofmyeye a space of one foot by two." For 10 points, identify this dystopian science fiction novel, the best known work of John Brunner.
Stand on Zanzibar
9

129971-)
One work in this collection bemoans a "Poor nation, whose sweet sap and juice/ our cyens have purloin'd," and who, "now by keeping, lose the letter." In addition to "The Jews," this collection contains a work whose first three stanzas begin, "I know the ways of learning," "I know the ways of honour," and "I know the ways of pleasure," while in the fourth stanza claims "I fly to thee and fully understand/ Both the main sale and the commodities," and imagines a silken thread which teaches the author "to climb to thee." Another poem in this collection, which includes "The Pearl," begins with the narrator "[striking] the board" and crying "No more," and ends "Me thoughts I heard one calling, "Child,"/and I reply'd, "My   Lord." That poem in this collection refers to the profession of its author, and is titled "The Collar." The most famous poem in this collection begins "Lord, who createdst man in wealth and store," and takes the orthographic form of the title objects. For 10 points, identify this collection containing the shape-poem "Easter Wings," as well as many other metaphysical poems about God, written by George Herbert.
The Temple
9

130008-)
This poet wrote about looking at the stars "forty-two years ago" in his poem "Star-Gazer." One his poems opens "It's no go the merry-go-round, it's no o the rickshaw, all we want is a limousine and a ticket for the peepshow." The speaker of one poem by this man says "I peel and portion a tangerine and spit the pips and feel the drunkenness of things being various." This poet of "Bagpipe Music" described Ireland as "a nation built upon violence and morose vendettas" in Autumn Journal and wrote about "the drunkenness of things being various" in his poem "Snow." He collaborated with Benjamin Britten on his radio verse play The Dark Tower, and collaborated with W.H. Auden on the travelogue Letters from Iceland. For10 points, name this Irish-born poet who is often grouped with Stephen Spender, W.H. Auden, and Cecil Day-Lewis.
Louis MacNeice
9

130020-)
In an early scene in this work, a man drunkenly throws a kitchen drawer at his wife. In another scene, students visit the Hemlock Stone, with one breaking his umbrella during the excursion. One character in this novel won two-egg cups at the "day of the wakes." That character in this novel later is given a haircut by his father, which causes estrangement among his parents. In a later chapter in this work, the protagonist is assaulted by Baxter Dawes, the husband of one of his(*) paramours. The protagonist of this work has a brother named William, who dies as a young man, and a coal mining father named Walter. This novel's protagonist has affairs with Clara and Miriam, but ultimately goes off alone, shattered by the death of his mother, Gertrude. For 10 points, name this novel about Paul Morel, a work by D.H. Lawrence.
Sons and Lovers 
7

130374-)
This poet promises to stop his infidelity by drinking his lover's "potion," claiming "no bitterness that Iwill bitter think, nor double penance to correct correction." In that poem, he calls his writing a "public means which public manners breed" and compares his branded name to a "dyer's hand." In another poem, he describes an entity "whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken." He described that entity as "the star to every wandering bark" and "an everÂ­fixed mark," and claims that it is not true if it "bends with the remover to remove" or if it (*) "alters when it alteration finds." This author of "Let me not to the marriage of true minds" declared that his beloved "shall not fadeÂ… so long lives this, and this gives life to thee" after calling her "more lovely and more temperate." For 10 points, name this author whose sonnets include "Shall I compare thee to a Summer's day?"
William Shakespeare [do not accept "Earl of Oxford," "Christopher Marlowe," etc. from trollers]
7

130389-)
This character mocks some rats for fleeing a recentlyÂ­refurbished ship that has "Do or Die" written on its stern. In a later scene, this character uses a technique called "delayed decoding" by Ian Watt to narrate the explosion of that ship, the Judea. This character watches a French vessel shell the coastline for no apparent reason. In a city called the "whited sepulchre," he meets a doctor who wants to measure his skull, then has tea with his (*) aunt, who has secured him a job as Fresleven's replacement. In his most notable appearance, this protagonist of the story "Youth" lies to the Intended to conceal that another character's last words were "the horror! the horror!" For 10 points, name this narrator who searches for Kurtz in Joseph Conrad's Heart of Darkness. 
Charles Marlow [prompt on "Charles"]
7

130400-)
In this novel, a man amuses himself by imagining David Hume stuck in a bog before remembering how he used to wander the countryside with nothing but a biscuit in his pocket. A character in this novel announces his intention to find the lost brooch of his fiancÃ©e's grandmother at a dinner centered on a dish of BÂŒUF EN DAUBE ("buhf on dobe"). In this novel, a woman wraps her green shawl around a boar's skull to calm her children. Andrew is killed and (*) Prue dies in childbirth in this novel's section "Time Passes," during which the central house falls into decay. In this novel, Charles Tansley annoys the painter Lily Briscoe, who stays with the main family in the Hebrides. For 10 points, name this novel which ends with the Ramsey family's visit to the title building, a work of Virginia Woolf.
To the Lighthouse
7

130424-)
A poem in this collection portrays a couple whose "ministering angels look surprise on one another" because one is a "guest for queens" and one is a "tired, wandering singer." In a poem from this collection, a "mystic shape" reveals itself to be "not death, but love" after saying "Guess now who holds thee?" and drawing the speaker back by the hair. A poem from this collection (*) lists "freely, as men strive for Right" and "purely, as they turn from Praise." This collection's opening poem discusses the "dear and wished for years" which Theocritus had once sung of. Two poems in this collection begin "Yes, call me by my pet name!" and "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways." For 10 points, name this collection attributed to an Iberian by Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
Sonnets from the Portuguese
7

130445-)
In a novel by this author, a soldier watches a mob of soldiers nearly kill an air force pilot, then catches a gypsy's escaped pig in exchange for water. In one of his novels, a composer abandons a woman to the "Lakeland rapist" in order to work on his Millennial Symphony, and an editor is disgraced for trying to publish photos of a politician in drag. In a novel by this author, a scene in which a girl jumps into a fountain to retrieve part of a broken vase is observed by the writer of The Trials of Arabella. A novel by this author follows (*) Clive and Vernon, former lovers of Molly Lane who agree to a euthanasia pact after her death from cancer. In one of his novels, Robbie Turner is falsely accused of raping Lola by Briony Tallis. For 10 points, name this British author of Amsterdam and Atonement.
Ian (Russell) McEwan
7

130472-)
During a walk in this novel, a man talks about the imprecision of the word "nicest" and teaches the protagonist about "picturesque" landscapes. A character in this novel is jokingly told that she will find a secret passageway to a gold and ebony cabinet containing a manuscript, only to find a linen inventory in a similar cabinet in her room. In this novel, a boorish man who forces the protagonist to miss a walk with two friends later gets revenge by claiming her family is poor. While staying in (*) Bath with the Allens, the protagonist of this novel meets fellow "Udolpho" enthusiast Isabella Thorpe. The main character of this novel suspects that General Tilney is hiding his dead wife on his estate, an idea suggested by her reading of Gothic novels. For 10 points, name this novel about Catherine Morland by Jane Austen.
Northanger Abbey
7

130481-)
A play by this author ends with a woman's speech about looking at her roommate's dead body, then covering the face of a man with dirt from a flower box. In a play by this author, a character taunts anotherfor being upstairs with a woman for two hours without going "whole hog" and is enraged when his cheese roll is eaten. In that play's last scene, a chauffeur reveals Jessie's affair before collapsing. One of his plays opens with a woman serving cornflakes and ends with her (*) saying "I was the belle of the ball." Teddy brings his wife Ruth to his father's house in a play by this author. One of his plays climaxes with a game of Blind Man's Bluff, after which two men take Stanley away from Meg's boarding house. For 10 points, name this British playwright who wrote Old Times, The Homecoming, and The Birthday Party.
Harold Pinter
7

130500-)
. While travelling to this figure's home, another character gives a speech that describes the grief of an old man who sees his son's body hanging on the gallows. A lecture ends by noting that, "until [this figure]comes," the work in which this figure calls "must ever call with a profound appeal." A character killed by this figure is eulogized as the "most eager for fame" of his people. This character moves into the place where a speech lamenting "tuned timber" and "tumbling hawks" is given by the last survivor of a "highÂ­born race." Although ten other men flee, (*) Wiglaf helps fight this figure by stabbing him in the belly. This figure begins destroying farms after a slave steals one of his goblets, prompting the protagonist to fight him to the death. For 10 points, name this goldÂ­hoarding wyrm, the last monster fought by Beowulf.
the dragon from Beowulf [accept the wyrm until read]
7

130520-)
A novel set in this modernÂ­day country opens with poetry written by the ladies of the Residency being savagely critiqued by the Magistrate and the Collector. A novel set in this country repeatedly refers to the refrain "come, come" from a milkmaid's song sung by a professor at a tea party. In that novel set here, a woman feels her "hold on life" undermined by a monotonous, booming echo. J. G. Farrell wrote about the siege of a city in this country in his (*) Empire trilogy. In a novel set in this country, a character befriends a woman who takes her shoes off while in a mosque, Mrs. Moore. In that novel set here, Ronald Heaslop's fiancee, Adela Quested, retracts her claim that the protagonist assaulted her in the Marabar Caves. For 10 points, Dr. Aziz appears in an E. M. Forster novel titled for "A Passage" to what former British colony?
British India [or the British Raj]
7

130534-)
A woman in this play describes hearing a dying man cry "God" four times, then feeling his feet and knees, which were "as cold as stone." In this play, a character is forced to eat a leek which a Welshman wears on his hat. Bardolph is hung for stealing a "pax" from a church in this play. The protagonist of this play promises to "play a (*) set [that] shall strike his father's Crowne into the hazard" after receiving a gift of tennis balls. A speech beginning "Once more upon the breach, dear friends!" is given at Harfleur in this play. The title character of thisplay disguises himself with Erpingham's cloak the night before given a speech addressed to "we few, we happy few, we band of brothers" on St. Crispin's Day. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play whose title king beats the French at the Battle of Agincourt.
Henry V
7

130553-)
A poem "against" these places criticizes how "Another world was searched, through oceans new, / To find the Marvel of Peru" for this kind of place. The line "Till 'Cherry Ripe' themselves do cry" appears in a Thomas Campion poem comparing his lover's face to one of these places. A poem titled for this sort of place mocks men who don't realize "How far these beauties hers exceed" when they carve their lovers' names on trees. That poem describes the mind "Annihilating all that's made / To a (*) green thought in a green shade" in one of them and begins "How vainly men themselves amaze / To win the palm, the oak, or bays." "Sweet and wholesome hours" spent in them are praised in an Andrew Marvell poem titled for this type of place. For 10 points, this sort of place, one of which is the setting of a poem that "justifies God's ways to man," Milton's Paradise Lost.
garden [prompt on "Paradise"]
7

130578-)
In a play from this country, a man is hung upside down and has two toenails pulled out for selling marijuana to students. In that play from here, a girl uses her airgun to shoot out the eyes of three men trying to kill a character enraged over the death of his cat Thomas. In a play from this country, Katurian is interrogated because his grisly stories resemble recent child murders. A playwright from this country created a young (*) widow who narrates as her love interest wins an offÂ­stage mule race. The Lieutenant of Inishmore and The Pillowman were written in this country, which is home to an author of a play in which Pegeen falls for a man who tried to murder his father with a spade. For 10 points, name this country home to Martin McDonagh and the author of Playboy of the Western World, J. M. Synge.
Ireland
7

130599-)
This character uses his contacts to learn of the Eulalie women's underwear brand, which another character uses to blackmail a black shortsÂ­wearing fascist. This character successfully bets on Bates during a competition on which of the local ministers will give the longest Sunday sermon. This character is brought to Totleigh Towers after his employer's aunt uses the cook Anatole to force him to steal a silver (*) cowÂ­creamer. This character is called "Inimitable" and told "Right Ho" and "Very Good" in the titles of three novels. This character's employer hangs out with Gussie FinkÂ­Nottle in the Drones Club. For 10 points, name this character who often has to get Bertie Wooster out of trouble, an archetypical valet and butler created by P. G. Wodehouse.
Jeeves
7

130631-)
A dialogue between two voices reveals that this thing was loved by "the spirit who bideth by himself in the land of mist and snow." This thing falls and sinks "like lead" when the protagonist exclaims "O happy living things!" and blesses some snakes. The protagonist hopes to be washed of this thing's blood when he is approached by the skiffÂ­boat of a hermit. After this creature's (*) demise, a dice game is won by the "nightmare LIFEÂ­INÂ­DEATH." A "thousand slimy things" appear after the death of this creature, which is credited with making "the breeze blow." After dying by crossbow, this creature is hung around the neck of the speaker, who later laments "Water, water, everywhere!" For 10 points, name this large bird which is disastrously shot in Coleridge's "The Rime of the Ancient Mariner."
the Albatross [prompt on "the bird from The Rime of the Ancient Mariner" or similar answers]
7

130636-)
Characters in a story by this author include a woman dressed in an orange coat decorated with monkeys and a playwright who complains about a taxiÂ­driver who sped up when asked to stop. In that story by this author, those characters praise a poem beginning "Why must it always be tomato soup?" One of this author's characters says "pardon my hat" before fleeing a house and returning home, where she stammers (*) "Isn't lifeÂ—isn't lifeÂ—" to Laurie. The protagonist of a story by this author contemplates a blooming pear tree with Pearl Fulton, who she realizes is having an affair with her husband Harry. In one of her stories, the death of a lower class neighbor prompts Laura Sheridan to bring a basket of food to his family from the title event. For 10 points, namethis author of "Bliss" and "The Garden Party."
atherine  Mansfield  (Murry)
7

130666-)
A poem titled for a type of music from this country includes the lines "It's no go the Yogi-Man, it's no go Blavatsky, / All we want is a bank balance and a bit of skirt in a taxi." The speaker tells Dostoyevsky "we cannot tell our voices from the wind" in a poem from this country spoken by a man who falls in a ditch and contemplates the title plant. A poem from this country notes "I'm truly sorry Man's dominion / Has broken (*) Nature's social union." In a poem from this country, the protagonist's horse has her tail pulled off as they flee across a bridge. A poet from this country described a man whose shout of "Well done, Cutty Sark!" prompts witches to chase him, and wrote of "the best laid schemes o' Mice an' Men" in "To a Mouse." For 10 points, name this country home of Hugh MacDiarmid and Robert Burns, the author of "Tam o' Shanter."
Scotland [prompt on the United Kingdom; prompt on Great Britain; do not accept or prompt on "England"] (The leadin is from "Bagpipe Music" by Louis MacNeice.)
7

130691-)
This poet wrote "For every day they die among us, those who were doing us some good" in a poem for an "important Jew who died in exile." He removed lines noting that "TimeÂ… will pardon Paul Claudel, Pardons him for writing well" from a poem that states "Poetry makes nothing happen" and tells its subject "You were silly like us; your gift survived it all." That poem by this author, which is similar to his elegy for Sigmund Freud, claims "What instruments we have agree / The day of his death was a dark cold day" and (*) memorializes a man who "disappeared in the dead of winter." A poem by this author laments "He was my North, my South, my East and West" and gives instructions such as "Stop all the clocks, cut off the telephone." For 10 points, name this poet of "In Memory of W.Â B.Â Yeats," "Funeral Blues," and "September 1, 1939."
W.Â H.Â Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]
7

130697-)
In one poem addressed to these objects, the speaker claims "We die / As your hours do, and dry / Away / Like to the summer's rain." That speaker commands these objects to "Stay, stay / Until the hasting day / Has run" and weeps to see them "haste away so soon." Poems addressed to these objects include one by Robert Herrick and one in which the speaker thinks about them when he (*) lies on his couch "in vacant or in pensive mood." That poem describes these objects as "continuous as the stars that shine" and the speaker can see them on his "inward eye," but first sees these flowers "Beside the lake, beneath the trees, / Fluttering and dancing in the breeze." For 10 points, name this kind of flower that William Wordsworth wrote about in "I wandered lonely as a cloud."
daffodils [prompt on flowers until read]
7

130721-)
A character in this novel tries to get the "three pretty girls" into his honors course while excluding a mustached student who often asks about the syllabus, Michie. In this novel, the protagonist pretends to be named Barclay to steal a taxi, and pretends to be a reporter from the Evening Post to interview an artist. The protagonist in this novel uses a razor to cut out the burnt sections of his bedsheets after falling asleep with a (*) lit cigarette. After her boyfriend Catchpole dumps her in this novel, Margaret Peel pretends to attempt suicide. The title character of this novel is offered a job by Julius Gore-Urquhart and leaves with Christine Callaghan after losing his job by giving a drunken lecture on "Merrie England." For 10 points, name this novel about history professor James Dixon by Kingsley Amis.
Lucky Jim
7

130742-)
The main character of this novel replaces the brandy in a jar with tar-water, surprising a man who frequently reminds him he was "brought up by hand." This novel's narrator is attacked by the "pale young gentleman," who years later nicknames him "Handel." A castle-like house in this novel is home to an old man who often shouts "All right, John!" and has a cannon fired every day at 9, the "Aged Parent." While being (*) rowed out to a steamer, a character in this novel who got rich farming sheep in Australia is attacked by Compeyson, whose jilting of another character led her to stop all the clocks in her mansion, Satis House. This novel's main character receives a fortune from the escaped convict Abel Magwitch and falls in love with Estella, the ward of Miss Havisham. For 10 points, name this Charles Dickens novel about Pip.
Great Expectations
7

130768-)
The narrator of this novel claims that the females in his family have no character at all except for his great aunt Dinah, who married a coachman. In this novel, Phutatorius is scalded after a roasted chestnut falls down his pants. A widow is hesitant to start a relationship with a character in this novel because of a wound he received to the groin during the Siege of (*) Namur. A pregnant woman in this work wants a midwife to deliver her baby instead of Dr.Â Slop, who ends up crushing the title character's nose with forceps during his birth. That title character of this novel begins to wear breeches after being circumcised by a falling window sash. Characters in this novel include Uncle Toby and Parson Yorick. For 10 points, name this digressive novel by Laurence Sterne.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman
7

130778-)
Susan Sontag's Illness as Metaphor discusses a scene from this play in which a woman claims her obese son is consumptive. Later in this play, that woman is furious to discover that a letter supposedly about cockfighting is actually a request for a fresh pair of horses. A character in this play drives a coach in circles for three hours while pretending to drive to Aunt Pedigree's house. In this play, (*) Constance schemes to obtain a casket of jewels so that she can elope with Hastings. At the Three Pigeons alehouse, Tony Lumpkin tricks two travellers into thinking that this play's mansion setting is an inn, allowing the protagonist to pose as a barmaid. For 10 points, name this play titled for Kate Hardcastle's strategy to marry Charles Marlow, a work of Oliver Goldsmith.
She Stoops to Conquer
7

130797-)
In one book, the author rebuts the claim that this thing causes "torpor and stagnation" by describing his Saturday night outings to hear Grassini at the opera. In a book partly titled for this stuff, the narrator offers a lethal amount of it to a Malay sailor who appears at his mountain cottage, a visit that later causes him to imagine he is being chased by a crocodile. After using this product, the narrator witnesses a near collision with a young couple in a carriage in the (*) essay "The English Mail Coach." Another author referred to this substance as an "anodyne" he consumed before sleeping in a preface which blames the poem's incompleteness on a "Person from Porlock." Thomas de Quincey authored "Confessions" of an "Eater" of this substance. For 10 points, what drug allegedly caused the vision that inspired Coleridge's poem "Kubla Khan?"
opium [or laudanum]
7

130817-)
A poem by this author wonders "How often underneath the sun / With childish bounds I used to run / To" the title place. Another work by this poet of "The Deserted Garden" asks "What was he doing, the great god Pan, / Down in the reeds by the river?" A poem by this author states "A creature might forget to weep, who bore / Thy comfort long." A figure who claims to be "not Death, but Love" draws the narrator (*) "backward by the hair" in the first poem in a collection by this author. "I Thought Once How Theocritus Had Sung" is collected alongside a poem that states "I love thee freely, as men strive for; / I love thee purely, as they turn from praise" and that appears after a poem where the narrator commands to "call me by my pet name." For 10 points, name this poet of Sonnets from the Portuguese.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [or Elizabeth Barrett Browning; prompt on Browning]
7

130833-)
This poet wrote that, although "the last lights off the black West went," "morning, at the brown brink eastward, springs." In that poem, this poet observed "All is seared with trade" and "Generations have trod, have trod, have trod." A poem by this author mentions "worlds of wanwood leafmeal" and begins "Margaret, are you grieving / Over Goldengrove unleaving?" The title (*) attribute of another poem by this author "will flame out, like shining from shook foil." This poet of "Spring and Fall" praised "All things counter, original, spare, strange" in a poem that uses his technique of sprung rhythm and begins "Glory be to God for dappled things." For 10 points, name this Catholic English poet who wrote "God's Grandeur" and "Pied Beauty."
Gerard Manley Hopkins
7

130867-)
In the first scene of this play, two characters discuss the newborn baby of Lady Mary Splatt. In his first appearance, a character in this play tears a newspaper into five equal strips and whistles "The Mountains of Morne" while talking to the protagonist. In this play's last act, a character asks whether a large car parked outside has a wheelbarrow in it and announces that she is going shopping for cornflakes. A woman in this play gives the protagonist a (*) toy drum, which is later broken, along with the protagonist's glasses, in a game of blind man's bluff. At the end of this play, that woman, Meg Bowles, says that she "was the belle of the ball" after her two guests, Goldberg and McCann, take the protagonist away. For 10 points, name this play about the title celebration for Stanley by Harold Pinter.
The Birthday Party
7

130875-)
This poem commands "Throw hither all your quaint-enamelled eyes" and "let our frail thoughts dally with false surmise." This poem laments a "homely, slighted" trade and wonders "Were it not better done, as others use, / To sport with Amaryllis in the shade?" This poem may reference its author's trip to Italy in its final couplet, in which the speaker twitches his "mantle blue." In this poem, Phoebus says "Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil, / Nor in the glistering foil." This poem's opening stanza asks "who would not (*) sing for" its subject, and tells laurels that "I come to pluck your berries harsh and crude." This poem commands "Look homeward, Angel" and asks "Where were ye, Nymphs, when the remorseless deep / Closed o'er the head of" the title character, a standin for shipwreck-victim Edward King. For 10 points, name this pastoral elegy by John Milton.
"Lycidas"
7

130908-)
A play by an author of this surname ends with two versions of the character Betty embracing, and has acts set in colonial Africa and in a modern London park. A character of this surname escorts a woman home after she is surrounded by begging gypsy children while leaving a ball. An author of this surname wrote a play in which historical women such as Lady Nijo arrive at a dinner hosted by the title employment agency, as well as the play Cloud 9. This is the surname of the playwright of (*) Top Girls, Caryl, and of Frank, a character who marries Jane Fairfax in Emma by Jane Austen. This is the surname of a politician who won the 1953 Nobel Prize in Literature for books such as A History of the English-Speaking Peoples. For 10 points, give this surname of the author of a history of the Second World War, during which he served as Britain's prime minister.
Churchill [or Caryl Churchill; or Frank Churchill; or Winston Churchill]
7

130916-)
In a Kipling poem, this entity tells a "tale" that notes "your history books begin" when "the Romans left and the Danes blew in!" This entity "lies like a rod of rippled jade" in Oscar Wilde's "Symphony in Yellow." Thomas Gray's poem about Eton College asks this entity, "What idle progeny succeed / To chase the rolling circle's speed, hoop's / Or urge the flying ball?" Matthew Arnold's "The Scholar-Gypsy" contrasts "this strange disease of modern life" with a time when "life ran gaily" like this place. In a poem set near this (*) body of water, the speaker hears "mind-forg'd manacles" in voices as he wanders "thro' every chartered street." Each stanza of Edmund Spenser's poem "Prothalamion" ends by asking this river to "run softly, till I end my song." For 10 points, William Blake wanders near the flow of what river in his poem "London?"
River Thames ("temz") [or Father Thames; prompt on river until "body of water" is read]
7

130926-)
A character in this play explains a plan to use bellows to pump air through a ship and onto cut onions in order to test sailors for plague. The protagonist of this play repeatedly begs for rescue from a woman who lectures him about poetry and philosophy, and is saved when another character claims to have seen her husband with a courtesan. The protagonist of this play sings "let us prove, While we can, the sports of love" in an attempt to (*) seduce the virtuous Celia. Sir Politic Would-be appears in this play, which ends with a trial before the senate at which the two main characters are convicted. With the help of his servant Mosca, this play's main character pretends to be ill in order to get gifts from Corbaccio, Corvino, and Voltore. For 10 points, name this play subtitled "The Fox" about a wealthy Venetian nobleman by Ben Jonson.
Volpone, or The Fox [prompt on The Fox until read]
7

130937-)
This poet asks "When will return the glory of your prime?" in a poem that begins by addressing "O World! O Life! O Time!" This poet describes "The everlasting universe of things / Flows through the mind, and rolls its rapid waves" in a poem that says "Thou hast a voice, great Mountain." This poet of "A Lament" compares the addressee of one poem to "the bright hair uplifted from the head / Of some fierce (*) Maenad" and tells the subject to "Drive my dead thoughts over the universe." This poet describes "Two vast and trunkless legs of stone / Stand in the desert" in a poem whose speaker reads an inscription that commands "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this poet of "Mount Blanc," "Ode to the West Wind," and "Ozymandias."
Percy Bysshe Shelley
7

130966-)
The speaker of one of this man's poems declares he will have "nine bean rows" and "live alone in the bee-loud glade." This author of "The Lake Isle of Innisfree" described a "shudder in the loins" of the title bird presaging its "indifferent beak" dropping the girl in "Leda and the Swan." More swans, "Nine-and-fifty" of them precisely, swim on a pond belonging to this author's friend Lady Gregory in his poem "The Wild Swans at Coole" [koo-lay]. FTP what Irish poet wondered "what rough beast . . . /Slouches toward Bethlehem to be born?" in his poem "The Second Coming"?
William Butler Yeats
6

130970-)
One title character created by this author befriends Tom Pinch, who is presented in an illustration playing the organ drawn by this author's sometime collaborator Phiz. In that same novel this author presents Seth Pecksniff, a pious hypocrite who mistreats the title character, who himself weds Mary Graham. That novel satirized the American piracy of an earlier novel by this author in which the title character's club includes Winkle, Tupman, and Snodgrass. This author of Martin Chuzzlewit created an orphan who befriends the Artful Dodger and joins Fagin's gang. FTP what wildly popular English author wrote The Pickwick Papers and Oliver Twist?
Charles Dickens
6

130991-)
Norman O. Brown used the phrase "excremental vision" to refer to this author's mindset in his poem "The Lady's Dressing Room," which describes a young man's disgust at learning that his lover "Celia shits!" In a novel, this author created a title character who stands naked while an imperial procession passes through his legs. That parade of the enemies of Blefescu created by this author are six inches tall and contrasted with the sixty-foot tall Brobdingnagians. FTP what 18th-century British author described the tiny Lilliputians in Gulliver's Travels?
Jonathan Swift
6

130998-)
A deleted first stanza of this poem described a hero's quest to find the title figure in the underworld, which involves "build[ing] a bark of dead men's bones" and using a dragon's tail as a rudder, though a reference to Lethe still remains in its current opening line. The title figure maintains the company of a figure "whose hand is ever at his lips bidding adieu", and her victims are described as "her cloudy trophies hung." This poem advises the reader to "make not your rosary of yew-berries" nor to consume "the ruby grape of Prosperpine", an allusion to suicide. The title (*) emotion, whose shrine is ironically in the "temple of Delight", can only be shattered by individuals that can "burst Joy's grape against his palate fine." The shortest of its author's odes, this poem tells the reader to "glut they sorrow on a morning rose", one of the few direct allusions to the title emotion. For 10 points, name this Keatsian ode imploring the reader to seek joy rather than the titular sad emotion.
"Ode on Melancholy"
7

131011-)
When suffering from mental illness later in life, the poet John Clare often claimed to be this poet, a contemporary of his. Negative reviews of this poet's first book, Hours of Idleness, prompted him to write the satire "English Bards and Scotch Reviewers." Passion, rebelliousness, arrogance, and intelligence characterize this writer's namesake "hero," exemplified by the protagonist of this author's Childe Harold's Pilgrimage. Another example is the sexual virtuoso hero of this poet's Don Juan [JOO-uhn]. FTP what club-footed Romantic poet wrote "She Walks in Beauty" and was once described as "mad, bad, and dangerous to know"?
Lord Byron (or George Gordon)
6

131064-)
In this novel, a cryptic postcard reading "U.P. up" causes Dennis Breen much mental distress. One protagonist of this novel masturbates while watching Gerty MacDowell lift her skirts, knowing he's watching her, during a fireworks show in a section parodying 19th-century Romantic novels. In a section evoking the shape-shifter Proteus, another protagonist of this novel wonders if he is "walking into eternity down Sandymount Strand" after having an argument with Buck Mulligan on June 16, 1904. Molly Bloom's soliloquy ends, FTP, what dense novel about the symbolic father-son relationship of Leopold Bloom and Stephen Dedalus written by James Joyce and based on Homer's Odyssey?
Ulysses
6

131079-)
This character asks the spirits, "unsex me here,/And fill me from the crown to the top full/Of direst cruelty." Soon thereafter, this character exhorts her husband to "screw your courage to the sticking place," though she worries that he is "too full of th' milk of human kindness." By the last act in which this character appears, she is sleepwalking, and she marvels that the "old man [could] have had so much blood in him." FTP what Â character rubs her hands and grumbles "Out, damned spot!" as she goes mad after her husband kills Duncan in Shakespeare's Scottish play?
Lady Macbeth
6

131095-)
In a work by this author, logic is "gagg'd and bound" while rhetoric "languish'd on the ground." John Hervey is satirized as Sporus, the eunuch "wife" of Nero, in a work by this man that is the source of the phrase "Damn with faint praise." This man was nicknamed the "Wicked Wasp of Twickenham" and was a member of the Scriblerus club. This man wrote about a visit to the Cave of Spleen in a work that begins "What dire offence from am'rous causes springs," and centers on a lock of Belinda's hair being cut off and stolen. For 10 points, name this satirical English poet of The Dunciad and The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope
6

131123-)
One title character created by this novelist gives up Gwendolen for Mirah after learning he's Jewish and deciding to help try to create a Jewish homeland in Palestine. Daniel Deronda was written by this novelist, who portrayed Savanarola's Bonfire of the Vanities in a novel about a title woman who learns to help others during the plague, Romola. This novelist created a title miser who raises Effie and loses his gold in Silas Marner. FTP what female novelist born Mary Ann Evans wrote those novels and Middlemarch under a male pseudonym?
George Eliot (accept Mary Ann Evans before mentioned)
6

131140-)
The title character of a poem by this man wears "gay bracelets and bright feathers" after formerly "digging potatoes and spudding up docks." In another poem by this man, the titular "frail, gaunt, and small" creature flings his soul "upon the growing gloom" and sings a "happy goodÂ­night air." This author of "The Ruined Maid" and "The Darkling Thrush" wrote an 1878 novel in which Diggory Venn and the title character are unable to save Eustacia Vye from drowning. Another novel by this author begins with Michael Henchard selling his family for five guineas. For 10 points, name this English author of The Return of the Native and The Mayor of Casterbridge.
Thomas Hardy
6

131143-)
The speaker of three works in this form declares that "No hand will reach into such depths/To argue with me over your handful of bones." Those works in this form were written after the suicide of a former lover named Romelio Ureta. A cycle of 55 works in this form were written to memorialize Vera Knoop, a playmate of the author Rainer Maria Rilke's daughter, and were dedicated to the Greek husband of Eurydice. Poems beginning "Batter my heart, three-person'd God" and "Death, be not proud" are part of a group of 19 works in this form called "Holy" by author John Donne. FTP what traditional poetic form can be classified as Petrarchan or Shakespearean and includes 14 lines?
sonnets
6

131164-)
One of this man's poems states that the title figure "dwelt among the untrodden ways," while another poem about the same female rhapsodizes that she "seemed a thing that could not feel/The touch of earthly years." Those poems by this British writer were mostly composed when he was touring Germany with his sister Dorothy, who accompanied him on a walking tour that brought him to the River Wye. There he wrote a poem noting that five years have passed since he looked on the ruins of Tintern Abbey. FTP what Romantic poet of "The Prelude" collaborated with Samuel Taylor Coleridge on the collection Lyrical Ballads?
William Wordsworth
6

131167-)
One literary character with this role acts as a detective in a series of linked stories like "The Blue Cross" and "The Paradise of Thieves." Another character has tarnished his work in this profession by having an illegitimate daughter with Maria. That character with this profession is captured when he returns to see the gringo, who refuses to repent his sins before dying in the novel The Power and the Glory. Along with that character who has this profession modified by the adjective "Whisky," another character with this profession terrifies Stephen Dedalus with his graphic depictions of the torments of hell in a sermon. FTP what religious profession do characters like Father Brown and Father Arnall share?
Catholic priests
6

131201-)
This poet constructed a complicated mythology around characters like Tharmas, Luvah, Urthona, and Urizen, collectively called The Four Zoas, who came about from the dissolution of Albion. This poet described the "dark satanic mills" of Britain's early industrial age in a poem that wonders whether Jesus ever came to England and which begins, "And did those feet in ancient time." One poem by this author laments the hard life of the title profession in the child Tom Dacre and the speaker, who could barely cry "weep, weep" when his mother died. FTP what Romantic poet included "The Chimney Sweeper" in his Songs of Innocence?
William Blake 
6

131208-)
In a poem of this type, a man buries his sister and the child born through their incestuous union, who are respectively emblematized as a sheath and a knife. One of these poems, in which the abandonment of a slain knight by his hawk, hounds, and mistress enables two scavenger birds to make an easy meal of his corpse, is considered a cynical reply to another titled "The Three Ravens." Harvard's first Professor of English, Francis J. Child, catalogued 305 of these poems; Child No. 58 describes "the (*) new moon, with the old moon in her arms," an ill omen quoted as the epigraph to Coleridge's "Dejection: An Ode." A diplomatic mission returning from Norway is killed in a shipwreck in one of these poems. Sir Walter Scott compiled a set of these poems popular along the Anglo-Scottish border. For 10 points, "Sir Patrick Spens" is an example of what traditional British poems, that were set to music?
ballads [or folk songs; prompt on songs] 
9

131241-)
This character explains that her own beauty is superfluous given her family's overall radiance, just before abruptly ending the novel mid-sentence. Early in the novel, she rescues a child whose head is stuck between the railings of a banister. This character's maid removes all the mirrors from her surroundings to prevent her from seeing her smallpox-disfigured face. She symbolically buries her doll just before Kenge takes her from her godmother's house at age fourteen. This woman is revealed to be the illegitimate daughter of Krook's (*) dead lodger Captain Hawdon and the mistress of Chesney Wold, Lady Dedlock. Mr. Guppy makes one final cringeworthy proposal to this character on the eve of her wedding to the doctor Allan Woodcourt, whom she still loves despite accepting the proposal of her guardian John Jarndyce. For 10 points, name this heroine of Charles Dickens's novel Bleak House. 
Esther Summerson [or Esther Summerson; or Esther Hawdon; prompt on Hawdon before it is mentioned] 
9

131246-)
A poem by this author ends with the image of ghostly women, "clothed about with flame and with tears," singing "Songs that move the heart of the shaken heaven, / Songs that break the heart of the earth with pity." This poet wrote about a force that is "swift to fasten and swift to sever / Hand from hand, as we stand by the sea" in a poem initially set "Before our lives divide for ever." This poet of "Sapphics" lamented: "Thou hast conquered, O Pale Galilean: / The world has grown grey from thy breath" in a poem about the displacement of (*) paganism by Christianity, which begins "I have lived long enough, having seen one thing, that love hath an end." This poet of "The Triumph of Time" scandalized society with references to lesbianism and sadomasochism in his Poems and Ballads, which followed his verse drama about a mythological boar hunt. For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of "Hymn to Proserpine" and Atalanta in Calydon.
Algernon Charles Swinburne 
9

131283-)
The speaker of this poem did not notice a noise at first because "sun destroys / The interest of what's happening in the shade." Pairs of this poem's eight ten-line stanzas are straddled by descriptions of people "out on the end of an event / Waving goodbye / To something that survived it," and "the lemons, mauves, and olive-ochres that / Marked off the girls unreally from the rest." This poem defines a span of time "just long enough to settle hats and say / I nearly died," during which a dozen of the title (*) events occur. At the end of this poem, a "frail / Travelling coincidence" that "Stood ready to be loosed with all the power / That being changed can give," is propelled into a "sense of falling, like an arrow-shower / Sent out of sight, somewhere becoming rain." The speaker of this poem watches the title ceremonies while sitting in a hot "three-quarters-empty train" bound for London. For 10 points, name this poem about nuptials taking place on the Saturday before Pentecost, which titles a collection by Philip Larkin.
"The Whitsun Weddings" 
9

131361-)
This novel's narrator observes that the innovations of the Romantic poets left George Crabbe "as dead as mutton." A character in this novel returns to Holland to live with his mother after finding himself unable to puncture a painting with a dinner-knife. The ending of this novel is narrated by Dr. Coutras, who diagnoses the main character's leprosy. The narrator of this novel breaks off contact with the main character after finding him callously unmoved by the suicide by oxalic acid of his mistress (*) Blanche Stroeve. The main character of this novel suddenly abandons his stable marriage and job as a London stockbroker to live a starving bohemian lifestyle in Paris, and then marries a second time after moving to Tahiti. For 10 points, name this novel about Charles Strickland, an artist modeled on Paul Gauguin, by W. Somerset Maugham. 
The Moon and Sixpence 
9

131367-)
The second section of this poem is partly set in "a dark / Illimitable ocean, without bound, / Without dimension; where length, breadth, and height, / And time, and place, are lost." The author of this poem pauses the action to celebrate the ease of his "unpremeditated verse." A reissue of this poem included a note calling rhyme "no necessary adjunct or true ornament of poemÂ… but the invention of a barbarous age," in defense of its blank verse. A setting in this poem is lined with flames that produce "No (*) light, but rather darkness visible." A character in this poem observes that "the mind is its own place, and in itself / Can make a heav'n of hell, a hell of heav'n," before concluding: "Better to reign in Hell, than serve in Heaven." The first of its twelve books opens: "Of man's first disobedience, and the fruit / Of that forbidden tree." For 10 points, name this epic poem about the angelic war in Heaven and the Fall of Man, by John Milton.
Paradise Lost 
9

131375-)
In an essay by this author, a shabbily dressed dwarf lady boldly displays her perfectly proportioned feet as she tries on several expensive pairs of shoes. An essay by this author disfavorably compares an author who had built a "magnificent apparatus for catching life just an inch or two on the wrong side," to the lively manner in which Chekhov describes the drowning of a soldier in his story "Gusev." This author narrated a flaneur's quest to obtain a lead pencil in the essay (*) "Street Haunting," and savaged her usual punching bag Arnold Bennett in her essay "Modern Fiction." The narrator contrasts a sumptuous lunch at an all-male college with a dull dinner at an adjoining women's college in this author's best-known essay, which praises the "incandescence" of the best literary minds. This author imagined the abortive career and tragic suicide of Judith, an equally talented sister of Shakespeare, in an essay declaring that women need money and the title domicile to successfully write fiction. For 10 points, name this author of "A Room of One's Own."
Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Woolf; or Virginia Stephen] 
9

131384-)
A character in this play speculates that technological progress, as exemplified by the newly-built Titanic, will soon make war obsolete. In his final speech, the title character of this play warns that if men do not learn that they are dependent on one another, then "they will be taught it in fire and blood and anguish." After saving her from the lecherous alderman Meggarty at the bar in the Palace Variety Theater, a character in this play begins an affair with a woman calling herself Daisy Renton. In this play, for supposedly insulting her when she tries on a (*) dress, Sheila admits to getting an employee of the Milwards department store fired. This play ends with the news that a woman has killed herself by drinking disinfectant. Thus, despite the fact that he is posing as a member of the title profession, "Goole" correctly gets each member of the Birling family to confess their part in driving Eva Smith to commit suicide. For 10 points, name this play in which a policeman crashes the Birlings' engagement party, written by J.B. Priestley. 
An Inspector Calls 
9

131392-)
In The Marriage of Heaven and Hell, Blake declared that "Exuberance is" this concept. In the second line of The Prelude, Wordsworth wrote that as a child, he was "fostered alike by" this concept and "by fear." The third stanza of "Ode to a Nightingale" is set in a place where this concept "cannot keep her lustrous eyes." In another poem, the speaker urges a personification of this concept to "Depart not - lest the grave should be, / Like life and fear, a dark reality." In "Ode on Melancholy," Melancholy (*) "dwells with" a manifestation of this concept that "must die." This concept is personified by "the awful shadow of some unseen Power" in Shelley's "Hymn" to its "Intellectual" type. Keats's Endymion begins by asserting that "a thing" of this quality "is a joy for ever." For 10 points, name this quality which Keats equated with "truth" in "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
beauty [or intellectual beauty] 
9

131405-)
In a play titled for one of these people, a woman locks up her husband's formal gown so that he will have nothing to wear to a meeting at the senate, but he fashions a new one out of a tablecloth. In another play titled for one of them, a group of bandits put out the eyes a lecherous servant who reveals the identity of her mistress's lover, after which the mistress delivers a letter written in her own blood to Friar Bonaventura. The Duke of Milan fakes the death of his daughter Infelice in a play co-written by Thomas Dekker and Thomas Middleton, in which Bellafront insists to Hippolito that she is an (*) "Honest" example of these people. The Cardinal delivers the final lines of a play titled for one of these people, shortly after its protagonist emerges with the heart of Florio's daughter on his dagger, and kills Soranzo before being mortally wounded by Vasquez. For 10 points, the incestuous relationship between Giovanni and Annabella is the subject of John Ford's tragedy titled Tis Pity She's what sort of person?
a whore [do not accept or prompt on "ho"] 
9

131414-)
A poem by this author describes a painting of a religious scene in which "angels, their unnatural wings displayed, / Freeze into an attitude / Recalling the dead." This poet declared that "the years will not / answer for what they have done, that much is / certain," in a poem taking its title from Horace's Ode 1.22. The one line canto "Sun-blazed, over Romsley, a livid rain-scarp" bookends a 150-part collection patterned after the Book of Psalms by this poet of "Picture of a Nativity" and "Integer Vitae." This husband of librettist Alice Goodman wrote a set of eight sonnets set at the Battle of (*) Towton during the Wars of the Roses, titled "Funeral Music." This poet may be best known for his thirty prose-poems juxtaposing his childhood in the West Midlands with Offa's dominion over the same area. For 10 points, name this notoriously difficult British poet of The Triumph of Love and Mercian Hymns, a casualty of the year 2016.
Geoffrey Hill [or Sir Geoffrey William Hill] 
9

131421-)
A character in this novel recounts meeting a Chinese man during his travels, who tossed three pills into water that transformed into a ship, a house, and a flower, and produces his claspknife to mimic an Italian being stabbed in the back. This novel details the furnishings, location, and cost of its protagonist's ideal suburban bungalow, right after taking up nearly a page itemizing his budget. In this novel's last chapter, a train whistle obscures the sound of a woman shifting in bed and (*) farting. A character in this novel remembers putting "the rose in my hair like the Andalusian girls" on the blissful day in Howth when her fiance had proposed to her. This novel's final three sections, collectively known as the "Nostos," are an account of a meal at a cabman's shelter, a set of 309 questions and answers in the style of a catechism, and an eight-sentence, twenty-two page long soliloquy that ends "yes I said yes I will Yes." For 10 points, name this novel that ends with Molly and Leopold Bloom reunited at home, by James Joyce.
Ulysses
9

131435-)
This poet asked "For what is life, if measured by the space / Not by the act?"  in an unusual Pindaric ode alternating sections marked "The Turn," "The Counterturn," and "The Stand," celebrating the "immortal memory and friendship" of two of his best buds. This poet wrote that "other edifices," when they see the title structure, "May say their lords have built, but thy lord dwells," at the end of his poem addressed to Philip Sidney's estate. This author of the earliest major country house poem, "To (*) Penshurst," wrote a poem whose speaker notes that the "rosy wreath" he got back from his lover smells "Not of itself, but thee." This author wrote that "he was not for an age, but for all time!" in his poem "To the Memory of My Beloved, the Author Mr. William Shakespeare," which serves as the preface to the First Folio. The Cavalier poets self-identified as the "Sons of" this author, whose best-known lyric opens: "Drink to me with only thine eyes." For 10 points, name this poet whose "Song: To Celia" appears in his play Volpone.
Ben Jonson [or Benjamin Jonson] 
9

131460-)
A speech by Nina in one of these literary situations is repeatedly interrupted by Arkadina to Treplev's annoyance in Chekov's The Seagull. Holofernes creates one of these depicting the Nine Worthies in Love's Labour's Lost. The best known of these literary works depicts Lucianus's marriage to his aunt Baptista after Lucianus kills the title figure; that work is preceded by a "dumbshow" in which a killer pours poison in a king's ear, and is performed for characters like Gertrude, Claudius, and Ophelia. FTP what type of work is The Murder of Gonzago, which is presented as a type of entertainment within Hamlet?
play within a play (don't accept or prompt on "frame story")
6

131490-)
In one scene of this novel, Jack Lawton is pandied after claiming that the Latin noun "mare" has no plural. This novel's protagonist's aunt Dante owns green and maroon combs and says he should apologize or "the eagles will come and pull out his eyes." After attending Clongowes, the protagonist is struck by a lengthy sermon on hell given by Father Arnall but later denounces Catholicism during a conversation with Cranley. This work includes the epiphany of the bird-girl and an earlier draft of it was called Stephen Hero. For 10 points, name this work about Stephen Dedalus by James Joyce.
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
6

131507-)
In one narrative poem by this author, the title Roman noblewoman commits suicide after being raped by Tarquin. In another poem, this author described the funeral of two birds whose love was so powerful their cremation yields the birth of a more beautiful bird. This author of The Rape of Lucrece and The Phoenix and the Turtle created a character based on the knight John Oldcastle who was so popular with Queen Elizabeth that she wished to see that character "in love." FTP what author thus used Falstaff in his The Merry Wives of Windsor, a playwright of other plays such as Othello and The Tempest?
William "Dollar Bill" Shakespeare
6

131547-)
One author with this last name wrote a novel in which the curate Edward Weston marries the titular governess, who had been employed by the Bloomfield and Murray families. The author Daphne du Maurier wrote about the "Infernal World" of one person with this last name. One author with this surname wrote a novel that ends with Bertha Mason burning down Thornfield and Edward Rochester marrying the title character. Another author with this last name wrote a novel partly set in Thrushcross Grange that begins with Heathcliff's arrival at the titular Yorkshire moor. For 10 points, identify this last name shared by the authors of Jane Eyre and Wuthering Heights. 
Bronte
6

131561-)
One of this author's characters kills all of the nuns in a convent with poisoned rice and later frames the friar Jacomo for the murder of another friar named Barnardine. The "Baines note" quotes this author as saying that "they who love not tobacco and boys [are] fools." He wrote about a character who boxes the pope's ears after giving grapes to the Duchess of Vanholt. One of his characters, the father of Abigail, kills his Turkish servant Ithamore before being tricked into falling into a pot of boiling oil. He also wrote about a scholar who sells his soul to Mephistophilis. For 10 points, name this author of The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
Christopher Marlowe
6

131586-)
A dog named Mister Mars is stolen from the flat of Sammy Starfield in a novel set in this city that centers on the adventures of Finn and Jake, Iris Murdoch's novel Under the Net. Tobias Oates describes a man looking for Henry Phipps in another novel set in this city. That Peter Carey work about Jack Maggs is a reworking of a novel set here about an apprentice of Joe Gargary, who sees the death of Abel Magwitch. This home of Pip in Great Expectations is also the setting of a work that provides an eyewitness account of events like the Second Dutch War and the Great Fire. For 10 points, name this city, the home of diarist Samuel Pepys [Peeps].
London
6

131632-)
This author asked "Why should I blame her that she filled my days with misery?" in "No Second Troy" and wrote about "Lion and woman and the Lord knows what" in "The Circus Animal's Desertion." One of his poems describes "sing[ing]Â…of what is past, passing, or to come" after addressing "sages standing in God's holy fire". This author wrote "the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity" in a poem that asks, "What rough beastÂ…slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?" The line "That is no country for old men" begins this author's poem "Sailing to Byzantium." For 10 points, name this author of "The Second Coming".
W(illiam) B(utler) Yeats
6

131696-)
This essay defends the value of physiognomy by issuing the scorching take that "Heracles is not only known by his foot." Its author wrote: "I look upon you as a Gem of the Old Rock" in the introductory epistle, addressed to his friend Thomas le Gros. This essay notes that "Herostratus lives that burnt the Temple of Diana, he is almost lost that built it," in a paragraph that asks "Who can but pity the founder of the Pyramids?" Its fifth and final chapter declares that man can be found "solemnizing Nativities and Deaths with equal lustre, nor omitting Ceremonies of Bravery, in the infamy of his nature," because man is a (*) "Noble Animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave." The first chapter of this companion essay to "The Garden of Cyrus" notes that "the treasures of time lie high," in the title objects, "Coynes, and Monuments, scarce below the roots of some vegetables." For 10 points, name this essay prompted by the discovery of a Roman funerary vessel in Norfolk, written by Thomas Browne. 
Hydriotaphia, Urn Burial [either underlined answer is fine, the full title is Hydriotaphia, Urn Burial, or, a Discourse of the Sepulchral Urns lately found in Norfolk] 
9

131711-)
In the third play in this series, a character declares his intent to "add colours to the chameleon, / Change shapes with Proteus for advantages, / And set the murderous Machiavel to school." The second play in this series presents an early version of Mary's Room in a scene in which a man claiming to have been miraculously cured of congenital blindness is exposed as a fraud when he correctly identifies the colors of robes. At the end of that play in this series, a man satisfies a prophecy that he should avoid castles, when he is killed under the sign of one hanging from an alehouse. Dick the Butcher suggests: "The first (*) thing we do, let's kill all the lawyers" during Jack Cade's rebellion in the second of these plays. Thomas Nashe may have co-written the Temple Garden scene in the first of these plays, in which nobles support the Duke of Somerset or Richard Plantagenet by plucking red or white roses. For 10 points, name this trilogy of history plays spanning the reign of the title ineffectual king, written by Shakespeare. 
Henry VI
9

131742-)
A character in this story suppresses the urge to say "rats" in disbelief while hearing a man's ridiculous claims, but eventually caves and exclaims: "beyond-rats!" This story is set during "that indefinite season when partridges are still in security or cold storage, and there is nothing to hunt." A car in this story is nicknamed "The Envy of Sisyphus," because "it goes quite nicely up-hill if you push it." A character in this story is more crestfallen than "an archangel ecstatically proclaiming the new Millennium, and then finding that it... would have to be indefinitely postponed," when Sir (*) Wilfred suggests putting strychnine in the title character's scraps and then drowning him. Lady Blemley writes a nasty letter to the rectory after its "big yellow tom" claws and bites this story's title animal to death. A character in this story is killed at the Dresden Zoological Garden by an elephant he was trying to teach German irregular verbs. For 10 points, Cornelius Appin teaches a cat how to talk in what story by Saki?
Tobermory" 
9

131759-)
Descriptive answers acceptable. During this scene, a woman is likened to a "famous ape" that crawls into a bird-filled basket but ends up breaking its neck. During this scene, a character points out features such as "Hyperion's curls, the front of Jove himself," and "An eye like Mars," that appear in a painting hanging right next to one that looks like "a mildewed ear / Blasting his wholesome brother." A character laments that "heaven hath pleas'd it so, / To punish me with this and this with me" during this scene, before imploring a woman to (*) abstain from further sex with her husband. This scene ends as a character gleefully declares that "'tis the sport to have the engineer / Hoist with his own petard," before dragging a corpse out of the room. This scene, the fourth in Act III, marks the final appearance of the former king's ghost. During this scene, a character delivers the classic line: "O, I am slain!" after being fatally struck through a tapestry. For 10 points, name this scene from Hamlet set in Gertrude's room, where Ophelia's father gets punished for eavesdropping.  
Polonius's death [or any answers suggesting that Polonius is killed; accept the scene set in Gertrude's room before it is mentioned, accept the closet scene before "room" is mentioned; accept Act III, scene IV of Hamlet before it is mentioned; accept the final appearance of the ghost before that's mentioned; accept Polonius getting pwnt from Libo Zeng] 
9

131773-)
A poem set in the last year of this decade invites the reader to "come let us mock at" the great, wise, and good, and "mock mockers after that" for choosing not to help them instead. Another poem set in this decade observes that "little time had they to pray / For whom the hangman's rope was spun." A third poem set in this decade discusses a woman who spent her days in "ignorant good-will," and "her nights in argument / Until her voice grew shrill." The lines "Romantic (*) Ireland's dead and gone, / It's with O'Leary in the grave," end most stanzas of a poem set in "September" of a year in this decade.  The line "I met them at close of day" opens a poem set in this decade, whose speaker exchanges "polite meaningless words" with his countrymen, before a historical event leaves them "all changed, changed utterly," prompting him to declare that "a terrible beauty is born." For 10 points, name this decade during which Yeats's poems about the Irish War of Independence and the Easter Rising are set. 
1910s [the poems are "Nineteen Hundred and Nineteen," "September 1913," and "Easter, 1916"] 
9

131827-)
17. This author created a fake author who himself created the characters of Slug Willard and Shorty Andrews, both of whom always ride off into the sunset. Another of this author's characters is known for his "melodious lays," which he recites even though he fell off a tree and bled "from head to toe." In one novel by this author, the narrator acquires a black box filled with four boxes of omnium. That novel's title character has the face of the dead Mathers, whom the narrator earlier killed. In a different work, this author intertwines the tale of the science fiction writer Trellis with that of Pooka by an unnamed student of literature. In another novel, this author wrote about an admirer of de Selby who meets Sergeant Pluck and MacCruskeen. For 10 points, name this Irish author who wrote the postmodern novels At Swim Two Birds and The Third Policemen 
Flann O'Brien or Brian O'Nolan
9

131846-)
The protagonist of this novel is married to a woman whose father owned a pineapple farm before he was made an ambassador to Chile. The protagonist of this work, who is currently working on a book on the Spanish Cabbala, becomes sentimental when he hears the song Guadalahara playing in the arena. After the protagonist falls to death at the end of this work, it is noted someone through a dead dog after him into a ravine. The beginning of this work sees its main characters view Popocatepetl and Ixtaccihuatl after Jacques Laurell and Arturo Vigil comes into town. This novel, set entirely in Quauhnahuac, details the fallout of Cardenas's nationalization of oil reserves and the impact on the protagonist, an ex-consul for the United Kingdom. For 10 points, name this novel about Yvonne and her husband Geofferey Firmin, a work set entirely on the Mexican Day of the Dead written by Malcolm Lowry.
Under the Volcano
9

131869-)
In this author's diaries, she records the misadventures of Colonel Goldsworthy and Colonel Manners, both of whom report to General Rude. That diary describes the scandalous Mr. Turbulen and the impeachment of Warren Hastings. In one of this author's works, Dr. Marchmont schemes to have the protagonist not enter into marriage with the owner of Beech Park Estate, Edgar Mandlebert. Another novel chronicles Robert Floyer's and Mortimer Deville's love for the title character, who will inherit a vast quantity from The Dean if her husband takes up her last name of Beverley. This author also wrote a novel whose title protagonist is the subject of the suitorships of Clement Willoughby, but she ends up marrying Lord Orville. Her novels, with subtitles like "Memoirs of an Heiress" led this author to be called "our first woman novelist" by Jane Austen. For 10 points, name this author of Camilla, Cecilia, and Evelina.
Francis Burney
9

131875-)
In one work by this playwright, Father and Junius praise the splitting of an atom and conclude "We are all post-atomists now." In another work, this author depicted the court of the title figure by having Gottfried Keller and Isaac Newton discuss theory in the auspices of Catherine of Braganza's husband. One work by this author is prefaced by "The Author's Apology" which claims "drama Â… is no longer in the hands of the playwright, but rather in the musician." Another of this man's works sees Michael Broadbent corrupt Larry Doyle from his family. This author of Buoyant Billions also wrote a work set in the 19th century which sees a man reveal he doesn't have any ammunition but rather chocolates which leads Captain Bluntschilli to elope from the Serbian army. This author of In Good King Charles's Golden Days also wrote about Crofts and the title character Kitty, the latter of whom has a daughter that works at Honoria Fraser's law firm. For 10 points, name this author of Arms and the Man and Mrs. Warren's Profession.
George Bernard Shaw
9

131908-)
This character has a conversation with a man that makes use of the words "source of life" and "mystery." Throughout the work he appears in, he is constantly described by the author as a "good man," which culminates in this character describing that "it wasn't courage" but rather "my desire to show I'm a good man" that "I didn't flee." He consumes a cube of sugar intended for a dead child in the afterlife and is mocked by a "pious woman" who claims that this man is responsible for "making a mockery out of real religion." In another notable scene, he is not recognized for who he is because his hands have become extremely calloused, which leads the police to take a hostage before he goes to La Candelaria. In the end, the mestizo betrays him and he is executed by the unnamed lieutenant. For 10 points, identify this unnamed protagonist from The Power and the Glory that gets part of his moniker from his love of booze.
the Whiskey Priest
9

131924-)
In a humorous medieval play by this man, the mad poet Mark Askelon decides to play a game of "hound the humanist" against Sir Gideo Petrie. In another work by this playwright of The Battle of Shrivings, Helen contemplates getting revenge for the death of her husband Edward Damson after Lord Longford kills him. In another play, the protagonist makes an agreement not to massacre a bunch of men if a king can kill fill two rooms completely with gold treasures. This author of The Gift of the Gorgon also included the historical characters of Franz Rosini-Rosenberg and Baron Gottfried van Swetten in a court setting of a play that describes the title character's love for  Constanze Weber's and his eventual poisoning. This author of The Royal Hunt of the Sun also wrote a work whose protagonist wishes to ride naked on Nugget. That play by this author focuses on Martin Dysart's attempts to treat Alan Strang. For 10 points, name this author of Amadeus and Equus.
Peter Shaffer
9

131943-)
The last lines in this play describe how two characters shall wait or "sooner shall they drink the world dry" and also "gives praise" neither to Fate or Fortune "but to Heaven." Thomas Heywood wrote two sets of prologues and epilogues for this play, one for the "Cock-Pit" and one for the Court. In the fourth act of this play, one priest uses his staff to strike down the corpse of another priest after proclaiming "this is the Happy Hour, I shall convert an infidel." At a market place, one character in this play describes his time killing pilgrims and slitting throats during Charles V's campaign against the Schmalkaldic League. This play's title character's motives are explained in the first act by the ghost Machiavael, as his actions include using some rice to poison an entire nunnery and having his slave Ithamore murdered after his daughter Abigail dies. For 10 points, name this play about Barrabas, a work of Christopher Marlowe.
The Jew of Malta
9

131960-)
In the last act of this play, one character is about to force another character to eat the leek in his hat, only to learn that he has left the army to become a pimp. In its prologue, the chorus invokes the "Muse of Fire" and asks the audience to pre-suppose that "within the girdle of these two walls, are now confined two mighty monarchies." The protagonist urges his listeners to "summon up the blood, disguise fair nature with hard-favour'd rage" in a speech that notes "I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips." Comic relief in this play is provided by Pistol, Nym and Bardolph, who insult the Welsh Fluellen. In the last scene of this work, the title character marries Catherine of Valois, whose child is the protagonist of three history plays by the author. For 10 points, name this play that includes the line "we few, we happy few, we band of brothers," in its St. Crispin's Day Speech, a work of Shakespeare that recreates the Battle of Agincourt.
Henry V
9

131983-)
The speaker of this work, who possesses "a beating heart and streaming eyes," says that "I called on poisonous names with which our youth is fed." This work describes meeting the addressee then he "shrieked, and clasped my hands in ecstasy." Its speaker knows "the day becomes more solemn and serene when noon is past" and describes "frail spells, whose uttered charm might not avail to sever." Another section of this work describes how the title figure's departure is what leads to a "dark reality," but his presence leads to the aura of "music by the night-wind sent" and "moonlight on a midnight stream." The title figure's fleetingness is compared to the "summer winds that creep from flower to flower" for he visits this "various world with as inconstant wing." Beginning with a description of a "shadow of some unseen power," for 10 points, name this Percy Shelly poem framed as a hymn.
"Hymn to Intellectual Beauty"
9

132006-)
This work's genesis lies in its author's reading of another author's volume on Oliver Cromwell and the play Love's Dominion. It describes how a "tragic muse gives smiles," and its central subject has a "felonious heart though venom lies." At its end, Bruce and Lonvil prepare a trap for the title figure, wherein his "drugget robe is left behind." It compares the faculties of its central subject to "monarch oaks that shade the plain." In a part addressing fame that spreads from Bunhill to Watling Street, "No Persian carpets spread the imperial way, but scattered limbs of mangled poets lay." Written in a series of heroic couplets, its second line claims "when fate summons, monarchs must decay," and it begins "All human things are subject to decay. For 10 points, identify this John Dryden poem that attacks Thomas Shadwell and the title author.
Macflecknoe
9

132018-)
One of this author's works compares a King with a glass, because neither is brittle, and the latter contains an image of the King, while the former contains an image of God. Another work, found in the same series, bemoans "there have been too many examples of men, that have been their own executioners," and that one claims "Nature is God's immediate commissioner." Those two works, titled "The King sends his own physician" and "They apply pigeons to draw vapors from the head" can be found alongside another work  that claims "when she buries a man, that action concerns me," for "No man is an island ... every man is a piece of a continent." That work by this author provided the title to Hemmingway's novel set during the Spanish Civil War. For 10 points, name this author of Devotions upon Emergent Occasions that wrote "Batter my heart three personed God," one of his Holy Sonnets.
John Donne
9

132047-)
After being revived with a kiss in the grass, one of the title characters of this work wonders if she is in "earth or heaven, or in the ocean drench'd, or in the fire." At another point, that character says "Woe, woe" more than twenty times. That character then compares her lover's "body to a swallowing grave" and is seen saluting the sun and weeping after her lover leaves her on the trail of a "bright star that shooteth from the sky." Eventually, she, "weary of the world," is led away from the scene in a chariot pulled by two silver doves, "holding their course to Paphos." Its epigraph, written in Latin asks Phoebus to lead the author to "Muses' springs." For 10 points, identify this poem about a mythological pair of lovers that is dedicated to the earl of Southampton, written by the author of The Rape of Lucrece and The Phoenix and the Turtle, William Shakespeare.
Venus and Adonis
9

132054-)
Its last portion describes a ghost who shouts "hollow, hollow, hollow all delight" and describes "the new sun rose bringing the New Year." One character in this work claims "This day, my Queen of Beauty is not here" after being visited by a tatterdemalion peasant describing the Red Knight living in the North, which leads to its main character to throw the "Tournament of the Dead Innocence." It also includes a tale about two characters, one of whom goes hunting for a demon in the woods and is nearly killed by the other after visiting the castle of Pellam and hanging his shield in a tree. Its first poem, titled after "The Coming of" this works' main character, describes Leodogran, the king of Cameliard asking him for assistance.  Including "The Last Tournament" and "The Passing of Arthur," for 10 points, identify this poetry collection by Alfred Tennyson about Arthurian legend.
Idylls of the King
9

132089-)
The narrator of one of his poems "came upon a little town that slumbered in the harvest moon." That poem claims "They will not hush, the leaves a-flutter round me, the beech leaves old." In another poem, this author describes "where the wandering water gushes, / from the hills above Glen-Car," and that poem ends "For the world's more full of weeping than" the title character can understand. This author of The Madness of King Goll also wrote a work which sees its title character spend three hundred years in the Otherworld, before he describes how for "a hundred years, I chased upon that woody shore." Another of his works claims "I hear it deep in the heart's core" and claims "I will arise and go now" to the title island. For 10 points, identify this author of "The Stolen Child," which can be found in his The Wanderings of Oisin, an Irish poet who also wrote "The Lake Isle of Innisfree."
William Butler Yeats
9

132100-)
The title character of this work is in some catacombs looking at a statue before he enmeshes Demeter, Kore and Persephone into a triple deity that may represent ultimate reality in the fourth part of this novel. The protagonist chooses not to celebrate the Ambarvalia or Lucius Verus's marriage, but rather spends time talking to Cornelius of the Thundering Legion. Earlier, this work details the contents of the so-called "Golden Book" which is about Cupid and Psyche's love. This work's title character describes four religions which he uses while searching for the "Ideal," two of which are Stoicism and "the religion of Numa." It begins at White-Nights, where the protagonist, an amanuensis to Marcus Aurelius is looking for the two subtitular concepts, "Sensations and Ideas." For 10 points, name this novel set in Rome and conceived as a response to the author's The Renaissance, written by Walter Pater.
Marius the Epicurean
9

132133-)
The only tossups on his author the question writer was able to find in his archive came from 2007 ACF Nationals, and 2004 Folly and Glory Literature Singles. Characters created by this author include Robert Fitz-Ooth, Matilda Fitzwater, and John Figginbotham. One of this author's works features (*) John Wilson Croker, and this man is the author of An Interrupted Letter From Canton. One of his novels is partially titled after a character in Welsh mythology and features (*) Taliesin, while this man featured the character Mr. Cranium in two works. Those works are The Misfortunes of Elphin, Gryll Grange, and Headlong Hall. One of his works served as an inspiration for Percy Shelley to pen A Defence of Poetry. The character Dr. Middleton was based on this man, which is fitting as this man's son-in-law was the author of Modern Love and The Egoist, George Meredith. For 10 points, name this author of Four Ages of Poetry, Crochet Castle, and Nighmare Abbey, a 19th century author that prominently featured satire in his works.
Thomas Love Peacock
8

132147-)
One person imitated in this manner by his twin sister compares his tears to the saltwater of the ocean after he has been stranded and believes that sister dead. This also (*) occurs in a book in which siblings commit incest while pretending to be alien experimenters; the character who performs that action is their younger brother in that book, The Cement Garden. This action is also undertaken by a play-within-a-play character, who is supposedly mauled by a lion and encounters a lover through a wall. FTP, name this activity undertaken by a male rustic in order to play the beautiful Thisbe in A Midsummer Night's Dream, something that happens daily at Oxford bops.
men dressing as women (accept clear knowledge equivalents)
8

132232-)
.  One author with this surname created a man who carries on an affair with a governess, Alice Press, before his second wife, Mirabell Starr, treats him as miserably as he treated his first wife, Margaret. Â That man also wrote about how Peter Westcott's marriage to Clare is ruled by fear. Â The surname of the author of Â four novels about the Herries family and Fortitude, a different author with this surname wrote a drama in which the Edmund and Adeliza fall in love, unaware that Adeliza was the product of Edmund's tryst with his (*) mother, the Countess. Â That author wrote a novel that sees Manfred accidentally stab his daughter, Matilda, after his son Conrad was crushed by a giant helmet. Â For 10 points, give this surname of writers Hugh and Horace, the latter of whom wrote The Castle of Ortanto.
Walpole [or Hugh Walpole; or Horace Walpole]
7

132251-)
One character in this work proclaims "Roll on, ye dark-brown tears; ye bring no more joy on your course" while lamenting the lack of music compared to a thousand years ago. Â A different character in it rejects ships in tribute from Swaran, preferring a desert with "its deer and woods." Â A battle including Cathmor in this work is engulfed in mist and left up to the reader's imagination. Â Containing sections titled (*) "Cath-Loda" and "Temora," Hugh Blair upheld the authenticity of this work against the attacks of Samuel Johnson, who claimed that its author had not used Gaelic manuscripts in its creation. Â Including the brutal Starno and the hero Fingal, part of this work brings Werther and Lotte to tears. Â For 10 points, name this collection of prose poems by James Macpherson named after a legendary poet.
Ossian [accept additional answers like Ossian Poems]
7

132276-)
One of these poems compares one's youthful reflection in a mirror to one's offspring but warns that, if one dies single, one's image will die as well. Â In another of these poems, the speaker claims that "So true a fool is love that... Though you do any thing, he thinks no ill" after the speaker announces that his love makes him "your (*) slave." Â The speaker of a different one of these poems claims that he does not love with any of his senses, but rather with his heart, referring to a woman who was earlier described as having a voice less pleasing than music, treading solely on the ground, and having eyes that are "nothing like the sun." Â That woman, referred to as "my mistress," is known as the Dark Lady. Â For 10 points, name this set of fourteen line poems, one of which compares the Fair Youth to a summer's day.
Shakespeare's Sonnets [prompt on partial answer]
7

132292-)
.  This novel's protagonist is irked when his prospective bride is described as a "dainty rogue of porcelain" by Mrs. Mountstuart, and that protagonist's virtues are summed up by the notion that he has "leg." Â This novel's title is explained when the protagonist tells the story of a man who bemoans his wife's illness because he may never find such an equal servant. Â The main character of this novel travels extensively after he is dumped by (*) Constantia Durham, and that man would prefer Crossjay become a gentleman as opposed to Vernon Whitford, who thinks that Crossjay would be suited for the navy. Â Clara Middleton gets out of her marriage to the title character, who settles for a loveless marriage with Laetitia Dale. Â For 10 points, name this novel about Willoughby Patterne by George Meredith.
The Egoist
7

132318-)
In one poem by this non-Frost author, he compared his feelings to fire and those of his lover to ice, though they do not temper each other's sentiments. Â This author wrote that "whenas Death shall all the world subdue, / Our love shall live, and later life renew" in a poem in which the speaker's fruitless attempts to write his lover's name in sand are compared to his immortal descriptions of her in verse. Â He wrote a poem "made in lieu of many ornaments, / With which my love should duly have been decked" and a poem for the (*) Somerset sisters that repeats "Sweet Thames, run softly, till I end my song." Â He wrote a cycle of poems about his courtship with Elizabeth Boyle using his namesake type of sonnet. Â For 10 points, name this author of "Prothalamion" and Amoretti who also wrote The Faerie Queene.
Edmund Spenser
7

132340-)
One work by this author in written as a manual in which Iris suggests engaging in forced entertainment and writing twice every day to Damon during their time apart. Â This author described a character who is "as much unused to fear, / As he was capable of love" in a poem in which that man, Lysander, finishes too quickly for Cloris. Â This author of The Lover's Watch wrote an epistolary novel about the related lovers Silvia and Philander. Â The prostitute Angellica Bianca opts not to order the shooting of (*) Willmore at the end of one of her plays. Â The poem "The Disappointment" was written by this woman who described Imoinda's death at the hand of her beloved during a slave rebellion in Suriname. Â For 10 points, name this British female restoration author and spy who wrote The Rover and Oroonoko.
Aphra Behn
7

132350-)
This poet compared the labor of his memory lifting "the hidden ore" "from the deep / Gold-mines of thought" to the process of remembering a dream in a poem that describes figures such as Margaret Roper and the "light of ancient France," Joan of Arc. Â Another poem by this author calls "the days that are no more" "So sad, so strange" and opens by invoking the image of "Tears, Idle Tears." Â This author of "A Dream of Fair Women" wrote about a (*) fisherman missing for ten years who doesn't reveal that he has returned to his remarried wife Annie in his poem "Enoch Arden." Â He exhorted "May there be no sadness of farewell, / When I embark" in a poem where he hopes to "see my Pilot face to face." Â For 10 points, name this poet of "Crossing the Bar" and "The Charge of the Light Brigade."
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
7

132382-)
This character's husband insists on serving a group of laborers hard liquor during a party, leaving them unable to work before a coming storm. Â She saves a man from dying of smoke inhalation after she meets that man at a tollbooth, where he had paid her fare and where her one fault was labelled as vanity. Â Her romance with one man includes a beekeeping date and a forest rendezvous where she is dazzled by a sword exercise. Â This character berates her husband for losing money on gambling at the races and for keeping a lock of (*) Fanny Robin's hair. Â After sending him a valentine, Boldwood falls in love with this woman who comes to regret her hasty marriage to Sergeant Troy. Â For 10 points, name this character who eventually marries Gabriel Oak in Thomas Hardy's Far From the Madding Crowd.
Bathsheba Everdene [accept either name]
7

132387-)
One of these works contrasts its main subject's first wife, who is represented in a portrait, and his second wife, who stands in the doorway to the left. Â That work is titled after a dog that appears in front of a fireplace. Â Another of these works shows a man playing a flute next to an old woman in a headdress while the main subject appears as a young boy with his back to the viewer. Â In addition to "My Child-Wife's Old Companion" and "My Musical Breakfast," this set of works includes a depiction of a boy humiliating a substitute teacher. Â Created by Hablot Browne under the name (*) Phiz, it includes such entries as "Steerforth and Mr. Mell" and "I am Hospitably Received by Mr. Peggotty." Â For 10 points, name this set of works meant to accompany a Charles Dickens novel.
illustrations of David Copperfield [accept equivalents; prompt on partial answer]
7

132388-)
In one scene in this play, a woman argues that a group of invaders do not have the support of God because they are trying to speak a foreign language. Â Near the beginning of this play, one character lambasts his steward because the hens aren't laying any eggs, accusing him of theft. Â This play's epilogue, set twenty five years after the main action, sees one man admit that he grew to like warfare, now being known as "the Victorious," while an ostensible villain, John de Stogumber, requests that a statue of this play's title character be erected in England. Â That title character has (*) visions of Saint Catherine and Saint Margaret that lead her to convince Robert de Baudricourt to take her to the Dauphin. Â For 10 points, name this play about a French liberator by George Bernard Shaw.
Saint Joan
7

132422-)
One character in this novel remembers how he got his first job when his application letter was chosen randomly from a sack full of applications. Â Another character in this novel is pestered by her father to donate her inheritance towards establishing a journal with Mr. Quarmby. Â This novel's protagonist helps find work for his sisters Dora and Maud after they move to London from the country. Â One plotline in this novel tells of the financial woes of a couple after the husband is not able to live up to the success of his short story "On Neutral Ground." Â In this book, Marian (*) Yule is spurned by Jasper Milvain in favor of Amy, the widow of Edwin Reardon, because of Amy's sizable fortune. Â For 10 points, name this novel that tells about various types of writers in Victorian England, written by George Gissing.
New Grub Street
7

132443-)
This author wrote about Dona St. Columb's love for the pirate Jean-Benoit AubÃ©ry in Frenchman's Creek and several other works served as the basis for major films, such as one centering on Mary Yellan, Jamaica Inn, and another following the Baxter couple in Venice after the death of their daughter, "Don't Look Now". Dick Young takes drugs administered by his friend Magnus Lane in a late novel by this author, The House on the(*) Strand. Her most famous work, however, features tension between the housekeeper Mrs. Danvers and the new wife of Maximilian de Winter, whose previous wife died at sea under mysterious circumstances and is the titular figure of the novel and a Hitchcock film that won the 1940 Academy Award for Best Picture. For 10 points,, identify this author of the novel Rebecca.
Daphne du Maurier
7

132452-)
In this work, a wager of ten thousand ducats about whether or not one character can seduce the central female is falsely won when that character sneaks into her room, steals her bracelet, and observes a mole on her breast, causing that woman's husband to order her death for infidelity. That central female of this work dresses up as a boy named Fidele and hides in a cave with Belarius and his fake sons, Guiderius and Arviagus, actually(*) long lost sons of the king. After it is revealed that Iachimo had faked his seduction, the reunion at the end of this play between that woman and her husband, Posthumus, inspires the British king to make peace with Rome. For ten points, name this play about the titular king's daughter, Imogen, written by William Shakespeare.
Cymbeline
7

132473-)
Two minor characters from this play are the maidens Mopsa and Dorcas, who each vie for the affections of a young clown. Another minor character speaks in rhyming couplets and announces the passage of sixteen years between the Third and Fourth Acts of this play. In the intervening period, the daughter of the king and queen of Sicily, (*) Perdita, has grown up "on the shores of Bohemia," in the care of an unnamed shepherd. Famous scenes from this play include the final scene, at a chapel in Paulina's house, where a statue of Queen Hermione appears to come to life in the presence of Leontes and Polixenes, and an earlier scene where the courtier Antigonus is killed after fleeing offstage, "pursued by a bear." For ten points, identify this 1623 Shakespeare play.
A Winter's Tale
7

132496-)
The narrator of this novel muses why the generations should overlap, suggesting we should buried as eggs and awake to find sparrows have eaten our parents. In one scene in this novel, schoolboys at Roughborough burn a character in effigy on Guy Fawkes Day after that character reports their misconduct. This novel's protagonist bankrolls Pryer's plan for a "College of Spiritual Pathology," but is arrested for assaulting Miss Maitland after he attempts to acquire converts. This occurs while that protagonist is living at the Ashpit Place run by Miss (*) Jupp. After inheriting his Aunt Althea's fortune, this novel's protagonist becomes a satirical author. This novel is narrated by Edward Overton, who describes the struggles of his godson Ernest as a clergyman and his clashes with his hypocritical parents Christina and Theobald. For 10 points, name this Samuel Butler novel about the Pontifex family.
The Way of All Flesh
7

132505-)
At the beginning of this poem's second part, Death is introduced banging a drum, and announcing that it appears to some people as a sword, and to others as a "flame, fang, or flood." The narrator states that "Hope had grown grey hairs" twelve hours after this poem's central event had occurred," while in the distance, "only rocket and lightship" shone. "Banned by the land of their birth," the central characters of the poem (*) bathe in Christ's "fall-gold mercies," and "breathe in his all-fire glances" before dying. The titular vessel "sailed from Bremen,/ American-outward-bound," before running aground on the Kentish Knock. FTP, name this poem dedicated to the "happy memory" of five Franciscan nuns, written by Gerard Manley Hopkins.
"The Wreck of the Deutschland"
7

132534-)
This man described a journey down "to Hela's drear abode" in the aftermath of Baldr's death in the poem "The Descent of Odin: An Ode." Another work by this poet is addressed to "Daughter of Jove, relentless power" and asks it to teach the speaker "to scan, what others are, to feel, and know myself a man," while another poem depicts the "distant spires" and "antique towers" of a place "where grateful Science still adores Her Henry's holy Shade." This poet of "Ode to Adversity" is best known for a work that imagines "some (*) Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood" or "some mute inglorious Milton" buried in the title location. Â That work ends with the speaker's own epitaph and begins, "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, name this English poet of "Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College" and "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
Thomas Gray
7

132550-)
A beggar introduces the protagonist to the governor's cousin who smuggles wine into the state and a story within this story concerns a man who played Nero in church plays. This work begins and ends with the dentist who cannot leave the country because all his capital is tied up in a gold oven. Â The conditions that serve as a setting for this work spurred the German* Mr Lehr to give away five hundred acres of barren land to placate revolutionaries and the protagonist is instructed to use Morse Code if he ever returns by Coral Fellows. Â The protagonist escapes across the border near the end of this novel, but the half-caste convinces him to return for the gringo before betraying him to the Lieutenant. Â For 10 points, name this Graham Greene novel set in Mexico about an unnamed whiskey priest.
The Power and the Glory
7

132572-)
One conversation in this play relates how a daughter dresses differently during the day and during the evening so as to please her friends and then her father; that father criticizes her for the amount of "superfluous silk" that she wears. Â Their dialogue shifts to discuss the daughter's potential husband, and she insists that reserved men rarely make good husbands. Â One character reminisces about his war memories fighting under the Duke of Marlborough and Eugene of Savoy, though those remembrances are interrupted by requests for punch and for supper; that character is put off by the manner of his guests, who, unbeknownst to him, believe that they are at an inn and not at their destination. Â However, Tony Lumpkin's prank does not stop the courtship of Marlow and Kate Hardcastle. Â For 10 points, name this comic play by Oliver Goldsmith.
She Stoops to Conquer
7

132582-)
One section of this poem imagines if humankind were born to "scorn / Hate, and pride, and fear" and was destined "Not to shed a tear." Â This contrasts with its actual depiction of humankind, which describes its tendency to "pine for what is not." Â This is explained because "Our sincerest laughter / With some pain is fraught" and because "Our sweetest songs are those that tell of saddest thought." Â The middle section of this poem compares the title figure of this poem to such things as a hidden poet, an embowered rose, and a (*) glow-worm, while its ending describes the "harmonious madness" that could flow from the speaker's lips if the title figure would "Teach me half the gladness / That thy brain must know." Â It opens by proclaiming "Hail to thee, blithe spirit!" Â For 10 points, name this Percy Shelley poem addressed to a bird.
"To a Skylark"
7

132589-)
The monastery at Mount Melleray, where the monks sleep in coffins, is discussed in this work. Among its characters are the womanizing Mr. Browne, the drunk Freddy Malins, and the protagonist's wife Gretta, who complains about her husband's forcing her to wear galoshes. During a dance, the protagonist is insultingly called a "West Briton" by Miss Ivors, and when the performance of "The Lass of Aughrim" moves his wife to tears, he discovers that his wife once loved a boy named(*) Michael Furey, who died waiting to see her before she went to Dublin. The protagonist is unsure whether to use a quote by Robert Browning in his speech at an annual Christmas dinner party hosted by his aunts Kate and Julia for fear that he may sound too intelligent or pretentious. For 10 points, name this short story ending in contemplation of falling snow by Gabriel Conroy, the last story in the collection Dubliners by James Joyce.
"The Dead"
7

132624-)
This character is annoyed to learn that his parents have taken in a boarder named Joe. He is used as a political tool by a group including D.B. da Silva, Z. Dolin, and Something Something Rubenstein. He is incensed when his companion makes a dog noise that interrupts a snippet of Friedrich Gitterfenster's opera Das Bettzeug. In a comical scene, this character describes how he is arrested after tripping all over milk bowls that a woman had laid out for her numerous cats. He is beaten feebly by a group of(*) old men reading in a public library after they recognize him as the destroyer of a tome on crystallography. This rival of Billyboy runs from millicents and loves the sight of krovvy. P.R. Deltoid is the "post-corrective adviser" of this droog of Georgie, Pete, and Dim. For 10 points, name this Beethoven lover who undergoes the Ludovico Technique in Burgess's A Clockwork Orange.
Alex DeLarge [accept either]
7

132625-)
The preface to this work notes that "There is no such thing as a moral or an immoral book" and also states that "all art is quite useless." One influential figure gives the main character a "poisonous book" that seems to "trouble the brain" with its sinful nature and he ntakes offense to another influence calling him a silly boy. In this novel, Lord(*) Henry suggests an outing to the theater unaware that the play stars a young girl smitten with the title character. That girl loses her acting abilities upon falling in love and commits suicide after her rejection by him. Sibyl Vane's brother James threatens to kill the main character, who is referred to as "Prince Charming." FTP, identify this Oscar Wilde novel in which the title character kills his friend Basil, and then stabs a painting of himself, thereby committing suicide.
The Picture of Dorian Gray
7

132648-)
In "The Eagle," Tennyson describes this entity as "wrinkled" and writes that it "beneath him crawls." This body appears twice in the title of a novel whose protagonist, a famous actor, encounters his former love Hartley Smith after retiring to the coast. This entity titles a Booker Prize-winning novel about Charles Arrowby, written by Dame Iris Murdoch. At the end of "Fern Hill,"(*) Dylan Thomas says that he "sang in his chains like" this. Matthew Arnold's "Dover Beach" laments the disappearance of the one "of Faith," while it begins by stating that this "is calm to-night." For 10 points, name this body of water, which Captain Nemo travels "20,000 leagues" underneath.
the sea [do not accept anything else]
7

132688-)
Robert Gurik wrote a 1968 version of this play which served as an allegory for the Quebec independence movement. Â The first production of Genesis Repertory Ensemble was this play, set in 1963 Washington and called the "Kennedy [this play]". One famous staging of this play involved a single set whose size and shape were altered by large, abstract screens. That production was Edward Gordon Craig and Constantin Stanislavksi's Moscow Art Theatre production in 1912. A famous Hollywood adaptation of this play earned both a Best Picture and Best Lead Actor Oscar for Laurence Olivier, and that version began with the famously reductive opening, "This is the story of a man who could not make up his mind."  Wikipedia claims the highest-grossing adaptation of this play to date is The Lion King, although more traditoinal versions contain characters like Fortinbras, Rosencrantz, and Guildernstern. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play about a melancholy Dane.
The Tragical History of Hamlet, the Prince of Denmark
9

132710-)
This work was written at the same time as a work by another author that wonders what "unrecorded race" once dwelt in London. This work, which was written under the pseudonym Glirastes, is named for a figure whose (**) passions were read well. Written in competition with Horace Smith, this work includes some lines that were based on a (*) Diodorus Siculus description. This poem contrasts "The hand that mocked them and the heart that fed." This poem, which describes a visage with a "frown and wrinkled lip" and a "sneer of cold command," also includes some words enscribed on a pedestal: "Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!" For 10 points, name this poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
"Ozymandias"
9

132744-)
. Several characters in this poem are asked to "dig/the white-grape vineyard where the oil-press stood" to find a stone "blue as a vein o'er the Madonna's breast." At one point in this poem, the speaker boasts that he will use "choice LatinÂ…Tully's every word," whereas the inferior "Ulpian serves" his rival's "need." The speaker of this poem recalls how he bequeathed his sons "that brave Frascati villa with its bath," which he threatens to "give the Pope." At the beginning of this poem, the title character asks his sons to "draw round my bed," but wonders "is Anselm keeping back?" The dying speaker tries to incite the jealousy of his predecessor, (*) "Old Gandolf," by having the title object made of jasper or lapis lazuli. For 10 points, name this dramatic monologue about a clergyman, by Robert Browning. 
: "The Bishop Orders his Tomb at St. Praxed's Church"
9

132749-)
In the 1989 Allen Ludden at Auburn tournament, the earliest available on the Stanford archive, this is the answer to alphabetically the first packet listed. One literary character with this surname is a used car salesman who puts sawdust in the transmission and is forced to flee the country at the end of the novel he appears in. That family with this surname has no books in the home, only a cookbook and magazines, forcing theirÂ daughter to go the library to get reading material. That daughter with this surname goes to Crunchem Hall for school and is eventually adopted by Miss Honey. Another literary character with this name is working with an unnamed "Patient" in World War II-era England and receivesÂ advice such as providing the patient with female temptation. This is the surname of a young girl who battles Miss Trunchbull, Roald Dahl's Matilda. For 10 points, give this name also held by the C.S. Lewis-created nephew of the demon Screwtape.
Wormwood
9

132751-)
A video game based on this novel features the made-up protagonist "Patrick" and changes the ending to have the villainy being committed by a religious fanatic. A famous Rene Clair film adaptation of this novel changes the ending to have the villain kill himself while muttering "Never trust a woman." Supporting characters in this novel include the butler Rogers and Anthony Marston, a drunken playboy who ran over two children in an accident. The main part of this novel ends after Vera Claythorne hangs herself after shooting soldier of fortune Philip Lombard. In a postscript to this novel, it is revealed that Justice Wargrave was actually the killer, meting out justice for perceived unpunished sins. For 10 points, name this Agatha Christie novel about ten people who are being killed off one by one by the mysterious U.N. Owen, who is inspired by a popular children's rhyme.
And Then There Were None [accept Ten Little Indians or Ten Little Niggers]
9

132778-)
His moral and philosophical works were praised by his peers to the extent that Geoffrey Chaucer dedicated "Troilus and Cressida" to him. His first work, written in French and translated as "The Mirror of Man" (**), was a meditation on sinfulness and the fall of man, later retitled "Speculum Hominis". A more famous (*) work, written in Latin and translated as "The Clamoring Voice", gives historians a contemporary view of the Peasants' Revolt of 1381. His "Tripartite Chronicle" condemned the vices of the royal court, and Richard II convinced him to use English to write his most famous work, which consists of a woman confessing to her priest after complaining to Venus. FTP, name this Middle English poet of the "Lover's Confession".
John Gower
9

132792-)
The young Maya Angelou frequently recited this poem to herself, and Khushwant Singh has written that it expresses "the essence of the message of the Gita" in English. Aung Sang Su Kyi translated this poem into Burmese, and a line from it is printed above the players' entrance at (**) Wimbledon. This poem's title was used ironically for a Lindsay Anderson movie about armed insurrection in a boarding school, and it was once printed on handkerchiefs and other keepsakes, much like (*) "The Absent-Minded Beggar", another poem by its author. It bears a resemblance to the poetry of W.E. Henley, while phrases like 'the unforgiving minute' and 'the common touch' have become commonplace. Name this poem in which, for 10 points, a father promises as a reward for manful stoicism "the Earth and everything that's in it" to his son, a work of Rudyard Kipling.
"IfÂ—"
9

132799-)
P.G. Wodehouse described a very large crash as sounding like this man walking into a sheet of tin. Multiple copies of one of his novels are to be found lying around levels of the game Deus Ex. This man submitted a column to The Times on the subject of 'What's Wrong with the World?' which read, "Dear Sirs, I am." This statement was in accordance with his theology, expounded in such apologetic works as The (**) Everlasting Man. In one novel by this man the deposed President of Nicaragua inspires the King of England to divide the (*) boroughs of London into feudal city-states, while another novel involves a spy-ring that turns out to be entirely composed of secret policemen. This author of The Man Who Was Thursday also wrote "all their wars are merry / and all their songs are sad" of the "Great Gaels of Ireland". Name this British wit who, for 10 points, created the crimebusting Catholic priest Father Brown
(Gilbert Keith) G.K. Chesterton
9

132807-)
16. While staying at Edward Carpenter's house, this man received a touch on the bum from George Merrill which changed his life. He wrote a short story about a bus service to heaven driven by Dante, Shelley and Sir Thomas Browne, and he outlined his convictions in the essay What I Believe. He described himself as "so shy it makes one feel embarrassed" and his piecemeal employment included acting as the librettist of Britten's opera version of (**) Billy Budd. This man made frequent use of the Wiltshire downs as a fictive backdrop for such characters as Stephen Wonham. In another work, the Great North Road connects Mrs (*) Munt and Mr Wilcox. As well as The Longest Journey and Howards End, in another work, Adela Quested and Dr Aziz are connected by the Marabar Caves. For 10 points, name this British author of A Passage to India and A Room With a View.
(Edward Morgan) E.M. Forster
9

132814-)
Max Weber used this word to describe a persistent conflict he identified within the English national self-image between the Puritan stiff upper lip and an England of unreflecting joy in everyday life. Robert Louis Stevenson used this word ironically in the title of a story about some men on a remote (**) Scottish island, and an unusually intelligent character of this name recommends a wise short cut through the Old Forest and packs the Fellowship of the Ring's luggage for them. (*) Shakespeare used it to describe the characters of Mistress Page and Mistress Ford. This word archaically ends 'ie' instead of 'y' on numerous souvenir shop signs and when coupled to "England" alludes to a pastoral utopia. Name this adjective, for 10 points, which also describes a hobbit and some wives of Windsor?
Merry [as in "Merrie England"]
9

132820-)
The speaker of a work by this poet wonders whether "a sea of fire envelope[d] once this silent snow" before musing, "None can replyÂ—all seems eternal now." The addressee of that ode is told that it can "repeal large codes of fraud and woe" in the third section, which opens, "Some say that gleams of a remoter world visit the soul in sleep, that death is slumber." This author of a poem that muses on the "Ravine of Arve" also wrote of a "dome of many-colour'd glass" in a long work about a man whose "fate and fame" echoes "till the (*) Future dares Forget the Past." The lines "the everlasting universe of things flows through the mind" open a poem he wrote in the Vale of Chamouni about the title landform, which is compared to human imagination. An elegiac poem by this author of "Mont Blanc" mourns a man whose soul, "like a star, beacons from the abode where the Eternal are." For10 points, name this English Romantic poet who commemorated his friend John Keats in the poem Adonais. 
Percy Bysshe  Shelley
8

132839-)
This character asks a widow the meaning of the phrase "He that is giddy thinks the world turns round." This character addresses an old man as a "young budding virgin" and then apologizes for "my mistaken eyes, that have been so bedazzled with the sun that everything I look on seemeth green." This character beats a servant who claims that neat's foot and tripe are "choleric" meats and tells her that she "shall have the mustard, or elseÂ…get no beef of (*) Grumio." This character's husband punches the priest at their wedding, prevents her from eating or sleeping, rejects all the clothing made for her, and forces her to agree with him when he says the sun is the moon. In a long speech at the end of the play in which she appears, this woman chastises the wives of Lucentio and Hortensio for not obeying their husbands, despite having earlier proclaimed, "If I be waspish, best beware my sting." For 10 points, name this daughter of Baptista Minola who Petruchio marries in The Taming of the Shrew.
Katherina Minola [or  Kate; or  Katherine; prompt on "Minola" or "the Shrew"]
8

132886-)
At the end of this play, a moonbeam shines upon the title character, and throughout the play, characters talk about the moon as if they are talking about the title character. A monarch in this play is disturbed by various omens, such as the sound of a blackbird's wings beating and his slipping on the blood of a corpse. A character in this play makes references to the Saviour of the World, prompting Tigellinus to speculate whether he is referring to Caesar. A captain known as the "young Syrian" falls in love with the title character and commits suicide upon seeing her (*) pining for another man she vows to kiss. The author of this play was inspired to write it after reading the third of Flaubert's Three Tales. This play, which was originally written in French, was the subject of a series of illustrations by Aubrey Beardsley. For 10 points, name this tragedy by Oscar Wilde in which the title seductress performs the Dance of the Seven Veils and asks her father Herodias for the head of John the Baptist. 
Salome
8

132898-)
This character names her father "The Prince of Darkness" and compares him to a whiskey distiller named Bodger, but later admits that to turn her back on him is to turn her back on life. At the end of the play this character appears in, she runs to her mother and latches onto her skirt, regressing into a childlike mentality. This character's love interest bangs a drum throughout the second act and continues to do so during a joyous march while this character has a breakdown. This character's love interest is variously given the nicknames "Dolly" and "Euripides," and eventually reveals that he is a (*) foundling, qualifying him to inherit a business. A scoundrel named Bill Walker accosts this character's workplace, where he strikes Jenny Hill with his hand. This character is engaged to a scholar of Greek named Adolphus Cusins and is the daughter of an arms manufacturer. For10 points, name this woman who leaves the Salvation Army, the title character of a George Bernard Shaw play.
Major  Barbara Undershaft
8

132958-)
A poem by this man wonders, "Why then, alas, did it not keep it right, returning, to leap into the fire?" about the title entity, who he asks to "be steadfast once, or else at least be true" instead of offering the "sudden loss of thy false feignÃ¨d grace." This poet of "Unstable Dream" used the word "abide" nine times in a sonnet that opens, "I abide and abide and better abide." His first publication was posthumous in Tottel's Miscellany. He also wrote about a lady's necklace engraved with the words "Noli me tangere," indicating she belongs to (*) Caesar, in a poem that laments, "May I by no means my wearied mind draw from the deer, but as she fleeth afore, fainting I follow." That poem may reference a possible affair between Anne Boleyn and this poet, who also claimed that he has "seen them gentle, tame, and meek," about women who "sometime did me seek with naked foot." For 10 points, name this poet of "Whoso List to Hunt" and "They Flee from Me" who introduced the sonnet to England. 
Sir Thomas  Wyatt
8

132991-)
This poet wrote of how "Pasppus' long nose snores harsh as a hautbois, marshy-weak," and how his thoughts "escape like geese till he, their gooseherd, sets up chase." The first of this poet's Nine Bucolic Poems opens, "Turn again, turn again, Goose Clothilda, Goosie Jane." This woman wrote that, "for his sake, more proudly will that Sisyphus the heart of Man Roll the Sun up the steep of heaven" in a poem that addresses the "Black Venus of the Dead," her "Elegy for Dylan Thomas." With her brothers, she edited an anthology titled Wheels. At the end of her best-known poem, the voice of Christ cries out, "Still do I love, still shed my innocent light, my Blood, for thee." In that poem, the title action occurs in "the (*) Field of Blood and "the Potter's Field," "blind as the nineteen hundred and forty nails upon the Cross." For 10 points, name this English poet who wrote the abstract poems for William Walton's FaÃ§ade and imagined World War II as the Crucifixion in "Still Falls the Rain."
Edith  Sitwell
8

132998-)
This poem advises "plunge deeper in the bowering wood Â… as Dido did with gesture stern from her false friend's approach in Hades turn" in order to deal with "this strange disease of modern life." Written as a series of twenty-five ten-line stanzas, it ends with the "young light-hearted Masters of the waves" travelling over "blue Midland watersÂ… betwixt the Syrtes and soft Sicily." The speakers of this poem claim their "insight never has borne fruit in deeds," and they tell the addressee (*) "thou waitest for the spark from heaven." Beginning in the style of a pastoral by declaring "Go, for they call you, Shepherd, from the hill," this poem is prefaced with a note about Joseph Glanville's The Vanity of Dogmatizing, which is the inspiration for this work. For 10 points, identify this Matthew Arnold poem about an Oxford student joining a group of travelling nomads.
"The Scholar-Gipsy"
7

133012-)
The twenty-sixth one of these works tells the addressee about the "Generous Conflict Illusion" which is a game that examines Unselfishness. In the fourteenth one of these writings the addressee is told about the necessity of concealing humility, as the Enemy is the type of figure that wants a certain species to kill their self-love and derive much pleasure from building magnificent cathedrals. First appearing in The Saturday Evening Post in 1942, this set of works references the ongoing (*) Second World War in a section discussing German humans. An addendum to them written by their author later is titled after its main character, who "proposes a toast." The last section of this collection sees the unnamed patient dying and going to heaven. Afterwards, its addressee is condemned to be consumed by his compatriots who all serve Our Father Below. For 10 points, identify this series of epistles written to Wormwood Â– a student of Tempter's Training College, a work of C.S. Lewis.
The Screwtape Letters
7

133035-)
This work's third act concludes with the observation "There's no deep valley but near some great hill" and sees the opening of a letter from the master of horse which implies one character is about to be murdered. This work's final words, spoken by Delio, urge "Let us make noble use of this great ruin;" that scene takes place in an apartment where two characters stab each other to death. This work's title character is strangled by executioners in the fourth act of this play, for which the perpetrator is only rewarded with a pardon by the Cardinal. Act Three begins with one character proposing that (*) Malateste would be a good candidate for marriage, but a refusal quickly turns the focus to the whelp Bosola, who assists the Duke of Calabria Ferdinand in his attempt to identify the actual father of a pair of children produced by his sister and Antonio. For 10 points, identify this Jacobean revenge tragedy by John Webster.
The Duchess of Malfi
7

133052-)
The narrator of this novel tells the life story of Peire Vidal in order to explain his and his wife's fascination with Carcassone. The narrator of this novel also explains the title character's actions by pointing out his sense of honor and that one of his ancestors led Charles I to the scaffold. After spending time in Antibes, the title character of this novel abandons his love for La Dolciquita. During the so-called blissful years, the central characters spend time at a spa in Nauheim. Its narrator constantly explains that his wife, who was born on August 4th, had a weak heart, and that the title character killed himself after Leonora told Nancy Rufford about his scandalous past. Subtitled "a tale of passion," this novel begins with the line "this is the saddest story I have ever heard." For 10 points, identify this novel about Edward Ashburnham narrated by John Dowell, written by Ford Madox Ford.
The Good Soldier
7

133060-)
The speaker of one work by this man is "half-eased" and "steeled by the sense of ire unmerited," and asks "And why unblooms the best hope ever sown?" That poem's speaker bemoans "Crass Casualty obstructs the sun and rain, and dicing Time for gladness casts a moan." In that work by this author, the speaker finds relief in the supposition that "a Powerfuller than I had willed and meted me the tears I shed," for he wishes that it speaks "Know that thy sorrow is my ecstasy." Another religiously-themed poem by this man features God saying "Ha, ha. It will be warmer when I blow the trumpet (if indeed I ever do.)" That poem describes Parson Thirdly, who wished he had stuck to pipes and beer, and describes people thinking it was Judgment Day due to the title noisy phenomenon.  For 10 points, identify this author of "Hap" and "Channel Firing," who also wrote The Return of the Native.
Thomas Hardy
7

133070-)
In his own time, this author was popular for a trilogy of novels about Lionel Hastings. That work is set in the Middle Ages, includes a novel subtitled "A Family Picture," and concludes with What Will He Do with It? An interest in Rosicrucianism and the arcane arts led this author to tell the tale of a man who loses the power of immortality after he falls in love with Viola Pisani in another of his novels. In addition to writing Zanoni, another of this author's works was the literary inspiration for Wagner's opera Rienzi of the Tribunes. Late novels, such as Vril: The Coming Race, are the basis for some of the precepts of theosophy, as is the character of the Vesuvius Witch in his historical romance The Last Days of Pompeii. For 10 points, identify this author of the Victorian era whose novel Paul Clifford contains the infamous line "it was a dark and stormy night."
Edward George Earle Lytton Bulwer-Lytton
7

133097-)
A man from Rhodes whose parents are "base of stock," this man believes that he would turn into a wild beast if Pythagoras's doctrine of metempsychosis were true. Gluttony tells this man that his parents are Martin-Martlemas Beef and Peter Pickle-Herring. He believes that another character is too ugly and commands him to change to look like a "Franciscan Friar," which serves to reinforce his belief in his own dominion. This man speaks "Sweet Analytics, tis thou hast ravished me" before he bids Economy farewell in the opening scene. The words "Homo, Fuge" divinely appear on his arm, and he is denounced by the Oldman after he kisses the "face that launched a thousand ships." This character is served by Wagner and his friends Cornelius and Valdes while engaged in necromancy. His thoughts take the form of a good angel and bad angel above his shoulders talking to him. For 10 points, identify this character who trades his soul to the devil for knowledge, the protagonist of a Marlowe play.
Dr. Faustus
7

133119-)
In one section, the mention of a young man being a gasboy causes this character to feel humiliated because he has been compared to such a ludicrous figure the whole time he has been married. In a speech that this character gives, he believes that the modern generation is hypereducated but that it lacks humanity and hospitality, which leads him to compare three of his city's finest singers to the graces. At the end of the work, he imagines snowflakes falling all across the country he lives in, with special note to them hitting the grave of a man who died after travelling in the rain to see a woman in a convent in Galway. Upon hearing the song "The Lass of Aughrim," his wife begins to tell him about her first love Michael Furey. This character is the main character of a story that follows "Grace" in the collection he appears in, and it is set at the Morkan's Dance. For 10 points, name this protagonist of James Joyce's "The Dead."
Gabriel Conroy (accept either, or both)
7

133124-)
M.P. Sinha argued that this work's author attempted to expand its themes in the inferior poem "Sixteen Dead Men," and its last stanza asserts "We know their dream; enough to know they dreamed and are dead." This poem describes "the horse that comes from the road" as well as "the rider, the birds that range from cloud to tumbling cloud" in another section. Its second stanza opens by describing "that woman's days" which "were spent in ignorant good-will." This poem references the current situation by describing "Polite meaningless words" before the narrator "thought before" that he "had done of a mocking tale or a gibe." Beginning "I have met them at close of day coming with vivid faces," it describes how "MacDonagh and MacBride and Connolly and Pearse" are changed, for "a terrible beauty is born." For 10 points, identify this poem about an Irish uprising by William Butler Yeats.
"Easter 1916"
7

133135-)
In the sequel to this work, an unnamed seer continually fails to balance his sea-borne diet of carbohydrates and protein, which leads him to steal candy bars. Another character in that sequel learns from a horoscope that he is doomed to become President of the United States. Chapter 18 of this work features its protagonist encountering a drowned girl in seaweed in La Jolla, before the author pauses so its protagonist can admire the music of the spheres. In this novel, the narrator tells the story of William, who stabs himself to death and is replaced by Alfred, the new bouncer at a restaurant owned by Dora. Followed up with Sweet Thursday, Hazel helps one of this work's characters collect specimens for the Western Biological Laboratory. Beginning with a description of Lee Chong's grocery, this work recounts Mack and the boys' attempt to throw a party for Doc. For 10 points, name this novel set on the title street, by John Steinbeck.
Cannery Row
7

133138-)
The narrator of this work chronicles a reading of The Catholique's Apology. He also describes his wife Elizabeth, who struggles to paint a picture of Jesus Christ. This work recounts an incident in which a man was scared of a pillow on a chair due to his fear of witchcraft and astrology. In the early sections, each month ends with a description of how many pounds the narrator is worth, as well as what plays the narrator has seen, such as Heraclius and a new performance of Bartholomew Fayre. In this work, Lord Sandwich denounces the ongoing Anglo-Dutch War. Deciphered by the Reverend John Smith, this work was written in shorthand called Tachygraphy and is a primary source on the Great Fire of London. For 10 points, identify this tome produced by a namesake civil servant which chronicled the English Restoration.
The Diary of Samuel Pepys [prompt on partial answer; accept equivalents like Pepys's diary]
7

133157-)
Henry Goodcole wrote a work about the Wonderful Discoverie of a person of this sort, which inspired a play in which a doggie named Tom turns Edmonton native Elizabeth Sawyer into one of these. Reginald Scott wrote a popular work of the 16th century arguing that these people don't exist, which inspired another play about this type of person by Thomas Middleton. That Middleton work, which is titled after a type of these, was incorporated into a play in which the presence of beards confuses another figure who encounters people of this sort at a heath outside of Forres. Those figures of this sort are told "security is mortals' chiefest enemy" by Hecate after they refer to the title character as "Thane of Glamis" and "Thane of Cawdor," and note "fair is foul and foul is fair." For 10 points, identify this sort of woman which in Macbeth is exemplified by the Weird Sisters.
witches (you can accept anything that describes the three witches in Macbeth before mention, like weird sisters)
7

133165-)
This author noted that a "soul aspires above the vulgar flight of low desire" in a poem asking "Is it, in Heaven, a crime to love too well?" Another question posed in this poet's work is "Why Jove's Satellites are less than Jove?" That poem notes the title figure hangs between "with too much knowledge for the Sceptic side" and "with too much weakness for the Stoic's pride." Another work by this man begins with a character announcing the death of Elkannah Settle before a series of coronation games are played that put the author of Shakespeare Restored on the throne. This author of "Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady" wrote the scathing attack Peri Bathos, which also attacked the aforementioned Lewis Theobald, whom this author made an avatar of Dulness. This "Wasp of Twickenham" wrote about the "proper study of mankind" in a poem that attempts to "vindicate the ways of god to man." For 10 points, identify this author of "An Essay on Man" who also wrote the mock epic The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope
7

133175-)
Michael Holroyd, the biographer of this work's author, argued that its author saw the four sections of it as movements to a symphony. Scurrilously attacking all of its subjects, its author admitted that this work's purpose was to explain the nature of international disputes leading to World War I. The first section of this work chronicles a man who "devoured the Apocalypse" at the age of nine after reading Paley's Evidences. The third section attacks a public hero whom the author thought mindlessly instigated a regimen based on the classics and not the hard sciences. Its last section criticizes the central figure for his efforts in dealing with the Mahdi in Sudan. This work's second part attacks the "Lady with the Lamp" for being intolerably cruel. For 10 points, identify this series of biographies of Thomas Arnold, "Chinese" Gordon, Cardinal Manning, and Florence Nightingale, a work of Lytton Strachey.
Eminent Victorians
7

133203-)
This essay singles out the "plaintive in Lamartine," the women of Burne-Jones, and the bitter in Baudelaire as qualities that exemplify the cry of Marsyas. This essay notes that a martyr may appear as a shirt of flame in the eyes of god but to his executioner he is no more than an ox is to a butcher. The author concludes that he is tired of the articulate utterances of men and things, and his goal now is looking for the Mystical in Art, the Mystical in Life, and the Mystical in Nature. This essay praises Walter Pater for his ability to meld the life of pleasure with the life of religion in his novel Marius the Epicurean and argues that its ideas are found in the author's previous The Young King and The Happy Prince. It opens "suffering is one very long moment" and offers a deep connection between the life of Christ and the life of an artist. For 10 points, identify this letter written to Alfred Douglas by Oscar Wilde.
"De Profundis"
7

133228-)
One work by this man begins with banter between the inconsequential Silius and Sibinus before the arrival of Cordus makes them realize that they are being spied on by followers of the title figure, who connives to seduce Livia. Another classically-themed work by this author begins with the ghost of a consul talking to the title character, who then invites Cethegus and Lentulus over to his home where they kill a slave and swear an oath to foment a rebellion by drinking his blood mixed with wine. Another play by this man opens with Knowell bemoaning his son's interest in poetry; that work sees Brainworm's disguises and mischief nearly spoil Bridget's upcoming marriage before Judge Clement forgives all. In addition to Sejanus His Fall and Catiline His Conspiracy, this author wrote about the title character's attempts to dupe Corvino and obtain his wife Celia for himself by pretending to be on his deathbed. For 10 points, identify this author of Volpone.
Ben Jonson
7

133258-)
In the author's preface to the larger work in which these entities appear, it is noted that the "g" in two of them is always hard, and that another one of these entities should be pronounced so as to rhyme with bath. Their creator had trouble recalling the origins of the "tulgey" one.  Later on it is explained that one member of this group is some kind of bellowing and whistling with a sneeze in the middle and that the first one of these to be mentioned means "sometime around four o'clock in the morning." In the work in which these appear, some members of this group are compared to a portmanteau because you pack two meanings into them. Humpty Dumpty explains to the narrator what some of them mean, and this group includes "brillig" and "vorpal." For 10 points, identify this set of vocabulary from a certain poem in Lewis Carroll's Through the Looking Glass.
words from Jabberwocky (accept things like made up words of Lewis Carroll or made up words from Through the Looking Glass, take equivalents)
7

133262-)
This man argued that all writers write out of some combination of sheer egoism, aesthetic enthusiasm, historical impulse, and political purpose, but that his own primary motivation for writing is not to produce a work of art, but because "there is some lie to expose." In another nonfiction work, this author criticized the zoologist Lancelot Hogben's sentence, which begins "Above all, we cannot play ducks and drakes with a native battery of idioms which prescribes egregious collocationsÂ…" before this author advocates using an Anglo-Saxon phrase when that would suffice. Another essay by this thinker notes that the death of a taxi driver with a cleft chin lacks "depth of feeling," and that the crimes perpetrated by Dr. Palmer and Joseph Smith are above it, but Jack the Ripper is in a class of his own. In a politically themed essay, he translated a sentence of Ecclesiastes into modern English of the worst sort. For 10 points, identify this author of "The Decline of the English Murder" and "Politics and the English Language," who also wrote the novels Burmese Days and Animal Farm.
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair]
7

133287-)
The setting for one novel by this man is a castle where two baboons copulate regularly, to which Virginia often quips "well, aren't they human!" That novel's main character is prescribed a diet of carp entrails, which inspires a trip that culminates with the main characters visiting a barely-human sack of skin and bones dressed in the Order of the Garter in an underground estate. Another work by this man re-imagines society as a group of Belial worshippers, whose namesake fourteen day orgies, in which babies are purified by blood, are described by the Arch-Vicaro to Alfred Poole. In the former novel, the main character, a sixty year old Californian, calls on Jeremy Podarge for assistance in learning the secrets of eternal life. This author of After Many a Summer Dies the Swan and Ape and Esence also wrote a novel in which John and Mustapha Mond discuss the nature of society. For 10 points, identify this author of Brave New World.
Aldous Huxley
7

133307-)
Paul De Man argued that this work presents an objectification of the self in its section on the Winander Boy Â– a youth who stood beside glimmering lakes before drowning. In another section of this work, an Arab describes the soothing power of the "shell of poetry" to the narrator. Its speaker claimed to have met Chaucer in its section called "Books," and its author begins by describing his childhood at Grasmere. According to The Fenwick Notes, this work's author bemoaned never finishing this section of a larger work. Its later books are called "Residence in France" and "Imagination and Taste" and memorably provide a description of its author's ascent of Mount Snowdon. Intended to be the first section of The Recluse, it is subtitled "Growth of a Poet's Mind." For 10 points, identify this long autobiographical William Wordsworth poem.
The Prelude
7

133329-)
Prophetically, one of this play's characters warns "Infinite emptiness will be all around you, all the resurrected dead of the ages won't fit in." In one of this play's extended monologues, the speaker notes that on Christmas Eve it was fifty degrees according to the heliometer. That monologue asks "you suppose that there's manna in heaven still for imbeciles like you?" In this one-act play, when one character wakes up he wants a sugar-plum. Another character attempts to balance a three-legged Pomeranian. This play's two main characters discuss an artist in an insane asylum who could only see ash. Outside of this play's setting is waves. When one of its two principal characters asks if the sun is out, the other notes there is only gray, implying that they may be the last of humanity. It is interspersed with the appearance of one of the central character's parents, who live in a pair of dustbins. For 10 points, identify this play, which mostly consists of banter between Hamm and Clov, written by Samuel Beckett.
Endgame or Fin de Partie
7

133345-)
In a section of this novel that is structured as a dictionary, a certain woman is defined alternatively as either "tedious, importunate," or "brave, passionate." While insisting that it is all "pure story," the narrator of this novel reflects on how his wife Ellen cheated on him because she did not love him. The narrator of this work criticizes Enid Starkie's dismissal of how a literary character's eyes change from brown to deep black to blue. In this work, the Edmund Gosse scholar Ed Winterton tells the narrator that he burned a set of lost letters written by the title person to Juliet (*) Herbert, a possible lover. A chapter in this novel is told from the perspective of Louise Colet, and it opens in Rouen with the image of North Africans playing boules under a statue of the title author. This novel follows a search for the animal that inspired the figure of FÃ©licitÃ©'s pet Loulou in "A Simple Heart." For 10 points, name this Julian Barnes novel about Geoffrey Braithwaite, a scholar of the author of Madame Bovary. 
F la ub ert's  P a rro t 
8

133354-)
This work's protagonist likes to imagine that he is the "first man on earth" when he needs motivation in the early morning. The narrator of this work recounts a time he and his cousins ransacked a picnic shortly after expressing his disdain for wars, claiming, "My own war's all that I'll ever be bothered about." A cop in this work is referred to as "old Hitler-face" and routinely pesters this work's protagonist, who collects "a cool five hundred" in insurance after his father (*) dies of throat cancer. This work's narrator is sent to Essex after the money stored in his drainpipe, seventy pounds he had stolen with Mike from a local bakery, washes out in front of a policeman. In this story's final section, the narrator is forced to scrub floors for six months after he allows the boys from Gunthrope to win the All-England Borstal Blue Ribbon Cup. For 10 points, name this story about a disgruntled athlete named Smith, a work by "angry young man" Alan Sillitoe.
"The  Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner"
8

133387-)
.  An author from this family wrote about a boarding school run by Miss Teachum, who instructs her students on the morals found in the stories read to them by Jenny Peace. That author from this family wrote the first full-length English-language children's novel, The Governess, as well as an early sentimental novel called The Adventures of David Simple. Another author from this family created a character who is kidnapped by gypsies as a child but is later recognized by his long-lost father, Mr. Wilson, due to the strawberry-shaped birthmark on his (*) chest. Fanny Goodwill appears in a novel by an author from this family about a footman who spurns the advances of Lady Booby. That man wrote about a character who is allowed by Squire Allworthy to marry Sophia Western, even though he is a foundling. For 10 points, name this English family whose members included Sarah and her brother Henry, who wrote Joseph Andrews and Tom Jones.
Fielding [accept Henry Fielding or Sarah Fielding]
8

133403-)
At one point in this novel, the daughter of the protagonist gets a slap on the wrist from her duenna after she sets one of her classmates on fire. After the engineer Cifuentes is shot at, this novel's protagonist saves the "nude dancer" Teresa from being arrested at the seedy Shanghai Theater. The protagonist of this novel walks in on another character wearing his Uhlan uniform shortly before discovering that character has cracked a code written in a copy of Charles (*) Lamb's Tales from Shakespeare. This novel's protagonist accidentally kills a dog with a poisoned glass of whiskey while speaking at a luncheon for the European Traders association, and wins a checkers drinking game against a man who owns a cigarette case made of human skin, Captain Segura. Hawthorne sends Beatrice Severn to aid the title character of this novel after receiving the schematics for the Atomic Pile. For 10 points, name this novel about James Wormold, a vacuum-salesman-turned-spy, written by Graham Greene. 
Our Man in Havana
8

133426-)
One character in this play sentences a girl to be given a fake scepter and crown, then put into a boat and set adrift with three days' worth of bread and water. Another character in this play attempts to hide the fact that she is a "town lady" by having a maid supply her with French words to use in her conversations at court. In the opening scene, two characters sing, "we loved and we loved, as long as we could," and lament a "foolish" vow. A man who fails to see through his wife's pageboy disguise describes women who "if their necessities and ours were knownÂ…have more need of two than we of one," at the end of this play's (*) "grotto scene." In this play, the fisherman Hermogenes reveals a jewel and a letter from Eudoxia to prove that it is Palmyra, not Leonidas, who is the child of Polydamas, the king of Sicily. For 10 points, name this play in which Palamede and Rhodophil romance each other's wives, a comedy by John Dryden that shares its name with a series by William Hogarth
Marriage Ã  la Mode
8

133436-)
This character is attacked by creatures who climb trees and defecate on him. In the last chapter of the novel he appears in, this character lets his wife dine with him but stuffs his nose with lavender and tobacco leaves to mask her scent. A king tells this man that "the Bulk of your Natives" are "the most pernicious race of little odious vermin that nature ever suffered to crawl upon the surface of the earth." This character's writings are organized by his distant cousin Richard Sympson. After returning (*) home, this man avoids people and spends his time talking to horses in a stable. A Portuguese ship captained by Pedro de Mendez rescues this man after he is kicked out of a nation that enslaves a humanoid race. Earlier in the novel he appears in, this character wakes up on a beach to the discovery that he has been tied down by tiny people. For 10 points, name this character who encounters the Houyhnhnms and the Lilliputians in a Jonathan Swift novel about his Travels.
Lemuel Gulliver [accept either name]
8

133472-)
He defended his critical method in a lecture delivered at Mount Holyoke on "Legitimate Criticism of Poetry," which would be collected in hisÂ 5 Pens in Hand.Â This author co-founded theÂ Seizin PressÂ and the journalÂ EpilogueÂ with a poet who collaborated with him on the novelÂ No Decency Left.Â He rewrote a Dickens novel in hisÂ The Real David Copperfield, while he worked with an expert on Hebrew, Joshua Podro, to write (*)Â Jesus in RomeÂ andÂ The Nazarene Gospel Restored.Â He wrote from the perspective of Mary Powell in the historical novelÂ Wife to Mr. Milton, while his relationship with Laura Riding influenced his autobiographical work about World War I,Â Goodbye to All That.Â For 10 points, name this English author who also wrote a historical novel set in 1st-century Rome,Â I, Claudius.
RobertÂ Graves
9

133473-)
He defended his critical method in a lecture delivered at Mount Holyoke on "Legitimate Criticism of Poetry," which would be collected in hisÂ 5 Pens in Hand.Â This author co-founded theÂ Seizin PressÂ and the journalÂ EpilogueÂ with a poet who collaborated with him on the novelÂ No Decency Left.Â He rewrote a Dickens novel in hisÂ The Real David Copperfield, while he worked with an expert on Hebrew, Joshua Podro, to write (*)Â Jesus in RomeÂ andÂ The Nazarene Gospel Restored.Â He wrote from the perspective of Mary Powell in the historical novelÂ Wife to Mr. Milton, while his relationship with Laura Riding influenced his autobiographical work about World War I,Â Goodbye to All That.Â For 10 points, name this English author who also wrote a historical novel set in 1st-century Rome,Â I, Claudius.
RobertÂ Graves
9

133476-)
1.	The speaker of this poem asks, "Where are the mowers whoÂ…stood with suspended scythe" after finding a boat near the "Wytham flats," and he recalls traveling the track by Childsworth Farm. He talks of "Young Daphnis, with his silver voice" singing in "the hot cornfield of the Phrygian King," and he describes a "sweet city with her dreaming spires" as viewed from Boars Hill. The speaker describes the dissipation of fog as Eve lifting her veil, and his lengthy description of the passing of spring into summer culminates with the line, "TheÂ (*) bloom is gone, and with the bloom go I." He laments that "time, not Corydon, hath conquer'd" this poem's title character, whom he associates with the "signal-elm that looks on Ilsley Downs. The area surrounding Oxford provides this poem's setting, and the poet laments that the place he and Arthur Hugh Clough once often roamed is now only frequented by another of this poet's characters, the Scholar-Gypsy. For ten points name this elegy by Matthew Arnold.
"Thyrsis"
9

133501-)
One character in this work writes a poem called "The Sillabub," which she asks a character who constantly says "deuce take me" to review. An evil plot in this work involves a poorly-sewn sleeve designed to give the protagonist trouble donning a priest's habit, which he is given by Reverend Saygrace. Another character attempts to fall on the protagonist's sword after he rejects her, and his prevention of her suicide leads her to vow to ruin him." Mr. Brisk cuckolds the foppish Lord Frost in this play, while the refusal of Lady Plyant to give her husband an heir leads to her all-too-easy seduction by Ned Careless. The title character frames the protagonist for cuckolding his uncle, who then agrees to disinherit the protagonist and arrange for the title character to marry Lady Plyant's stepdaughter, Cynthia. The plot unravels when Careless reveals that Lady Touchwood's lover is not Mellefont but rather Maskwell, the play's two-faced titular villain. For 10 points name this play by William Congreve.
The Double-Dealer
9

133514-)
Minor characters in this novel include Bondum, a bailiff who extols the virtues of liberty to his prisoners, and Mr. Murphy, an unscrupulous lawyer who is hanged at Tyburn for engaging in a forgery conspiracy with Mr. Robinson. Another character has an affair while in prison with a woman who gives him money to buy back his stolen snuffbox, and he is later challenged to a duel by Colonel Bath over rumors started by that woman, Miss Matthews. The purchase of a dilapidated coach leads to social alienation for the protagonist of this novel, who is saved from date rape at a masquerade ball by Mrs. Bennet, her foster brother Sergeant Atkinson's wife. The protagonist's philandering husband is frequently thrown in debtors' prison for gambling debts but is continually bailed out by Dr. Harrison, who eventually uncovers the plot to disinherit the title character. For ten points name this novel about the handsome wife of Captain William Booth, the final novel by Henry Fielding. 
Amelia 
9

133515-)
According to Jonathan Crewe, the sparrow called "Syr Phip" in one section of this work stands for the poet himself. Penny McCarthy's bookÂ Pseudonymous ShakespeareÂ argues that this work's lines "Listen then, lordings, with good ear to me/ for of my life I must a riddle tell" refer to Chaucer's tale of Sir Thopas, and allude to a forbidden relationship this work hides behind a poetic "screen." The speaker of the second poem in this work compares himself to a "slave-born Muscovite" enchained by love and laments "with a feeling skill, I paint my hell." Its twenty-fourth poem's reference to a (*) "rich foole" and its thirty-seventh poem's repetition of the word "rich" are commonly thought to allude to the identify of its central female character. After being rejected by that character, the speaker of this sonnet sequence exclaims "With how sad steps, O moon, thou climb'st the skies!" Probably about the poet's relationship with Penelope Rich, for 10 points, identify this sequence of one hundred and eight sonnets whose title characters have names meaning "star-lover" and "star," written by Philip Sidney.
Astrophel and Stella
9

133538-)
The protagonist of this novel falls victim to a trap set by Mr. Tapewell, who had been conspiring with Lady Jane Peckover and her nephew, George Poynings. After spending some time at the home of a highway robbery victim he encounters, Mrs. Fitzsimmons, the protagonist swindles a nobleman under the patronage of Princess Olivia into forfeiting his claim to the hand of Countess Ida. Untimely resurrections in this novel include the appearance of the protagonist's rival for the affections of Nora Brady thought to have been killed in a duel, Captain John Quinn, and the return of Lord Bullingdon, who posed an obstacle to the investiture of the protagonist's son Bryan. While serving as a spy for Frederick the Great the protagonist encounters his uncle, the Chevalier Ballybarry, with whom he travels to Dresden. After marrying the widow of Lord Charles the protagonist moves to Ireland, where he wins a seat in parliament, but in the end his profligate spending and spousal abuse land him in Fleet Prison, where he dies of delirium tremens. For 10 points name this novel by William Thackeray.
Barry Lyndon
9

133574-)
This character's blood is characterized as "[full of] semicolons and parentheses" by another character in the work in which he appears. He is flattered to be asked to model for a portrait of Aquinas by the painter Naumann, who really wants to sketch his wife. The small works he dubs his (*) "parerga" are used as an excuse for not completing his magnum opus, a work which his wife agrees to learn Latin and Greek to help him complete. He allows his cousin to live on his estate, Lowick, but he adds a codicil to his will forbidding his wife to marry after his death after he begins to suspect Will Ladislaw of coveting her. Never finishing his "Key to All Mythologies," this is, for 10 points, what pedantic clergyman, the husband of Dorothea Brooke in George Eliot's Middlemarch.
Edward Casaubon [accept either]
9

133580-)
One of this author's characters is the namesake of a John Barth character who suffers from a disease called cosmopsis, the protagonist ofÂ The End of the Road. This author's first play opens in the "gripe's house, in the evening" with Lady Flippant bitchingÂ about her good-for-nothing husbandÂ to Mrs. Joyner, and a better-known work by this author contains the common women Mrs. Flirt and Mrs. Flounce and centers on Mr. (*)Â Gerard's sexual liberation of a cloistered-off 14 year old girl. In addition to writingÂ Love in a WoodÂ and the aforementioned play based on a Calderon work in which Hippolyta and her fiancee escape to France,Â The Gentleman Dancing Master, this author wrote a play in which a page sent by one character turns out to be a woman, causing the protagonist to forget Vernish and Olivia, and a play "cleaned up" by David Garrick in which Harcourt and Alithea end up together while Margery is seduced by a man pretending to be a eunuch, Harry Horner. For 10 points, name this Restoration dramatist ofÂ The Plain DealerÂ andÂ The Country Wife.
WilliamÂ Wycherley
9

133585-)
In one section of this poem, its speaker addresses the title subject as a "messenger of sympathies" and a "wax and wane in lovers' eyes." The names of "Demon, Ghost, and Heaven" remain from a "vain endeavor" in this poem, in which the speaker later recalls "[calling] on poisonous names with which our youth is fed." The speaker urges the title entity to stay "lest the grave should be/like life and fear, a dark reality" in a section urging it to "depart not," and earlier it is suggested that that departure brought "this dim vast vale of tears, vacant and desolate." One stanza of this poem is focused on the speaker'sÂ (*) boyhood pursuit of ghosts and in its end "the day becomes more solemn and serene." In the opening of this poem influenced byÂ Julie,Â or the New Heloise, the titular entityÂ  "visits with inconstant glance/Each human heart and countenance" like "summer winds that creep from flower to flower," and "floats though unseen among us." Opening with the titular "awful shadow of some unseen Power," for 10 points, name this ode by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
"Hymn to Intellectual Beauty"
9

133607-)
In this work, officious street patrollers attempting to catch impious meat-carriers during Lent are duped by a country girl whose basket contains not a lamb's head, but an illegitimate child. One character marries a Welshwoman who supposedly owns 19 mountains at the end of this work. One protagonist's older brother claims to possess miraculous water that will allow another character to beÂ impregnated, but the actual knocking up occurs while that character's husband is taking a prescribed five-hour horse ride.Â  Lady Kix's pregnancy leads to financial problems for the villain of this play, who cuckolds the willing (*)Â Allwit.Â  The protagonists of this work rise from their coffins alive and well to be married at its end, and this play's primary antagonist is the philandering Sir Walter Whorehound.Â  For 10 points, name this play that ends with the marriage of Touchstone and Moll Yellowhammer, a comedy by Thomas Middleton about a girl from a London neighborhood.
AÂ Chaste Maid in Cheapside
9

133628-)
One character in this work compares women to burs, as, "Where their affection throws them, there they'll stick," while another likens a slatternly maid to a walnut tree, claiming she "must be cudgell'd ere she bear good fruit." At one point in this play a ghost appears holding a pot of lilies containing a skull and throws dirt on a man disguised as Mulinassar. In this play's second scene a woman fabricates a dream set in a graveyard to incite her lover to murder her husband, which he does by pushing him off a vaulting-horse. That character is convicted of the murder and sentenced to confinement in a home for reformed prostitutes. A duel inspired by lust forÂ (*) Zanche leads to the murder of Marcello by his brother Flamineo, who is later killed after a fake suicide pact backfires. The primary villain in this play is driven mad by a poisoned helmet, which allows Lodovico to exact revenge on a man who murdered his wife Isabella in order to facilitate his affair with the title character, Vittoria Corombona. For 10 points name this revenge play in which Duke Ursini of Brachiano is murdered, a work by John Webster.
TheÂ White Devil
9

133643-)
This author may have written the lines "Nature Â– Ethereal essence, fire divine, / Pure origin of all that Earth was fair," although it is attributed to James Wills, and that poem is calledÂ The Universe. In one of his plays, Adelmar rescues the title character from a snowstorm, even though earlier he had witnessed him kill Wallenberg's father and had denied him marriage to his daughter Urilda. In his last novel, Sir Redmond Blaney and Jane are married at the title haunted locale,Â Leixlip Castle. In addition toÂ The Milesian ChiefÂ andÂ The Fatal Revenge, this author is best known for a novel that begins with a character being told to (*)Â burn a portrait by his uncle. That character eventually falls into the sea after seeing an apparition, where he is told a tale about Immalee by a man whose family was controlled by evil monks. Eventually, in that novel by this author, the daughter of Don Francisco of Aliaga dies when giving birth to theÂ child of theÂ title character, a man who for two centuries tries to collect souls for Satan. For ten points, name this Irish author ofÂ Melmoth the Wanderer.
CharlesÂ Maturin
9

133654-)
The protagonist of this novel engages in a lengthy discussion of Hatchjaw and Bassett's critiques of a work known asÂ Golden Hours, the author of which posits that sleep is actually just a rapid series of fainting fits. The protagonist of this work is inadvertently rescued by a gang of one-legged brigands led by Martin Finnucane, whose antics give the protagonist time to elude a character who believes people are inappropriately exchanging identities with their bicycles. The protagonist is obsessed with the fictional philosopherÂ de Selby, and his life's goal is to codify de Selby's works. The plot of this novel is driven by the protagonist's desire to recover a cash box he'd stolen from Philip Mathers along with John Divney, who'd betrayed him shortly thereafter. That box eventually turns up in the possession of the title character, Fox, who reveals that the box contains an all-powerful substance called "Omnium" and that the narrator is actually dead. For 10 points name this novel by Flann O'Brien.
TheÂ Third Policeman
9

133688-)
In this character's first appearance, a grey-faced waiter lowers his ear to this man's mouth, which, despite having bothered many other guests, did not phase this man. This man tips his waiters a gold coin each week, and he is described as "an utter sentimentalist" who reads stories in which "typewriter girls married Marquises". This man punches Jimmy's six golden teeth down his throat, and he is implicated in the Kilsyte Case. While serving in Burma, this man had an affair with Mrs. Basil, a fact which Major Basil uses to extort him. One of this man's lovers commits suicide with a (*) bottle of prussic acid, while another lover of his, Nancy Rufford, goes insane after hearing of his death. Â His longtime mistress feigned a heart condition to avoid sex with her husband, a friend of his named John Dowell. For ten points, name this philandering husband of Leonora and lover of Florence who appears in a work by Ford Madox Ford as the titular "good soldier."
EdwardÂ Ashburnham [accept The good soldier until mentioned]
9

133726-)
One character in this novel tricks the protagonist into meeting Carola Grandison by telling him his father has apoplexy. The protagonist of this novel is horsewhipped by Giles Blaize for shooting a pheasant on his property, after which the protagonist bribes Tom Bakewell to burn down Blaize's hayricks. The protagonist's love interest is sent off to school to separate the couple; they eventually marry, but he leaves her and their unborn child, and she later dies of shock and brain fever when her husband is wounded in a duel with the man who tried to seduce her, Lord Mountfalcon. The protagonist's cousin Clare is in love with him and dies wearing his wedding ring, which he had presumed lost.Â  The protagonist of this work grows up with Ripton Thompson under the care of Adrian Harley, who has been instructed to sequester the boy from society, but eventually the plan fails and he falls in love with Lucy Desborough. For ten points name this tragicomic novel in which Sir Austin attempts to prohibit his son from having sex until age 25, a novel by George Meredith. 
The Ordeal of Richard Feverel
9

133749-)
Minor characters in this work include the bothersome children Violet and Roger Antrim and the Carringtons, whose parties the protagonist is forced to attend.Â  The protagonist discusses the fate of Arabella and Polinska with the author Valerie Seymour, to whom she is introduced by the playwright Jonathan Brockett. As a child, the protagonist names her pony after a maid who is fired after being caught hooking up in the garden shed, Collins, and she later becomes a rival of the Canadian Martin Hallam. Another character in this work has a secret collection of works by Kraft-Ebbing, which is found by the protagonist after a branch falls and kills that character. During her time at Morton Hall the protagonist meets the slatternly Angela Crossby, who betrays her by sharing a letter she wrote with her mother Anna. Later, while serving in the French Ambulance Corps, the protagonist meets and falls in love with Mary Llewellyn, whose departure at the end leads her to demand, "Give us also the right to our existence!" Stephen Gordon is the homosexual protagonist of, for ten points, what best-known novel by Radclyffe Hall?Â 
The Well of Loneliness 
9

133775-)
One character in this work keeps a copy of Marital Relational Psychology in his desk, and that character murders his mistress with a corkscrew. The drunken Nelly Mahone repeatedly chastizes the protagonist of this work, who is stabbed near the eye while fighiting in an ancient tunnel found under a police station. Miss Cheeseman appoints the protagonist to ghost write her autobiography, and the protagonist first works under Mr Durce at Meadows, Meade &amp; Grindley. The protagonist of this work encourages typewriters working under Mrs. Coverdale to take Mondays off, repeatedly points out the horn-like bumps on his head, and considers his fear of illnesses to be his "fatal flaw." The protagonist's antics drive a wedge in the relationship between Dixie Morse and her fiance Humprey Place, who finally get married as the Scotch protagonist leaves the titular town. For 10 points, identify this novel in which the devilish Dougal Douglas disrupts the quiet life of the title town, a work by Muriel Spark.
The Ballad of Peckham Rye
9

133996-)
Minor characters in this novel include a stablehand named Ben and an American pilot named Mrs. Rattery.Â  One comical scene sees the main character masquerade at a seaside resort with a woman whom he is paying to act as his mistress and her child.Â  The main female character impulsively thanks god when she realizes that it is her son who has died and not her lover because they both have the same first name.Â  The main character, who treasures his (*) family home that features rooms named after characters from Tennyson, Hetton Abbey, ends up joining the expedition of Dr. Messinger after he realizes his wife is having an affair with John Beaver; the expedition gets lost, though, and he is forced to live with Mr. Todd and read him Dickens incessantly.Â  For 10 points, name this novel about Brenda and Tony Last, a work of Evelyn Waugh.
A Handful of Dust
9

134037-)
One character in this novel learns the history of the son of Margaret Devereux from Lord Fermor, Â and that character's wife Victoria eventually leaves him for a pianist. The protagonist of this novel finds himself personally identifying with a performance of Tannhauser. Also featuring a scene at an opium den with the ruined Adrian Singleton, this novel's Â protagonist tells an (*) actress that his name is"Prince Charming" although she performs poorly in Romeo and Juliet.Â  After rejecting that character, Sibyl Vane, the protagonist sinks deeper into the life of sin he had been led into by Lord Henry Wotton.Â  For 10 points, name this Oscar Wilde novel about a portrait that ages instead of its subject. 
The Picture of Dorian Gray
9

134048-)
One work of his ends with the Lauranian navy demanding the surrender of the titular rebel leader Savrola.Â  In one book, he told the story of the uprising of the Mahdi in the Sudan, while in another work he recounted his experiences as part of a relief force that was dispatched to help William Meiklejohn endure the siege of Saidullah following an uprising caused by the Durand Line.Â  This author of The River War and (*) The Story of the Malakand Field Force also wrote a biography of the Duke of Marlborough and While England Sleeps, which was critical of appeasement.Â  He gave an account of his homeland from the time of Caesar's invasion through World War One in his A History of the English-speaking Peoples. Â For 10 points, name this British recipient of the 1953 Noble Prize for LiteratureÂ who wroteÂ The Second World War and who served as prime minister during that conflict.
Winston Spencer Churchill
9

134075-)
This author wrote a posthumously published response to Stephen Gosson's The School of Abuse in which he postulated the fore-conceit as the creative origin of poetry and he also wrote a tract writtenÂ  for his sister, Mary Herbert, the Countess of Pembroke, in which Musidorus and Pyrocles woo Pamela and Philoclea.Â  This author addressed a "certain knot of peace" as a "balm of woe" and the "prisoner's release" in his thirty-ninth sonnet, while he asked "may it be that even in (*) heavenly place / That busy archer his sharp arrows tries" in his thirty-first sonnet.Â  Those poems, "Come, Sleep!" and "With How Sad Steps, O Moon," are part of a sequence of 108 sonnets and 11 songs that comprise his best known work.Â  For 10 points, name this author of An Apology for Poetry, Arcadia, and Astrophel and Stella.
Philip Sidney
9

134102-)
In one scene, the protagonist presents a poorly-cured, stinking leopard skin to his love interest, an act which only frustrates his courtship of that character. The conclusion sees the antagonist die of apoplexy before he is able to finish building any pagodas that he believes cleanse him of his sins, which include the rape of numerous village girls. Throughout the novel, the protagonist makes an effort to stand to the left side of others due to a blue birthmark on his face, and he is repeatedly referred to as pukka sahib by a man Ellis refers to as Dr. (*) Very-Smelly.Â  After a brief episode with Lieutenant Verrall, Elizabeth briefly returns to Flory before leaving him for good, an act which results in Flory's suicide and U Po Kyin's successful election to the club. For 10 points, name this first novel by George Orwell, a pessimistic commentary of imperialism in British India during the interwar period.
Burmese Days
9

134127-)
In one scene of this play, a character compares the emptiness of a maid's hands to Scotland, compares her smell to the bogs of Ireland, and "did not look so low" to see her "Netherlands" on her globe-shaped body.Â  That encounter with an ugly maid arose after the character shooed away a group of partiers Â– which included Angelo and Balthazar Â– from the house he was staying in, even though the house belonged to one of the partiers.Â  That partier's wife, (*) Adriana, thought she had let in her husband earlier, but it was really his long-lost brother making a short visit.Â  Opening with AegeonÂ  talking about having twin sons and twin servants, Antipholus and Dromio respectively, for 10 points, name this play about two pairs of twins from Syracuse and Ephesus, written by William Shakespeare.
The Comedy of Errors
9

134173-)
This play's first act sees a visit from the Duchess of Berwick and a scene in which the main character discovers her husband's second bank book.Â  The main antagonist laments "A moment may ruin a life.Â  Who knows that better than I?" as she attempts to keep her illegitimate daughter's marriage intact despite the fact that the antagonist has been blackmailing her daughter's husband. That antagonist, who is immediately beloved by Lord Augustus, is (*) Mrs. Erlynne, who later claims that she accidentally took the title object from its rightful owner to allow that owner to slip out of a room unnoticed; this prevents her daughter's husband from discovering her unfaithful feelings towards Lord Darlington.Â  For 10 points, name this 4 act comedy by Oscar Wilde:
Lady Windermere's Fan
9

134226-)
This author's only play is titled after a friend of Aspasia who converts to Islam to gain favor with a sultan named Mahomet, and he also wrote an allegorical tale in which Pekuah wants to live in a convent after she accompanies the title character and his advisor, Imlac, on a quest for happiness.Â  "When Statutes glean the Refuse of the Sword, / How much more safe the Vassal than the Lord" is a line from one of his poems whose second section tells of how, "With chearful Wisdom and instructive Mirth," Democritus will rise once more from the Earth.Â  That poem, a reworking of Juvenal's Tenth Satire, is titled "The (*) Vanity of Human Wishes."Â  Also the author of a noted dictionary, he wrote a travelogue detailing his trip to the Scottish isles with a friend who would write his biography.Â  For 10 points, name this author whose "Life" was written about by James Boswell.
Samuel Johnson 
9

134236-)
In one poem, this man wrote that "Where no sea runs, the waters of the heart/push in their tides" and "Light breaks where no sun shines." This poet invoked the "mankind making/bird beast and flower/fathering and all humbling darkness" in a poem that ends "After the first death, there is no other." In another work, this poet wrote "Though they go mad, they shall be sane/though they sink through the sea they shall rise again." This poet of "A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London"Â  "sang in [his] chains like the sea" when he was (*) "young and easy under the apple boughs." This poet's most famous work states that "blind eyes could blaze like meteors" and exhorts the reader to "rage, rage, against the dying of the light." For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of "Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night."
Dylan Thomas
9

134263-)
At the end of this work, one character tells another that she wants him to be true to her because she is his dearest comrade. At the end of this work, Bessie is shot twice when she pushes another character away from a window. In act II of this play, the Covey claims that the only freedom "for the working man" is "control of the means of production," and at the end of the play the Covey, Fluther, Peter (*) Flynn, and Captain Brennan are rounded up by Corporal Stoddart, who is looking for a sniper. Children who dies in this play include Mollser Gogan and the stillborn baby of Nora. For 10 points, identify this Sean O'Casey play about the Clitheroe family set during the Easter Rebellion of 1916, which takes its name from the emblem on the flag of the Irish Citizen Army.
The Plough and the Stars
9

134646-)
Notable vignettes from this book include the author's disgust when the proprietor of his boardinghouse empties a chamberpot with his fingers on the inside of the rim. This book compares the view that the modern economy has made the population soft by supplying material comfort to "solemnly sitting down to eat your dinner with stone implements," an argument that was repeated by John Holbo in his essay on Donner Party Conservatism. In the earliest known instance of concern-trolling, the author lambasts his political associates for supporting ancillary causes like vegetarianism and family planning and announces that no member of the (*) working class could possibly be convinced by self-styled socialists who do ridiculous things like go hiking, commentary that was explicitly disowned by this book's publisher Victor Gollancz in a message to the Left Book Club. For 10 points, name this two-part book: an extended investigation into the condition of the working class in Northern England followed by controversial rumination over the political failure of socialism, by George Orwell.
The Road to Wigan Pier 
9

134651-)
The depiction of one of their main characters in a tavern in the 410th one of these works pissed off the other contributor so much that he swore he would kill that character himself. In The Structural Transformation of the Public Sphere, Habermas notes that letters to the authors of these works were collected in a lion's head on the wall of a coffee house. The fifth of these works makes fun of modern Italian poetry and the use of props like flocks of sparrows in opera productions, and also claims that (*) Handel is a worse musician than the Pied Piper. The title character of these essays, who is so taciturn that he once spoke fewer than one hundred words over the span of eight years, hangs out with characters like the gallant Will Honeycomb and the humorous Sir Roger de Coverley. The creators of this journal had earlier, under the Jonathan Swift-invented pseudonym Isaac Bickerstaff, created The Tatler. For 10 points, name this early eighteenth century London publication, produced by Richard Steele and Joseph Addison.
The Spectator papers 
9

134653-)
The speaker of one of this author's poems claims that "all is turned, thorough my gentleness, into a strange fashion of forsaking" a woman who asked him "dear heart, how like you this?" while kissing him. The speaker of another of his poems is so tired that he is "of them that furthest come behind" and says that "in a net I seek to hold the wind." That poem by this author ends by describing the phrase "Noli me tangere, for Caesar's I am, and wild for to hold, though I seem tame" written around a woman's neck. His works, along with those of the Earl of (*) Surrey, were first published in Tottel's Miscellany. Several of his poems probably refer to his love for Anne Boleyn. For 10 points, name this Tudor poet and translator of Petrarch who introduced the sonnet to English with works like "They flee from me, that sometimes did seek" and "Whoso list to hunt, I know where is an hind!"
Sir Thomas Wyatt 
9

134656-)
WARNING: TRANSLATOR AND WORK REQUIREDThis prose work contrasts with an earlier-published verse translation by including the phrase "great gobbets" rather than "lumps" and reporting that a man was eaten entirely "including hands and feet," rather than the more general and less evocative "hand and foot." This work was published 88 years after it was completed. Its translator and author were likely from the same region. This translator of this work argued that its mingling of (*) time-frames was an intentional commentary on its main theme: the inevitability of death, and that its ambiguous religious setting was a consequence of ongoing Christianization when it was written as opposed to when it is set. Those statements about it appear in this translator's essay on this work subtitled "The Monsters and the Critics." For 10 points, name this recently-published translation of an Old English epic poem about a Geatish warrior-king by the author of Lord of the Rings.
J[ohn] R[onald] R[euel] Tolkien's translation of Beowulf [prompt for one underlined part if the other is absent, but people need to give both to get points] 
9

134925-)
The speaker of one poem says of this creature, "maybe it throbs in a myrtle's green," and instructs the faeries to "go and find / That tiny pinch of priceless dust" that "inspired a bard to win / Ecstatic heights in thought and rhyme." That poem is titled for this creature, begins "somewhere afield here something lies / In Earth's oblivious eyeless trust," and is by Thomas Hardy. Another poem contains of a list of similes comparing this creature to a "rose embower'd / In its own green leaves," a (*) "glow-worm golden / In a dell of dew," and to a "high-born maiden / In a palace tower." This creature is asked to "teach me half the gladness / that thy brain must know" in that poem, in which it travels "higher still and higher / From the earth," producing "profuse strains of unpremeditated art." For 10 points, name this creature that is told "Hail to thee, blithe spirit" in a poem by Shelley.
Shelley's skylark [both of the Shelley poems are about the same skylark]
9

134930-)
This poem contains the maxim "He that forbears / To suit and serve his need, Deserves his load." This poem's speaker asks "What have I lost with cordial fruit?," realizing that "there was wine / Before my sighs did dry it; there was corn / Before my tears did drown it." Its speaker deliriously rambles that "my lines and life are free, free as the road, Loose as the wind, as large as store," then grows self-conscious as he "raved and grew more fierce and wild." The speaker ends this poem by saying, (*) "methought I heard one calling, Child! And I replied My Lord," dissipating the palpable fury he displays at this poem's beginning by pounding the altar and declaring "No more; I will abroad!" Â For 10 points, name this metaphysical poem, which likens the constraints of the priestly vocation to the title shackles worn by a slave, written by George Herbert.
"The Collar"
9

134937-)
A woman in a novel by this author is asked to list the ways that a man is perfect, but she can only come up with "you are a perfect judge of sauces," and is revealed to be the biological daughter of an inmate at a French prison who traded identities with Maurice Christian. An employer hires a man on the condition that he practice his handwriting every day in another of this author's novels, whose prelude intimates that its protagonist will end up just like (*) Saint Theresa. The title character of one of her novels is wrongly accused of killing a constable at a riot that breaks out at an election lost by Harold Transome. Mr. Featherstone's early death leads to the ruination of Fred Vincy, and the protagonist isn't allowed to help with The Key to All Mythologies, in another novel by this author. For 10 points, name this author of Felix Holt and Middlemarch.
George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans]
9

134940-)
A section of this poem compares sleep to being "blinded alike from sunshine and from rain, as though a rose should shut, and be a bud again". A character in this poem is encouraged to "flit like a ghost away" at the sight of "dwarfish Hildebrand" and the gray-haired Lord Maurice. That character in this poem brings forth "a heap of candied apple, quince, and plum, and gourd" from the (*) closet in which he was hiding to interrupt another character's "azure-lidded sleep". The deaths of old Angela and the Beadsman are related in the final stanza of this poem, which is based on a superstition by which girls could see their future husband in a dream. For 10 points, name this John Keats poem in which Madeline and Porphyro elope on the title night.
"The Eve of St. Agnes"
9

134942-)
This character claims that a shepherd is "damned like an ill-roasted egg, all on one side" for having never been to court. Later, he orders another character to "abandon, -- which is in the vulgar leave, -- the society, -- which in the boorish is company, -- of this female, -- which in the common is woman", before threatening to kill William in "a hundred and fifty ways". This character engages the services of Sir Oliver Martext, but is convinced that that man is unworthy of overseeing his marriage by (*) Jaques. Eventually, he marries the simpleminded Audrey after leaving Duke Frederick's court and following Celia into the Forest of Arden. For 10 points, identify this fool from As You Like It, named for his ability to reveal Rosalind's purity.
Touchstone
9

134955-)
A collection of poetry named for this character includes a poem that begins "Let the place of the solitaires / Be a place of perpetual undulation." "Fabliau of Florida" opens that series of poems named for this character, which appeared in 1919 in Poetry, also contains "The Anecdote of the Jar", and was the first published collection of poetry by Wallace Stevens. This character himself is memorably described as " a direction-post, which is always telling the way to a place, and never goes there." This character's daughters (*) Charity and Mercy are often referred to as "Cherry and Merry". He once taught both John Westlock and his own servant Tom Pinch, though they both eventually become disillusioned with the fact that despite claiming to be an architect, he never designed or built anything. For 10 points, name this character from Dickens's Martin Chuzzlewit whose name has become a byword for hypocrisy.
Seth Pecksniff [accept Pecksniffiana]
9

134956-)
In January 2013, a translation of the first third of this book by Dai Congrong became a surprise bestseller in China. In a letter to Harriet Weaver, this novel's author explained the system of "sigla" he developed while writing it. Â Its supposed use as the basis for Thornton Wilder's The Skin of Our Teeth analyzed in an article by Henry Morton Robinson and Joseph (*) Campbell, who later collaborated on a book offering A Skeleton Key to it. Samuel Beckett wrote an essay about this novel's use of the ideas presented in Vico's Scienza Nuova. Its second book mostly concerns the children Issy, Shem the Penman, and Shaun the Post, the last of whom spends its third book trying to deliver a letter written by Anna Livia Plurabelle, or ALP, to exonerate her husband HCE. For 10 points, name this dream-narrative novel which begins and ends in the middle of the same sentence, the final published work of James Joyce.
Finnegans Wake
9

134957-)
In one work, this poet described God pouring a "glass of blessings" onto man, retaining only Rest at the bottom. The speaker of another of his poems "rears" a certain broken object "made of a heart and cemented with tears". This author of "The (*) Pulley" gave the advice "If thou do ill; the joy fades, not the pains; if well; the pain doth fade, the joy remains" at the end of "The Church-Porch", which opens a collection of 160 of his "Sacred Poems and Private Ejaculations". For 10 points, name this consumptive metaphysical poet who included the pattern poems "The Altar" and "Easter Wings" in his collection The Temple.
George Herbert
9

134961-)
The protagonist of this book nurses her husband for years after he breaks his head falling down the stairs, while their neighbors plan to hang her if he dies. The beginning of this book recounts the traumatic birth of the protagonist's first child, after which she is rebuked by a priest at confession and subsequently tormented by devils. The title woman of this book receives the blessing of Julian of Norwich, and after negotiating a vow of celibacy with her husband, she becomes Jesus's (*) lover. For 10 points, name this spiritual autobiography dictated by an illiterate woman in the 1430s, which is recognized as the first autobiography written in English.
The Book of Margery Kempe
9

134962-)
A soliloquy delivered by this character posits "one thought, one grace, one wonder, at the least, which into words no virtue can digest." In that soliloquy, he characterizes himself as "conceiving and subduing both that which hath stooped the chiefest of the gods" and asks, "What is beauty, saith my sufferings, then?" After a battle, this character stabs his third son for staying in his tent instead of fighting. This character asks, "And shall I die, and this unconquered?" when shown a map on his deathbed, and prior to his rise to power, his eloquence converts (*) Theridamas to his cause. This character marries Zenocrate and imprisons Zabina and Bajazeth in a cage. For 10 points, name this Turkic warlord depicted in two plays by Christopher Marlowe.
Tamburlaine the Great [do not accept "Timur," "Tamerlane," or other wrong answers]
9

134968-)
This poem relates how "light each summer thronged the glass" and "up the paths the endless altered people came." Images in this poem include "a trough of smoke in slow suspended skeins," and the speaker refers to some little dogs as a "faint hint of the absurd." The speaker says of this poem's subjects, "they would not think to (*) lie so long," and describes how "helpless in the hollow of an unarmorial ageÂ…only an attitude remains." This poem notes that "time has transfigured them into untruth" in its subject's embodiment of "our almost-instinct almost true: what will survive of us is love." For 10 points, name this poem by Philip Larkin titled for a place of burial.
"An Arundel Tomb"
9

134972-)
One of these poems addresses a man whose "great nameÂ…gives tremendous birth to a loud hymn, that sounds far, far away to where the great God lives for evermore" and is "a full harvest whence to reap high feeling." Another of these poems begins by declaring, "The poetry of earth is never dead." One of these poems describes "the moving waters at their priestlike task of pure ablution round earth's human shores." The speaker of that poem states that he is "still (*) unchangeable, cheek-pillowed on my love's white ripening breast." Some of these poems, which include "On the Grasshopper and Cricket," feature such opening lines as "Much have I travelled in the realms of gold" and "Bright star! would I were steadfast as thou art!" For 10 points, name these fourteen-line poems by a Romantic poet that include "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer."
John Keats's sonnets [or obvious equivalents; prompt for type of poem on answers like John Keats's poems; prompt for author on sonnets]
9

134973-)
This character observes that he may "be a sort of success as a frightful example of what not to do, and so illustrate a moral story," in a speech applauded by laborers while waiting in the rain for a procession. He determines he is unworthy of suicide after he jumps up and down on a frozen pond and fails to break the ice. He is fired from one job after reciting the Nicene Creed in Latin in a bar, and while he is dying, his wife flirts with a (*) quack doctor after slipping him some of his own love potion. After the hanging of this character's children by his disturbed first son, his lover returns to the schoolmaster Richard Phillotson. This stonemason marries Arabella Donn and becomes the lover of Sue Bridehead. For 10 points, name this title character of the final novel by Thomas Hardy.
Jude Fawley [or Jude Fawley; or Jude the Obscure]
9

134978-)
This character concludes a scene with the couplet, "Make all our trumpets speak, give them all breath, those clamorous harbingers of blood and death." In response to his question, he is told that "nose-painting, sleep, and urine" are the three things that drink especially provokes. Later in that scene, he instructs his companion to "destroy your sight with a new Gorgon." This character says, "I cannot but remember such things were that were most precious to me" and asks "What, (*) all my pretty chickens and their dam at one fell swoop?" upon learning of the murder of his wife and children. He reveals that he was "from his mother's womb untimely ripped" prior to avenging himself on the murderer of Duncan. For 10 points, name this Thane of Fife who slays Macbeth.
Macduff [prompt on the Thane of Fife before it is read]
9

134981-)
This poem refers to "hours, days, months" as the "rags of time." The phrase "All states" that appears in its third and final stanza may be a pun for sexual arousal. The speaker of this poem boasts that "All honour's mimic, all wealth alchemy" compared to what he has, and claims that the "Indias of spice and mine" all lay in one place. This poem claims that "the world's contracted thus" that "this bed" is the addressee's center and "these walls" their "sphere." This poem suggests that the addressee "Go tell court-huntsmen that the king will ride" or "call country ants to harvest offices" rather than bother the speaker. This poem rebukes the "busy old fool, unruly sun" for interrupting the time its speaker can spend with his lover. For 10 points, name this aubade by John Donne.
"The Sun Rising"
9

134983-)
Description acceptable. One of these people scrawled the phrase "Remember me!" inside a William Beckford novel, eliciting the response "Till Lethe quench life's burning stream." Another of these people unsuccessfully tried to kidnap her daughter Allegra from the convent where Allegra later died of typhus. The former of these people wrote a Gothic roman a clef, Glenarvon, whose protagonist inspired John Polidori's character of Lord Ruthven. (*) Augusta Leigh was rumored to be one of these people, partly because she named her daughter Medora, after a character in The Corsair. They included Teresa Guiccioli, the subject of an unfinished David Lurie opera, and Caroline Lamb, who originated the phrase "mad, bad, and dangerous to know." For 10 points, identify these women who slept with the promiscuous poet of Don Juan.
Lord Byron's mistresses [accept equivalents like lover for "mistress"]
9

134989-)
In a passage from one of this author's famous stories, the protagonist watches "a dozen husbands impale a dozen brides" while having sex with the Marquis in a room full of mirrors. Desiderio saves the Minister of Determination from the title character's "shock troops of the irreal" in this author's fantasy novel, The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffmann. Another of her books is about Lizzie Fevvers, a woman born out of an egg who uses her wings to become a trapeze artist. This author of Nights at the Circus had the heroine seduce a wolf in her (*) grandmother's bed in a version of Little Red Riding Hood, and had the bride's mother save her from her murderous husband in a version of the Bluebeard myth. For 10 points, name this English writer who retold folktales as feminist stories like "The Bloody Chamber."
Angela Carter
9

134996-)
17. Two characters in this play exchange their versions of recent political events, with one displaying a letter showing an offer of an alliance from a man who "Plucked the green fruit, ere the first blush of red." This play contains a preface to the reader asking forgiveness for its relatively unspectacular staging and a dedication to Thomas Osborne, an anti-Catholic leader at court who is analogized to this play's central male character. A character in this play is given a bleeding ruby bracelet that is ferried by a eunuch. At the start of this play, mysterious happenings such as "forsaken dolphins with their broad tails" and a ghost bursting out of a tomb are discussed in a list of "portents of prodigies" discussed by the priests Myrsis and (*) Serapion. A character in this play, who was once accused of having a "warmth" for the main female character, is recalled to reconcile, after which Dolabella plots with a man who later kills himself, Ventidius, to accomplish a political seduction. Unusually, this play depicts the major female character using a dagger, rather than a snake, to kill herself, even though it is based on the final scenes of Shakespeare's treatment of the same thing. For 10 points, name this play by John Dryden about the final hours of Antony and Cleopatra.
All For Love 
9

134999-)
This poem compares its setting to a desert where "the eagle brings some hunter's bone" and asks, "Is this the scene / where the old Earthquake-daemon taught her young / Ruin?" The second stanza of this poem concludes by imagining the "still cave of the witch Poesy" where the speaker's mind seeks "Ghosts of all things that are." This poem claims that its addressee has "a voice" to "repeal / Large codes of fraud and woe" and possesses "the secret strength of things" which "to the infinite dome / of Heaven is as a law." This poem was originally published as the culminating piece in History of a Six Weeks' Tour, a collaborative journal the poet wrote with his wife. Beginning "The (*) everlasting universe of things / flows through the mind, and rolls its rapid waves," this poem often apostrophizes the River Arve and consists of lines written in the Vale of Chamounix on a visit to its title landmark. For 10 points, name this Percy Shelley poem ostensibly about a mountain in the Alps.
"Mont Blanc"
9

135004-)
Near the end of this story, a group of men accidentally break a vase while carrying an object into a parlor. In this story, various characters suggest searching in The Prince of Wales pub, in response to the absence of another character. At one point in this story, the protagonist repeatedly asks her mother-in-law not to wail and moan so loudly, as she is in danger of (*) waking the sleeping children upstairs. The protagonist of this story mentions experiencing the title sensation when she was married, when her daughter Annie was born, and the first time they brought her husband home drunk. For 10 points, name this story in which the death of coal miner Walter Bates is reported to his wife Elizabeth while she smells the title floral scent, a story by D.H. Lawrence. Â 
"Odour of Chrysanthemums" [the correct title for this story has no "the" at the beginning, but this mistake is so ubiquitous that you should be generous, and allow this, in the spirit of descriptivism] 
9

135010-)
In one novel by this author, a nanny tells a story about doves to some children who are distracted by watching doves copulate on a miniature model of the Leaning Tower of Pisa. In that novel by him, the cook's son strangles a peacock, and a lisping man from an insurance company comes to enquire about the disappearance of a sapphire ring. That novel by him chronicles the misadventures of servants like the beautiful maid Edith and the butler (*) Charley Raunce after their masters, the Tennants, leave them alone in an Irish castle during World War Two. In another novel by him, the Birmingham factory worker Bert Jones attempts to elope with Lily Gates. For 10 points, name this mid 20th-century English author of novels centering on social class, such as Loving and Living. 
Henry Green [or Henry Vincent Yorke]
9

135011-)
A female character in this play negotiates for a "mountainy ram" and a load of dung as the price for seducing a man, but she later offers that price to the man if she helps him win a different girl. One character in this play refuses to stay in a building alone with his fiancÃ©e because he's scared of what the unseen Father Reilly would say. In this play, a character hired as the new pot-boy is recognized by another character after he wins a mule race. In this play, (*) Shawn Keogh is granted special dispensation to marry Pegeen Mike, who's more interested in a character who smashed someone else in the head with a loy. The 1907 premiere of this play led to riots centered at the Abbey Theatre. For 10 points, Christy Mahon's story about killing his own father earns the admiration of the inhabitants of an Irish village in what play by J.M. Synge? 
The Playboy of the Western World
9

135013-)
In one story by this author, an heiress is duped into plunging down an elevator shaft to her death by a man claiming to be a priest of Apollo. In another story by him, a poet's body is found near a note saying "I die by my own hand; yet I die murdered", written on paper with a corner snipped off. A dog starts howling because it was playing fetch with a sword-stick that sinks into the ocean in his story "The Oracle of the Dog". At the end of a novel by him, a criminal mastermind rides an (*) elephant from a zoo into an exhibition from which he hijacks a hot-air balloon. His most famous character was introduced in a story in which he must protect the Blue Cross from the master thief Flambeau. In a novel by him, a poet becomes an undercover policeman to infiltrate a council of anarchists named after days of the week. For 10 points, name this creator of the priest/detective Father Brown and the novel The Man Who Was Thursday. 
G[ilbert] K[eith] Chesterton 
9

135016-)
Two characters in this work are described as "rapid falcons in a snare / Condemned to do the flitting of a bat". When one character in this work thinks of his mistress' hair while smelling a wild rose, his wife makes him hand over the rose and crushes it beneath her heel. This work describes a couple masking their troubles from their dinner guests in a game of "Hiding the Skeleton", in which "Love's corpse-light shine[s]". This (*) collection opens with a man observing a woman cry sobs that are "strangled mute, like little gasping snakes". Mary Ellen's abandonment of the poet to start a relationship with Henry Wallis was the basis for this collection of fifty 16-line poems. For 10 points, name this Victorian sonnet sequence about a failing marriage, by George Meredith. Â 
Modern Love
9

135019-)
This poem is the subject of "Miniaturizing, Modeling, and Mocking Ideas", the first chapter of Helen Vendler's Poets Thinking. In this poem, Vice is described as a monster whom when we become "familiar with her face / We first endure, then pity, then embrace." The subject of this poem is described as "Created half to rise, and half to fall'" and "The glory, jest, and riddle of the world". The first epistle of this poem concludes that in "spite of pride, in erring reason's spite / One truth is clear, Whatever (*) is, is right." This poem opens "Awake, my St. John! Leave all meaner things / To low ambition, and the pride of kings". Its most famous section commands: "Know thyself and presume not God to scan", before explaining what is "The proper study of mankind". For 10 points, name this poem about the place of human beings in the world by Alexander Pope. 
Essay on Man
9

135020-)
One character in this play says to her gravely ill husband: "Where love is great, the littlest doubts are fear; / Where little fears grow great, great love grows there", and promises she will never remarry by declaring: "A second time I kill my husband dead / When second husband kisses me in bed." The protagonist of this play is killed in a conspiracy between his wife, Baptista, and his nephew, Lucianus. The actors are warned not to (*) saw the air too much with their hands, and to speak their speeches trippingly on the tongue, before performing this play, whose title character dies from having poison poured in his ear. A man who writes a new speech for this play re-titles it The Mousetrap. One member of the audience for this play says "The lady doth protest too much, methinks". For 10 points, name this play-within-a-play that is staged to reveal Claudius' guilt at the behest of Hamlet. 
The Murder of Gonzago [be generous, and prompt on Hamlet; also prompt on The Mousetrap before mentioned]
9

135022-)
This character is the subject of a laudatory song which describes him as a "hunter with eyeballs of flame" after asking "Who has delivered us, who?" At the beginning of the story in which he appears, this character nearly drowns, but is saved by a boy named Teddy. This character kills Karait, and is warned by Chuchundra that he may be in danger. In Man and Superman, Ann's nickname for Octavius is a (*) pun on this character's name. In a climactic scene, he follows an enemy into her underground lair, and emerges victorious after a lengthy battle. This character, whose name derives from his war cry, is an ally of the tailor bird Darzee, and his nemeses are Nag and Nagaina, a pair of cobras. For 10 points, name this brave mongoose from Rudyard Kipling's The Jungle Book.
Rikki-Tikki-Tavi
9

135027-)
One part of this tale has been called the "hissing stanza" because of the sibilance of its lines, such as when a character decries the singing "of such sentence which is against your law's reverence." The narrator of this tale weeps at the death of a small mouse, and swears to Saint Loy. At the end of this tale, the protagonist is compared to Little Saint Hugh of Lincoln, who suffered a similar fate. In this tale, the body of a young boy miraculously starts to (*) sing the hymn "Alma Redemptionis Mater" and doesn't stop until a grain is removed from his tongue. This tale, which opens with an invocation to the Virgin Mary, is told by Madame Eglantine, who wears a brooch with the motto "Amor vincit omnia." In this tale, some Jews are hanged for murdering a boy at the behest of Satan. For 10 points, name this rather anti-Semitic section of The Canterbury Tales.
"The Prioress's Tale"
9

135028-)
This poem predicts an ignominious fate for "he who mocks the infant's faith" and "he who shall teach the child to doubt." One couplet from this poem, which was published separately by the poet with a slightly different wording, describes how "the caterpillar on the leaf reminds thee of thy mother's grief." The Doors' song "End of the Night" quotes this poem's lines about how "some are (*) born to sweet delight" while "some are born to endless night." This poem declares that "a robin redbreast in a cage puts all heaven in a rage." This poem, which consists largely of a litany of paradoxes, begins "To see a world in a grain of sand and a heaven in a wild flower, hold infinity in the palm of your hand, and eternity in an hour." For 10 points, name this poem by William Blake.
"Auguries of Innocence"
9

135040-)
According to Boswell, Samuel Johnson said that this was the only book which would impel him to get out of bed two hours earlier than he wanted to. The extensive introductory material of this work includes a ten-part poem called "The Argument of the Frontispiece" and a warning "To the Reader Who Employs His Leisure Ill." In a poem at the beginning of this work, the author says that of "all my joys," there are "none so sweet as" the title concept, even though "all my griefs are (*) jolly" compared to the title concept. This work, which is written in the form of a medical textbook divided into three partitions, was published under the pseudonym of Democritus Junior. For 10 points, name this lengthy and digressive examination of the title emotion, written by Robert Burton.
The Anatomy of Melancholy
9

135046-)
A Thomas Campion poem describes a woman's face in terms of one of these, and a poem titled for one of them notes that "no life lives for ever;/That dead men rise up never;/That even the weariest river/Winds somewhere safe to sea." In another poem, a visitor to one of these places sees the words, "Thou shalt not" written on a door, and states, "Priests in black gowns, were walking their rounds,/And binding with briars, my joys &amp; desires." In addition to those poems about one of these belonging to Proserpine and one "of Love", another poem about one of these mentions "a green Thought in a green Shade" and begins, "How vainly men themselves amaze/To win the palm, the oak, or bays." For 10 points, name these places, one of which titles an Andrew Marvell poem.
gardens
7

135047-)
One character in this play asks, "Pourquoi? What is pourquoi? Do or not do?" after another character asks him why he is giving up his suit. Another character disguises himself as a priest and states, "What is 'that' but 'that', and 'is' but 'is'?" as he visits a man who has been imprisoned by the rest of the servants for supposed insanity. That character who receives a fake love letter asking him to smile constantly and wear yellow cross-gartered stockings is the steward Malvolio. This play opens with one character stating, "If music be the food of love, play on," as he plans how to court a woman who has promised to stay in mourning for seven years. That woman soon falls in love however with the messenger Cesario, who is really the disguised Viola. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play which was the basis for She's the Man.
Twelfth Night, or What You Will
7

135049-)
One character explains that a handkerchief mentioned in this poem was actually used by one figure to hide how much he was eating rather than to wipe his tears. This poem repeats variations of the phrase, "And this was odd because...", such as when describing the sun shining in "the middle of the night". The title characters want to discuss "why the sea is boiling hot", and whether "seven maids with seven mops" could clear all the sand on the beach, before they take a walk with several oysters whom they end up eating. For 10 points, name this poem recited by Tweedledum and Tweedledee to Alice in Through the Looking Glass.
"The Walrus and the Carpenter"
7

135050-)
In one work by this poet, the speaker asks, "I lock the door upon myself/And bar them out; but who shall wall/Self from myself, most loathed of all?" This poet of "Who Shall Deliver Me?" wrote a poem in which a man's spurned lover comes back on his wedding day to return tokens of his love, and tells his bride to "take my share of a fickle heart". In another poem by this woman, the speaker receives answers to such questions as, "Shall I meet other wayfarers at night?" and, "Shall I find comfort, travel-sore and weak?" This poet of "Maude Clare" and "Up-Hill" wrote, in another poem, about a "nameless girl in freshest summer-greens", whose face "looks out from all [the title figure's] canvases". For 10 points, name this poet of "In an Artist's Studio" who wrote that "there is no friend like a sister" in a poem about Laura and Lizzie's visit to "Goblin Market".
Christina Rosetti
7

135052-)
One work by this poet discusses a "unique distance from isolation" and calls the title action "[a]n emblem of two people being honest". The speaker of another poem by this man wonders whether "dubious women" who "make their children touch a particular stone" will visit the title place, which "held unsplit/So long and equably what since is found/Only in separation". This poet of "Talking in Bed" and "Church Going" wrote about "everyone young going down the long slide/To happiness, endlessly" in one poem, and another of his poems begins, "Groping back to bed after a piss/I part thick curtains." This poet also wrote about "fools in old-style hats and coats" in a work that ends with the advice, "Get out as early as you can/And don't have any kids yourself." For 10 points, name this poet of "High Windows", "Sad Steps", and "This Be the Verse".
Philip Larkin
7

135053-)
In one essay, this man described a hypothetical cartoon character named Mr. Mares-Neste to criticize England's use of the Home Guard during WWII, and that essay is titled "Blimpophobia". He updated John Bunyan's allegorical novel in his work The Pilgrim's Regress, and wrote about a philologist who is kidnapped by Professor Weston and put on a spaceship to Mars where he meets the being Oyarsa. Another novel by this author of the Space Trilogy begins with Shift convincing Puzzle to wear a costume made of an animal's skin, and an earlier novel in that series follows the protagonists' quest to find seven lords banished by Miraz. For 10 points, name this author of The Last Battle and The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, which form part of his series about Narnia. 
Clive Staples (C. S.) Lewis
7

135054-)
The narrator of this novel at one point mocks a series of pretentious diary entries written by the protagonist's grandfather during a trip across Europe, and one character in this work resolves to read Milton's pamphlet on divorce after having been married just that morning, when his bride disobeys him because she is too nervous to order dinner. The protagonist of this novel briefly joins the Simeonites and is scammed by the curate Pryer whom he entrusts with his fortune to develop the College of Spiritual Pathology. He is imprisoned for attacking a maid, after which he decides to marry Ellen but discovers that she is already married. After receiving a secret inheritance from his aunt Alethea on his twenty-eighth birthday, the protagonist returns to Battersby and eventually becomes a writer. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Edward Overton which spans several generations of the Pontifex family, a work of Samuel Butler.
The Way of All Flesh
7

135056-)
One visitor to this place prompts another character to note that "the crocuses promise well" in order to defer the questions of the former. This is the place to where Count Sylvius brings the Mazarin stone, and a wax figure posed in a window here is used to fool a shikari with an air-gun. One visitor to this location is missing a thumb, which he lost when escaping from counterfeiters, while an unwanted visitor to this location is the "king of all the blackmailers", Charles Milverton. One wall of this location is covered with bullet holes spelling "VR", and one character notes that there are exactly seventeen steps leading up to this location. For 10 points, name this location across the street from Camden House, where Dr. Watson lives with Sherlock Holmes.
221B Baker Street
7

135062-)
A character in one of this author's novels is haunted by an audiotape of an argument he had with his wife three days before her death, and that character invents a therapy patient named Magnus Bowles to allow his neighbour to regularly sneak out to see his mistress. This author who wrote about Blaise Gavender's affair in The Sacred and Profane Love Machine wrote a novel in which the playwright Charles Arrowby attempts to kidnap his first love, Mary Fitch, to try to convince her to elope with him. In another novel by this author, the protagonist searches for his old friend Hugo Belfounder after finding a copy of his own novel, The Silencer, in an apartment he is staying in after being kicked out of Madge's place. For 10 points, name this Irish novelist of The Sea, the Sea and Under the Net.
Iris Murdoch
7

135065-)
Apparent allusions to this include a photo of two students "immoderately laughing"; an obituary's mention of a "mutual attraction" with the central figure, written by Elphias Doge; and a passage in which that central character explains, "You cannot imagine how his ideas caught me." The fact that that character's pet is described as "flaming" was retroactively taken as proof of this, and it was revealed after a reading at Carnegie Hall, where the author explained that she believed the central character had fallen in love in his youth with the evil Grindelwald. For 10 points, name this revelation made by J. K. Rowling after the publication of Deathly Hallows about a former Hogwarts headmaster.
anything referring to Dumbledore being gay
7

135066-)
In one of this man's plays, a wife arranges for her husband's mistress to stay at the Comtesse de la Briere's cottage while her husband is also there, in the hope that he will become so sick of her that he'll end the affair. In that play, the student John Shandy agrees to marry Maggie Wylie in exchange for access to her family's books after he is caught breaking into their library. In another of this man's plays, one character throws away a hairpin he finds, causing consternation from several other characters, and another character has his head immersed in cold water every time he utters an epigram. The title butler of that play has an affair with Lady Mary Lasenby and becomes leader of a group of aristocrats when they are shipwrecked on an island. This author of What Every Woman Knows and The Admirable Crichton also wrote a work in which the title character teaches the Darling children how to fly to Neverland. For 10 points, name this author of Peter Pan.
James Matthew (J. M.) Barrie
7

135068-)
The protagonist of this novel ascribes to the theory that "nice things are nicer than nasty ones". That protagonist gets revenge on a roommate by writing him a fake threatening letter from "Joe Higgins", the supposed boyfriend of a secretary that roommate is interested in. During a phone call, the protagonist starts speaking in an accent, pretending to be an operator, to avoid talking to a woman who had earlier asked him about cigarette-burned sheets. The protagonist discovers that Margaret's suicide attempt was faked, allowing him to leave her in favour of Christine. He is offered a job due to his lack of "disqualifications" by Julius Gore-Urquhart, after he is fired by Ned Welch for giving a drunken speech on "Merrie England". For 10 points, name this novel about the title lecturer, written by Kingsley Amis.
Lucky Jim
7

135069-)
In this novel, one character recounts a story about receiving three answers to two questions, leading another character to deduce that time travel is possible. During a walk with the title character, one character randomly jumps into a canal without knowing why, until the title character explains that he had been hypnotized to do so. Before the action of this novel, that title character had been kicked out of college for using his fake psychic powers to predict a final exam too accurately, and that character's real name is Svlad Cjelli. The protagonist scales his girlfriend's apartment building to erase a voicemail he left her while under the influence of a ghost who had earlier convinced the Electric Monk to murder Gordon Way. This novel ends with the title character becoming the Person from Porlock as he travels back in time to save Coleridge from a Salaxian alien. For 10 points, name this novel about the title detective's belief in the "fundamental interconnectedness of all things", written by Douglas Adams.
Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency
7

135071-)
This poet described a "seasonless, herbless, treeless, manless, lifeless" Earth in his poem about the end of the world, titled "Darkness". In another of his poems, the speaker states, "Thy vows are all broken,/And light is thy fame" in a work where he decides to greet an old lover "with silence and tears". One character created by this poet of "When We Two Parted" states, "I have not loved the world, nor the world, me," in a work where he travels around Europe, and another character created by this man is bought by Gulbeyaz and disguised as a harem girl, and had earlier escaped from the pirate Lambro after marrying his daughter Haidee without his consent. That character who has an affair with Don Alfonso's wife, Julia, is the son of Donna Inez and Don Jose. For 10 points, name this poet of "Childe Harold's Pilgrimage" and "Don Juan".
George Gordon Byron [or Lord Byron]
7

135072-)
This man asked, "What, then, is there hidden in the skirts of all the blossoms?" in a poem which states, "Nothing now will ripen the green apples,/Full of disappointment and of rain." The speaker of another poem states, "Americans and French and Germans and so on/they're all very well" but "you must never take them seriously". This poet of "Ballad of Another Ophelia" and "The English Are So Nice" wrote a novel in which one character gives another a gift of three rings, but the "unlucky" opal one is the only one that fits her. That character had earlier been attacked with a paperweight, allowing him to break off his relationship with Hermione and pursue Ursula, though he also desires Gerald Crich who is himself involved with Ursula's sister, Gudrun. This author of Women in Love also wrote a work in which the protagonist's relationships with Miriam and with Clara Dawes are overshadowed by his devotion to his mother. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Paul Morel in Sons and Lovers.
David Herbert (D. H.) Lawrence
7

135077-)
One character created by this author repeats lines beginning "Poise is perfect balance" three times a day, and that character sneaks onto a rooftop to sleep with the author of The Sabbath Notebooks. Another of this author's characters, an anthropologist whose work is destroyed in a fire at the end of the novel he appears in, once almost married Jean Taylor and is the mischievous Alec Warner. This author wrote about Dougal Douglas' stay in the title London district in a work which opens with Humphrey Place leaving his fiancee at the altar. This author of The Ballad of Peckham Rye wrote a work partly set in the Maud Long Medical Ward, in which Lettie Colson starts receiving mysterious phone calls reminding her of the title phrase, and another of this author's works opens with a former resident of the May of Teck Club learning of the death of Nicholas Farringdon. For 10 points, name this author of Memento Mori and The Girls of Slender Means.
Muriel Spark
7

135084-)
One character in this play mocks another character's claim to be anchored to his principles, saying, "[I]f the weather turns nasty you up with an anchor and let it down where there's less wind, and the fishing's better." At one point, the main character in this play is unable to get a boat to take him across the river, and that main character argues against his future son-in-law's statement that he would "cut down every law in England" to pursue the devil. The protagonist earlier gives a gift of a silver goblet to Richard Rich, and rejects the support of Chapuys. The Common Man plays several roles in this play, in which the title character is jailed for failing to swear to the Succession Act, and is eventually executed for refusing to approve of Henry's plan to divorce Katherine. For 10 points, name this play about Thomas More, written by Robert Bolt.
A Man For All Seasons
7

135085-)
Carlo Fruttero and Franco Lucentini wrote a work set at a fictional conference in Rome that revolves around discussions of this novel. One character in this novel buys a scarf but is never seen wearing it, and that character notes a deposit of quicklime while taking a tour of the crypt with Durdles. One character escapes to Mrs. Billickin's with the assistance of the lawyer Grewgious, and this story begins with the arrival of the Landlesses in Cloisterham, as the title character confesses to his opium-addict uncle that he may not want to marry Rosa Bud. For 10 points, name this unfinished mystery in which John Jasper may have murdered the title character, written by Charles Dickens.
The Mystery of Edwin Drood
7

135097-)
The speaker of this poem invokes "sweet Hesper-Phosphor" stating, "Thou, like my present and my past/Thy place is changed; thou art the same." Â The speaker "env[ies] not in any moods/...The linnet born within the cage," and in another section compares men to "flies of latter spring". This poem mentions a "[d]ark house, by which once more I stand/Here in the long unlovely street," and calls himself "[a]n infant crying in the night/An infant crying for the light." The speaker requests, "When the blood creeps and the nerves prick/and tingle" that one figure "Be near me", and in another part mentions the "ancient forms of party strife" and states, "The year is dying in the night;/Ring out, wild bells, and let him die." For 10 points, name this long poem written on the death of the poet's friend Arthur Henry Hallam, by Alfred Tennyson.
In Memoriam A.H.H.
7

135098-)
These creatures are the subject of a poem which states, "Bits of flesh dropped off them from/Time to time./And sank into the pool's mire./They also smelt a great deal," and that poem is by the worst poet in the universe, Paula Nancy Millstone Jennings. A poem titled for these creatures describes one "with fawn-/brown eyes and toothed gold/collar" and opens with a quotation about the restoration of Versailles. In addition to that poem by Marianne Moore, a poem about these creatures states, "Their hearts have not grown old," and asks, "Among what rushes will they build,/...when I awake some day/To find they have flown away?" Another poem titled for one of these begins, "A sudden blow: The great wings beating still/Above the staggering girl." For 10 points, name these creatures whom W. B. Yeats described "at Coole", and which was the form taken by Zeus to rape Leda.
swans
7

135100-)
Gwethalyn Graham's novel Earth and High Heaven takes its title from a poem from this collection, and that poem mentions a time when, "Sweat ran and blood sprang out and I was never sorry" and ends with the speaker asking, "O why did I awake? when shall I sleep again?". Another poem in this collection states, "But play the man, stand up and end you,/When the sickness is your soul," and those poems are "Be still, my soul, be still" and "If it chance your eye offend you". The speaker of another poem in this collection is assured, "Your girl is well contented," by a friend who states, "I cheer a dead man's sweetheart,/Never ask me whose," while other poems mention the "loveliest of trees" and state, "if 'tis dancing you would be/There's brisker pipes than poetry." For 10 points, name this collection which includes "Is my team ploughing" and "Terence, this is stupid stuff", written by A. E. Housman.
A Shropshire Lad
7

135101-)
One of these two characters is stabbed by the spear of Celegorm, while defending the other character from Celegorm's brother, Curufin. These two characters take the form of a wolf and a vampire bat in order to reach the Gate of Angband, which is guarded by Carcharoth. Huan, the hound of Valinor, assists these characters, who go on a quest given to one of these characters by King Thingol to retrieve from the crown of Morgoth one of the Silmaril. A song regarding these two people is sung to the hobbits by Aragorn, who notes that only Elrond remembers the ending of their story. For 10 points, name these legendary lovers from The Silmarillion.
Beren Erchamion (or Camlost) and LÃºthien TinÃºviel [accept either of LÃºthien's names]
7

135102-)
Peaches and Dangerous Beans are two of these creatures who join an army led by the Amazing Maurice in a novel by Terry Pratchett. One of these creatures is prevented by the descendant of Martin the Warrior from taking over Redwall Abbey, and is known as Cluny the Scourge. In another novel, one character is advised to seek help from a group of these creatures when her son Timothy falls ill, and another one of these creatures rummages through garbage for newspaper clippings so that a different character can weave messages like "TERRIFIC" on her web. One of these animals gets sick around the time his owner takes him on a family trip to Egypt, and that animal is earlier the target of a spell beginning, "Sunshine, daisies, butter, mellow." For 10 points, name this animal which is the form of Peter Pettigrew's animagus.
rats
7

135104-)
As a pun on his name, one character in this novel is called "the Right Honourable Rape" behind his back. The protagonist of this novel invents the Polish sculptor Provna and starts a trend of wearing black suede shoes while working as the gossip columnist Mr. Chatterbox. One character in this novel hires a company to make a movie about John Wesley, and that owner of Doubting Hall gives the protagonist a check for a thousand pounds which the protagonist can't cash because it's signed "Charlie Chaplin". Lady Runcible dies after drunkenly crashing her car during a race, and the American evangelist Mrs. Melrose Ape manages a harem of "angels" in this novel. The protagonist's fiancee leaves him for the rich Ginger Littlejohn, after he is unable to procure any money for their wedding. Centering on the Bright Young Things, for 10 points, name this novel about Adam's engagement to Nina Blount, written by Evelyn Waugh.
Vile Bodies
7

135105-)
The speaker of this poem states that "pleasures are like poppies spread/You seize the flower, its bloom is shed". Places that the title character passes in this poem include "the monument/Where hunters found the murdered child" and "the well/Where Mungo's mother hung herself". That character arrives at a place where he sees, "Five tomahawks, with blood red-rusted/Five scimitars with murder crusted" as well as dead babies and "Priests' hearts" lying on a "holy table", around which "dancers quick and quicker flew". The protagonist is chased by those dancers after he shouts, "Well done, cutty-sark!", but manages to escape when his horse's tail gets pulled off as he reaches the River Doon. For 10 points, name this poem about a farmer who comes across a group of dancing witches, a work of Robert Burns.
"Tam O'Shanter"
7

135109-)
One character in this novel is worried that a man named Leonards recognized her at the market, and that man is later found dead a few hours after he gets into a fight with the protagonist's brother at a train station. Another character in this novel adopts the children of John Boucher after Boucher kills himself, and that character's daughter Bessie dies from brown lung disease. The protagonist arrives in the central town after her father leaves the Church of England because of his conscience, and discovers after Mr. Bell's death that she has inherited Marlborough Mills, allowing her to propose a plan to help John Thornton save it. For 10 points, name this novel about Margaret Hale which contrasts the two title regions, written by Elizabeth Gaskell.
North and South
7

135110-)
This author adapted Jane Austen for the stage in his play Miss Elizabeth Bennet. He wrote a novel in which Tony Gillingham discovers that Robert Ablett has been dead for years, and that the man found murdered in the title location was actually his brother, Mark. This author of The Red House Mystery wrote, about another author's work, "We can't criticise it, because it is criticising us," in an introduction to The Wind in the Willows, which he adapted into his Christmas play, Toad of Toad Hall. His collections of poetry for children include When We Were Very Young and Now We Are Six, and among his more well-known characters is one whose house of sticks is constantly being knocked down, and another who enjoys bouncing. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about his son Christopher Robin in Winnie the Pooh.
Alan Alexander (A. A.) Milne
7

135111-)
It's not Jesus, but Anthony Burgess' novel Abba Abba spans the last few months of this man's life, and a poem about this man's death states, "It is midsummer, but the air is cold." In the story "Seymour--An Introduction", Buddy Glass mentions a poem written by eight year old Seymour asking this man to "[p]lease put a scarf on." Another poem addressed to this man states, "Though dust, your finger still can push/The Vision Splendid to a birth," as the speaker describes a tree "whose leaves/Grow music as they grow" and states, "I cannot hold my peace" because "[t]here never was a spring like this." For 10 points, name this addressee of a Countee Cullen poem who Longfellow described as a "young Endymion sleep[ing] Endymion's sleep", a Romantic poet who wrote things like "Ode to a Nightingale".
John Keats
7

135112-)
In one work by this poet, the speaker states, "As we get older we do not get any younger," and that parody of T. S. Eliot is titled "Chard Whitlow". In another poem by this man, one character repeatedly mentions, "There's a reserve upon this number," in reference to a painting of Venus being sold at the title "Auction Sale". The speaker of another work refers to "the fourteen-eighteen affair" and in another section of that work, the speaker describes "a pair of what appear to be humans/[who] appear to be loving", as he instructs, "Not only how far away, but the way you say it/Is very important." The best-known section from that poem which includes "Judging Distance" states, "The early bees are assaulting and fumbling the flowers:/They call it easing the Spring," as the speaker says, "[P]lease do not let me/See anyone using his finger" as he discusses things like the lower sling swivel and the safety-catch. For 10 points, name this poet whose poem "Lessons of the War" includes the section "Naming of Parts".
Henry Reed
7

135116-)
One poem by this man ends, "We shall go mad no doubt, and die that way," if "we let our tongues lose self-possession". That poem notes, "We spell away the overhanging night/We spell away the soldiers and the fright," and begins, "Children are dumb to say how hot the sun is." Another poem states that the title entity needs "no scrutinizing glass/No intense light to be streamed/Upon it" and describes it as "[p]ast reason and past synonym". This poet of "The Cool Web" and "In the Beginning Was A Word" asked in another poem, "Has God's supply of tolerable husbands/Fallen, in fact, so low?". This poet of "A Slice of Wedding Cake" also described the killing of German prisoners of war by the British army in a memoir about his WWI experiences, and wrote a fictional biography of the title emperor in another work. For 10 points, name this author of Goodbye To All That and I, Claudius.
Robert Graves
7

135121-)
This work was composed in response to a discussion comparing physical strength to strength of feelings, and it is described as a work "not to be soon recovered from". The speaker of this work admits to having felt "weak and resentful" before referring to its addressee as a "[t]oo good, too excellent creature". The speaker states that he is "half agony, half hope" and admits his reason for coming to Bath after declaring, "Dare not say that man forgets sooner than woman, that his love has an earlier death." Renewing a proposal made eight and a half years previously, for 10 points, the speaker states his constant love in what missive delivered to Anne near the end of Jane Austen's Persuasion?
Captain Frederick Wentworth's letter to Anne Elliot [accept either parts of the name]
7

135125-)
The author of this play recounts a great success wherein a critic shouted that one of the characters ought to be kicked and he "shattered the ideals" of another. Those statements were in the Author's Apology for this play. At the beginning of Act IV, the protagonist's boyfriend shows her some gold coins he won gambling, but the protagonist still will not take off work to go to a music hall with him, after revealing she is now in a ($) business partnership with Honoria Fraser. The protagonist of this play does not marry Praed or George Crofts, and certainly not (*) Frank, who is revealed to be her half-brother by Reverend Gardner, who'd had an affair with her mother Kitty. For ten points, identify this play in which Vivie is surprised to learn her mother runs a number of brothels, a work by George Bernard Shaw.
Mrs. Warren's Profession
7

135128-)
The death of one woman from this family caused her children to be adopted by JM Barrie, inspiring the Peter Pan stories. Another member of this family wrote a novel whose protagonist meets the albino vicar Francis Davey while living with her uncle Joss Merlyn, who leads a bunch of ($) shipwreckers based out of the title location. A novel written by an author of this last name centers on a tone-deaf woman, who ceases to be able to sing when her (*) hypnotizing companion suffers a heart attack. The most famous novel by an author of this name is titled after a woman who fakes a pregnancy to get Maxim de Winter to shoot her, and begins "Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again." For ten points, identify this surname of the authors of Jamaica Inn, Trilby, and Rebecca, a family whose authors included George and Daphne.
du Maurier (prompt on Davies)
7

135132-)
The events described in this poem "must have been after the birth of the simple light" as "The sky gathered again / And the sun grew round that very day." This poem's speaker reminisces on running his "heedless ways" through "the ($) house high hay."  In its final stanza, the speaker notes that time "would take me / Up to the swallow thronged loft," and, when he was "in the mercy of his means / Time (*) held me green and dying / Though I sang in my chains like the sea. " Opening when "I was green and carefree, famous among the barns," and when "I was young and easy under the apple boughs" is, for ten points, what poem by Dylan Thomas?
"Fern Hill"
7

135133-)
One of this author's novels describes the conclusion of Antonio Molara's dictatorship of Laurania,  which sees his wife Lucile fall in love with the title character, Savrola. That book was based on the same conflict which inspired his The Story of the Malakand Field Force, and he told of the Mahdist Revolt in his The ($) River War.  Norman Brook was in charge of censoring this author's most famous work, because Clement Attlee gave him access to secret documents. This winner of the (*) 1953 Nobel Prize in Literature wrote a six-part series beginning with The Gathering Storm titled The Second World War. For ten points, identify this author, who, perhaps more famously, was Prime Minister of Britain during World War II.
Winston Churchill 
7

135137-)
One of this woman's lovers ultimately marries the science teacher Miss Lockhart, and the other a married one-armed artist. Mary MacGregor, who is maltreated by this woman, ultimately dies when she is unable to escape a ($) hotel during a fire. This lover of singer Gordon Lowther and the art teacher Teddy Lloyd causes the death of Joyce Emily by encouraging her to fight for the Nationalists in the Spanish Civil War. The set of six girls she (*) mentors includes the attractive Rose Stanley and Sandy Stranger, who ultimately gets her fired from her post as a teacher. For ten points, name this woman, the "Prime" of whom is the subject of a Muriel Spark novel.
Miss Jean Brodie (accept either)
7

135142-)
One member of this family was named Diggory and often dined with Duke Humphrey, before being scammed by his fictitious "uncle." Another man from this family gets a huge inheritance when his father Anthony mysteriously dies, and later kills Chevy Slyme's acquaintance ($) Montague Tigg. An elderly man with this surname raises an orphaned girl to care for him, though he disowns her when she runs off with his grandson. That grandson with this surname is opposed by Jonas and the (*) architect Pecksniff, but eventually marries Mary and befriends Mark Tapley and Tom Pinch. For ten points, give this last name shared by two characters named Martin in a Charles Dickens novel.
Chuzzlewit
7

135143-)
Description acceptable. This work asks "What have we in common with St. Bernard covering his eyes" or with "the violent rhetoric of the Book of Revelation?" This essay mentions how, for generations, great men have come out of a certain cradle, but none so great as the one described, whose admirers so filled a church that the street outside was choked with people. The speaker of this prose work claims that, had one lived under Richard II and wanted to learn about ($) Petrarch or Dante, he would ask a Florentine baker or a Lombard merchant. The author of this essay mentions how he did not wish people in restaurants or atop omnibuses to see how much he was moved by the book he was reading. To end this essay, the author borrows a passage about (*) children on the seashore, and it mentions how a certain work stirred its author's blood as nothing had in years. Soon after reading this work, one encounters the line "Thou hast made me endless, such is thy pleasure." For ten points, identify this prose work by William Butler Yeats, which prefaces a poetry collection by Rabindranath Tagore.
Yeats' introduction to Gitanjali (prompt on Gitanjali, accept synonyms for introduction)
7

135147-)
One character in this work tells how people who visit moneylenders arrive sad and leave happy, while people who visit prostitutes feel the opposite. This play's title character generously offers that, though he will cut it down shortly, people may ($) hang themselves on his tree to avoid lives of misery, soon after he convinces the inept Poet and the Painter to search for each other. After finding a (*) stash of gold, this play's protagonist gives it all to Alcibiades to help him attack a city home to Apemantus and Ventidius. This play's title character employs the servant Flavius. For ten points, identify this Shakespeare play in which a rich Greek gives away all his wealth and becomes a hermit.
Timon of Athens
7

135153-)
The viewer of the title object of one of his poems feels a "sharp tender shock" after seeing two figures "side by side, their faces blurred;" that poem concludes "What will ($) survive of us is love." The speaker of another of his poems claims "Postmen like doctors go from house to house" after beginning "I work all day, and get (*) half-drunk at night."  Because "Man hands on misery to man," one of this author's poems advises "Get out as early as you can / And don't have any kids yourself." For ten points, identify this British author of "Aubade" and "An Arundel Tomb," whose "This Be The Verse" contains the memorable line, "They fuck you up, your mum and dad."
Philip Larkin
7

135158-)
CW Hatfield suggests that this author's poem "Often rebuked, yet always back returning" was actually written by a close relative. One of this poet's works ends "thou art Being and Breath / And what thou art may never be destroyed" after claiming "Vain are the thousand creeds / That move men's hearts." With a slightly younger and less famous relative, this author set many of her poems in the fictional land of Gondal. This author of ($) "No coward soul is mine" wrote a novel in which a character has a nightmare of a (*) ghost at his window, prompting his host to open the window to let her in. That novel's frame story is presented by Nelly Dean to Mr. Lockwood, a tenant of Thrushcross Grange. For ten points, name this author who wrote about Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff in Wuthering Heights.
Emily Bronte (or Ellis Bell)
7

135167-)
The "sweet fragrance" of one character with this first and last name precedes him as he enters a jail cell in Southampton County. That character with this name asks "How come you only slew one?" and is based on a real-life figure who wrote a pamphlet describing a ($) solar eclipse and the death of Margaret Whitehead. Another man with this first and last name described a place where "China's gayest art had dyed / The azure flowers that blow" in a poem where "No Dolphin came, no Nereid stirred / Nor cruel Tom, nor Susan heard." That poem warns "Not all that tempts your wandering eyes / And heedless hearts is lawful prize," and was written by a man who shares his name with the (*) lawyer of Nat Turner. For ten points, identify this author who wrote about how a "slippery verge her feet beguiled" in his "Ode on the Death of a Favorite Cat."
Thomas Gray 
7

135170-)
While a man in this play reads the newspaper, he says that Mary Splatt has just had a baby girl, prompting his wife to declare she'd much rather have a boy. One woman in this play seems confused that her husband goes out at the same time every day, but it's only dark out some days, until he explains that the sun comes up later in winter. This play opens with one character repeatedly asking ($) "Is that you?" before giving a man some cornflakes. During a game of blind man's bluff during this play, one man gets his glasses broken, prompting him to get angry and try to (*) rape Lulu. That man denies that the title event is for him despite receiving a drum at the end of Act I, and he is eventually carted away by Goldberg and McCann. For ten points, identify this play set at Meg and Petey's boarding house, the title event of which celebrates Stanley Webber, a work by Harold Pinter.
The Birthday Party
7

135181-)
One character with this job remembers the day his father died "with a large sense of triumph." Only people of this profession can join the Hayes Society, such as one in India who calmly ($) shot a tiger under a dining room table.  Another holder of this post once stared at two rude men in the backseat of a car until they stopped laughing. One character with this job tries to teach "the facts of life" to Reginald (*) Cardinal, and that man's father dies soon after Dupont and Lewis give dinner speeches. That character with this job hopes to master the art of banter to please his employer, the American Mr. Farraday. For ten points, identify this job held by Darlington Hall's Stevens in The Remains of the Day.
butler
7

135183-)
In one of this author's plays, a former member of the Eyesore Negation Department causes the firing of the title character, who spouted fictional anecdotes while giving tours of a boring building. The title character of one play by this author of Lettice and Lovage is seen with ($) Constanze Weber by that play's protagonist, who claims to have poisoned him. Psychiatrist Martin Dysart learns about Jill Mason's relationship with (*) Alan Strang, who stabs the eyes of his "gods" in a play by him that required Daniel Radcliffe to appear nude on stage with a horse. For ten points, identify this British playwright who wrote about Salieri and Mozart in Amadeus and also penned Equus.
Peter Shaffer
7

135191-)
According to Wikipedia, when Isaac Asimov makes racist jokes, he makes them about people from this country. In Vile Bodies, Lottie Crump introduces a deposed king of this country to Adam. One crisis in this country is set off when a letter carried by Fritz von Tarlenheim is intercepted by the king's brother's former advisor, causing the death of two members of the Elphberg family. Antoinette de Mauban helps with a rescue attempt here because she does not want her lover Michael to marry another. Title characters of novels set in this country include Princess Osra and ($) Rupert of Hentzau. The protagonist of one novel set here falls in love with Princess Flavia, and is the king's cousin Rudolf Rassendyl, who must impersonate him at a coronation after he is kidnapped. For ten points, identify this fictional country, the setting of (*) Anthony Hope's The Prisoner of Zenda.
Ruritania
7

135194-)
One poem titled after this figure sees the central character wail "I am finished, finished!" and posits that he "had a cat named Flo." In Lolita, Humbert Humbert uses "Arlene Lupin" and this name to check into a motel. The original figure known by this name allegedly needed a ($) horse to help pull a lifeboat. Thomas de Quincey thought this person might be the doctor Aaron Potter, though most believe he was (*) made up, evidenced by the real-life figure in question later making up the excuse of a "letter from a friend" to not finish a philosophical tract. For ten points, identify this figure who supposedly interrupted the opium-caused dream of Coleridge, preventing the completion of "Kubla Khan."
The Person from Porlock (accept synonyms for person like "man")
7

135196-)
One poem in this collection reflects on how "The rose-lipt girls are sleeping / In fields where roses fade" as he realizes "With rue [his] heart is laden." The speaker of another poem in this collection remembers "The happy highways where I went / And cannot come again" after asking "What spires, what farms are those?" This collection, which includes ($) "From far, from eve and morning" and "The Land of Last Content" contains a poem which reassures the title figure that "Eyes the shady night has shut / Cannot see the record cut" and "silence sounds no worse than cheers / After earth has stopped the ears." Another poem ends by noting (*) "Mithridates, he died old" and begins with someone telling the title figure "You eat your victuals fast enough." For ten points, identify this poetry collection which includes "Terence, This is Stupid Stuff" and "When I was One-And-Twenty," written by A.E. Housman.
A Shropshire Lad
7

135200-)
This short story mentions how, due to his marriage, the narrator had only heard secondhand the tale of the Atkinson brothers in Trincomalee. The antagonist of this story dresses up to say good night to the protagonist, after the latter has arranged for a ($) smoke bomb to be thrown into a room and served as witness to a marriage involving Godfrey Norton.  This story's protagonist notes that there are (*) seventeen steps leading into his room, after telling his friend that "You have not observed." Beginning "To Sherlock Holmes she is always the woman" is, for ten points, what story about the detective trying to steal from Irene Adler a picture of a Central European monarch?
"A Scandal in Bohemia"
7

135205-)
This poem's title objects are "Fresh as the first beam glittering on a sail, / That brings our friends up from the underworld." This poem's speaker wistfully remembers things "so sad, so fresh," which are as "sad and strange" as "the earliest pipe of half-awaken'd birds" in ($) "dark summer dawns." Those entities are "dear as remembered kisses after death / And sweet as those by hopeless fancy feign'd," as "deep as first love, and wild with all regret." This poem's speaker remembers thinking of the (*) "days that are no more" while "looking on the happy autumn-fields" and says "I know not what" the title objects mean. For ten points, identify this Tennyson poem about lacrimal secretions.
"Tears, Idle Tears" 
7

135209-)
One character in this story is accompanied by a brown spaniel and has a white waterproof coat. This story's protagonist adopts a look to "convey sympathetic comprehension" before seeing a look of horror on another's face. The protagonist of this story had supposedly been hunted by dogs in a cemetery on the banks of the Ganges, though in reality a ($) "self-possessed girl of fifteen" is just doing damage to his nervous condition. The sister of one character in this short story fears him "burying himself" and "not speaking to a living soul," which is why she gives him letters of introduction to various strangers. Those strangers include Mrs. (*) Sappleton, whose daughter Vera tells Framton Nuttel a fictional story about the title aperture. For ten points, name this story which ends "Romance at short notice was her specialty," written by Saki.
"The Open Window"
7

135215-)
While locked up, one character in this play sends another a letter written in her own blood. One servant in this play believes he is going to be pardoned for his murder of Serberine, but ($) Pendrigano is hanged anyway. A character in this play bites out his tongue after committing murder during a performance of Soliman and Perseda; that is Horatio's father Hieronimo. The spirit of (*) Revenge appears onstage before each act of this play, who tells the ghost of Andrea that he will soon see the death of his murderer Balthazar at the hands of Bel-Imperia. For ten points, identify this revenge play by Thomas Kyd, which probably inspired Hamlet.
The Spanish Tragedy, or Hieronimo is Mad Again
7

135218-)
In this novel, one character fears that, were he struck by lightning, the Junta would be no more, so he selects Sir John Marraby and The MacQuern to join him. It is noted that a cowardly man in this novel only has one pair of boots, leading Katie to realize he is still alive. As he dies, one character wishes his landlady cashed his check, because he does not want Mrs. ($) Batch to get caught up in red tape. A ring is dropped in front of the title character by the fiancee of Noaks, who makes up an excuse about an injured spine to get out of a certain commitment. Two (*) black owls perch on the battlements of Tankerton in this novel, foretelling the death of the Duke of Dorset, whose death inspires countless people to commit suicide. For ten points, identify this "Oxford love story" in which students jump into the river in honor of the title female, a work by Max Beerbohm.
Zuleika Dobson
7

135224-)
This poem mentions a previously-written play whose protagonist sells her soul to save her serfs from a famine, as one of the many "old themes" its author cannot "but enumerate." That reference is sandwiched between ones to "that sea-rider" Oisin and Cuchulain's fight against "the ($) ungovernable sea" when "the Fool and Blind Man stole the bread." This poem "grew in pure mind" out of "a mound of refuse or the sweepings of the street," though its author must now "lie down where all ladders start / In the (*) foul rag and bone shop of the heart." For ten points, identify this W.B. Yeats poem.
"The Circus Animals' Desertion"
7

135227-)
This man is responsible for a work which "whether understood or not, could not even by the blindest be overlooked." He wasn't created by Goethe, but a section of the novel in which this character appears mentions how he wanders hungrily while describing his "Sorrows." Andreas Futterall raises him in the village of Entepfuhl before sending him off to Hinterschlag, and this man is a professor of "Things in General" at ($) Weissnichtwo ["Vice-neekt-voh"] University. This character has a name meaning "god-born devil-dung" and wrote a philosophic tract on clothes. For ten points, identify this protagonist of (*) Thomas Carlyle's Sartor Resartus.
Professor Diogenes Teufelsdrockh (accept either)
7

135231-)
This play's protagonist wished that another character, who was pregnant, would have just "popped into the cottage hospital" and had the baby instead of marrying, though his wife reminds him that would have undermined her social life. At the beginning of this play, a woman talks to her maid about the latter's struggle getting ice cubes out of the little tin trays. That maid replaced ($) Agnes and is the far-too-quickly-moving Edith. At the end of this play, the protagonist is warned to leave quickly, after which the room he was in is destroyed in a fight. This play sees (*) Ruth die after the car her husband was supposed to drive is sabotaged. In this play, Madame Arcati accidentally summons the ghost of Elvira, the long-deceased first wife of Charlie Condomine. For ten points, identify this Noel Coward play whose title comes from "To a Skylark."
Blithe Spirit
7

135235-)
In a dystopian novel with this title, a hospital worker watches a Nativity play to learn about maternity "before the days of Welfare." An Edward Burne-Jones watercolor with this title was accidentally damaged when an idiot tried to apply an egg-white varnish to it. A novel with this title sees a woman's bearded chin replaced by a prosthetic rubber jaw and ($) Miles Plastic burn down a euthanasia center. A poem with this title describes a "site once of a city great and gay," the capital of a country which does not now "even boast a tree." That poem is set at a "quiet-colored end of evening smiles" in "solitary pastures" where sheep graze, and appears in a collection with (*) "Fra Lippo Lippi" and "Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came." For ten points, identify this title shared by an Evelyn Waugh novel and the first poem in Robert Browning's collection Men and Women.
"Love Among the Ruins"
7

135245-)
In this story, one character notes that he has found it more conducive to domestic peace to always let his wife have the last word, after she tells him not to joke about religion. Another character in this story angrily yells "What's that?" when her ears are assaulted by ragtime music from a nearby gramophone while she visits a mortuary. One character's wife frets about all the dancing the ($) natives of the South Seas do, and the horrible marriage customs they have which makes missionary work so difficult. The femme fatale of this story wants to go to Australia with Timothy O'Hara, but the protagonist learns of a warrant for her arrest back in San Francisco. The protagonist of this story travels to Pago-Pago with the MacPhails. Davidson kills himself in this story after falling in love with the prostitute Sadie Thompson. For ten points, identify this (*) W. Somerset Maugham story whose title alludes to a type of precipitation.
"Rain"
7

135247-)
The title character of this play is said to have gained favor with his superior by being the only one not to flee Spelunca, and was found by soldiers with his "knees, hands, face / O'erhanging" that superior. This play begins with a chat between Silius and Sabinus in the palace before they are joined by Satrius and Natta. The title character of this play says "O thou art lost!" to himself before being carted to the dungeon thanks to the efforts of Sanquinius and Haterius. After the demise of the title character, the Senate repeats "And praise to ($) Macro, that hath saved Rome!" For fifteen points, identify this play about the commander of the Praetorian guard under Tiberius, written by Ben Jonson.
Sejanus: His Fall
7

135255-)
Though his infancy was not "distinguished by any extraordinary incident," this character is sent to school when it is decided that he is ugly and cannot read. There, he joins Etherege and Poyntings in the production of a play that greatly annoys the schoolmaster Mr. Dallas. Beckendorff is irked when this character falls in love with the baroness Sybilla, and this character kills ($) Frederick Cleveland in a duel after the latter attracts the attention of Felix Lorraine. The novel titled after him contains the first use of the word "millionaire" in print and sees him dabble in politics with the Marquess of Carabras. For ten points, identify this protagonist of the first novel by (*) Benjamin Disraeli.
Vivian Grey (accept either)
7

135257-)
The first stanza of this poem ends "And then the rain began -- the jolly old rain!" One character in this poem stares "across the morning blear with fog" before crouching, "dizzy with galloping fear / Sick for escape." Though "things seemed all right at first," the place was "rotten with dead," "and naked sodden buttocks, mats of hair / Bulged." Another man in this poem goes ($) "Down, and down, and down" and "sank and drowned, / Bleeding to death" as he "fought the flapping veils of smothering gloom." This poem begins "We'd gained our first objective hours before / While dawn broke like a face with blinking eyes," and ends by noting that the title (*) operation "had failed." For ten points, identify this title poem of a collection by Siegfried Sassoon.
"Counter-Attack"
7

135261-)
The speaker of one of this man's poems says "Speak! for thou long enough hast acted dummy" despite the fact that "thou hast a tongue" and "thou art standing on thy legs, above ground." This author of "Address to the Mummy at Belzoni's Exhibition" collected his essays in Gaieties and Gravities and penned historical novels like Reuben Apsley and Brambletye House. With his brother James, this author wrote a number of incredibly popular parodies of contemporary authors, The Rejected Addresses. This poet's most famous work posits that "some ($) Hunter may express / Wonder like ours" when he finds the ruins of London and "stops to guess / What powerful but unrecorded race / Once dwelt in that annihilated place." That poem mentions "the site of this forgotten Babylon," where there "stands a gigantic Leg" "in Egypt's sandy silence." For fifteen points, identify this poet whose "Ozymandias" was written as a competition with Percy Shelley.
Horace Smith
7

135262-)
This author created a world containing emanations such as Enitharmon and Vala which was divided into parts like Tharmas and Urizen after the division of Albion. One of this author's poems asks if the title location "was builded here / Among these ($) dark Satanic Mills" and begins by asking "Did those feet in ancient times / Walk upon England's mountains green?" Another of this author's poems mentions how "thy life" is destroyed by "the dark secret love" of a (*) "invisible worm, / That flies in the night / In the howling storm." For ten points, identify this poet of "Jerusalem" and "The Sick Rose," whose Songs of Experience include "The Tyger."
William Blake
7

135264-)
One character in this play claims a woman should only be mourning for her brother if he is in hell, not heaven, prompting that woman to say his comment was merely a harmless "bird-bolt." One character in this play leaves promising revenge after having earlier quoted a line about having ($) "greatness thrust upon" him. After being given a letter forged by Maria, that character in this play smiles constantly and wears (*) yellow stockings cross-gartered. That character, Malvolio, disapproves of the drunkenness of Andrew Aguecheek and Toby Belch. For ten points, identify this Shakespeare comedy which sees Olivia and the Duke Orsino marry shipwrecked twins Sebastian and Viola.
Twelfth Night
7

135265-)
This poem describes a time when "Rough satyrs danc'd, and Fauns with clov'n heel / from the glad sound." The speaker of this poem implores "Return Sicilian muse / And call the vales, and bid them hither cast / Their Bels, and Flourets of a thousand hues." This poem also mentions a "two-handed engine at the door / Ready to ($) smite once, and smite no more," and concludes with the speaker vowing to go (*) "Tomorrow to fresh woods, and pastures new." This poem begins "Yet once more, O ye laurels" "I come to pluck your berries harsh and crude." For ten points, identify this elegy on the death of Edward King by John Milton.
"Lycidas"
7

135266-)
Part III of this novel opens with the protagonist's stomach disgustingly tell him to shovel in a thick mutton stew. At the beginning of this novel, we learn that the protagonist's father has a hairy face and looks at him through a glass, after he mentions a ($) moocow coming down a road and says that he is baby tuckoo. The protagonist of this novel debates with the dean whether an item should be called a funnel or a tundish, leading him to realize that regular English is just an "acquired language" for him. In this novel, (*) "Dante" Riordan is a pious Catholic who takes issue with Uncle Charles' lauding of Charles Parnell. This novel's protagonist attends Clongowes College where he meets Father Dolan. For ten points, identify this novel about the childhood of Stephen Dedalus by James Joyce.
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
7

135268-)
Andrew McNeillie wrote a prose memoir about a year he spent in this location. PÃ¡draig SÃ­ochÃ¡in was deeply involved with this location and wrote a book about it. A trilogy set in this location only consists of two plays, because the author disliked the third play so much that he never published it. That trilogy begins with a play about the crippled Billy Claven, who gets a part in a Robert J. Flaherty documentary about this location, and its second play is about the violent INLA member Mad Padraic, who finds out that his cat Wee Thomas has been killed. In another play set here, Cathleen and Nora discover that their brothers Michael and Bartley have drowned; that play is by J. M. Synge, who wrote a journal about his time living in this location. For 10 points, name this setting of Riders to the Sea and a trilogy by Martin McDonagh, a group of islands off the west coast of Ireland including Inishmore.
Aran Islands [prompt on Ireland or County Galway; accept Inishmore before "Billy Claven"]
7

135270-)
This poet wrote that when God said "Let there be light," "there was a little," but most of the darkness was not illuminated. He was accused of plagiarism because he quoted passages of Glyn Jones' prose verbatim in his poem "Perfect." His major work quotes Robert Burns in describing a "red, red rose" emerging in a section dealing with the 1926 British general strike.  Much of that magnum opus is addressed to Dostoevsky, and it is filled with images of moonlight on the title plant. That poem compares the church straying from Christ to the modern misunderstanding of Robert Burns, and consists of the rambling, often existential, thoughts of the speaker, who quotes the saying in vino veritas and bemoans the state of modern Scotland, which is represented by the title plant. For 10 points, name this leader of the Scottish Renaissance who wrote A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle.
Hugh McDiarmid
7

135274-)
When one character in this play says that he used to profit by miseries and misfortunes, another character responds by asking if he was a lawyer and a doctor at the same time. Near the beginning of this play, one character repeatedly insults another, interpolating his insults by saying "though he is my friend." The fact that the Italian Signor Ritornello has a French interpreter leads to much linguistic confusion in one scene. A play within this play includes a scene in which Burleigh enters and exits the stage without saying a word, and features a love story involving Tilburina and Don Ferolo Whiskerandos. The second half of this play focuses on a rehearsal of Mr. Puff's play The Spanish Armada at the Drury Lane Theatre, attended by Dangle, Sneer, and Sir Fretful Plagiary. For 10 points, name this satire of the world of theater by Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
The Critic
7

135275-)
The introduction to the first issue of this periodical says that it "sets out to be an avenue for all those vivid and violent ideas that could reach the Public in no other way." Poems printed in this periodical include a parody of "Sumer is Icumen In" called "Ancient Music," and it also featured a bizarre play about Arghol and Hanp called Enemy of the Stars. Featuring illustrations by Henri Gaudier-Brzeska, Edward Wadsworth, and others, its first issue had a gaudy pink cover, while its second issue was called the "War Number" and its cover featured a geometrical woodcut by its founder. Its first issue contained an excerpt from Ford Madox Ford's The Saddest Story, which later became The Good Soldier, as well as a manifesto including a list of things to be blessed, which was highly critical of Futurism. For 10 points, name this short-lived Vorticist magazine with an explosive name, created by Wyndham Lewis.
BLAST
7

135279-)
One character in this novel takes a forty-mile train ride and walks nine miles every year just so she can see a certain gentleman. Another character asks if she should replace a misplaced expression in her calculations while discussing whether or not she should assent to a marriage proposal. Divided into three books called "Sowing," "Reaping," and "Garnering," it features a character who is dissatisfied with his marriage to a drunken wife and desires to marry Rachael instead. That character dies after falling into Old Hell Shaft, and is named Stephen Blackpool. In this novel, a circus performer abandons his daughter, Sissy Jupe, who is taken in by the father of Louisa, or Loo. Other characters include Josiah Bounderby and the fact-obsessed Thomas Gradgrind. For 10 points, name this Dickens novel.
Hard Times
7

135285-)
When one character in this poem is wounded by an arrow, he breaks off the shaft of the arrow with his shield and then stabs the man who had shot the arrow. That character makes a dying speech in which he asks God that "the fiends of Hell shall not be permitted to harm me." Another character in this poem makes a speech saying "Our hearts must grow resolute, our courage more valiant, our spirits must be greater, though our strength grows less." Three brothers in this poem show their cowardice by fleeing from battle, one of them riding on his lord's horse. Much controversy stems from the proper translation of this poem's word ofermode, which is variously translated as "pride" or "arrogance," and which is used in describing Byrhtnoth's decision to allow the Vikings to cross over to the mainland. For 10 points, name this Old English poem about a 991 battle.
"The Battle of Maldon"
7

135289-)
One of this author's poems opens with the sound of a starting pistol and the image of Jean JaurÃ¨s dying in a puddle of wine. The speaker of one of this author's poems responds to the statement that "one cannot lose what one has not possessed" by saying "I can lose what I want." That poem purports to be translated from a work by a poet named Sebastian Arrurruz. This poet refers to "Platonic England" in a poem that says "And after all, it is to [quaint mazes] that we return," entitled "An Apology for the Revival of Christian Architecture in England." His other poems include "Lachrimae" and "Funeral Music," and he also wrote a collection of poems recounting the life of Offa. His more recent collections include The Orchards of Syon and A Treatise of Civil Power. For 10 points, name this acclaimed English poet of King Log, Tenebrae and Mercian Hymns.
Geoffrey Hill
7

135290-)
In one novel by this author, Mr. Hoppy tells Mrs. Silver how to make her tortoise Alfie grow by whispering a magic spell in its ear. This author created a character who develops psychic powers so he can win a large amount of money gambling, but decides to throw his winnings out of his window and use the remainder to found a number of orphanages. He also wrote about a giant who lives on snozzcumbers and frobscottle. This author of Esio Trot and "The Wonderful Story of Henry Sugar" is better known for creating a thoroughly unpleasant husband and wife who trap birds by covering trees with glue until the Roly-Poly Bird enables the birds to get their revenge. This author of The BFG and The Twits wrote about Augustus Gloop and Veruca Salt in his most famous work. For 10 points, name this author of children's books like Matilda and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.
Roald Dahl
7

135296-)
9. One author with this surname wrote about Dr. Conybeare in a historical novel which counts a number of Metaphysical poets, as well as Robert Herrick, as major characters. In that author's second-last novel, Barbary Deniston is estranged from her mother Helen Michel, until she reveals that she was not responsible for Maurice's drowning during World War II. Another author with this surname included the poems "Ivry" and "The Armada" with a series of four poems on classical themes, including "The Prophecy of Capys" and "Horatius." The first author famously opened one novel with the line "Take my camel, dear." In Das Kapital, Marx called the second author a "systematic falsifier of history," in reference to a Whiggish history of England he wrote spanning the period from the reign of James II to the death of William III. For 10 points, give this surname shared by Thomas Babington, who wrote Lays of Ancient Rome, and Rose, who wrote The Towers of Trebizond.
Macaulay
7

135300-)
One stanza of this work compares gambling to gunpowder because it "blow[s] up houses." Another stanza of this work advises the reader to "do all things like a man, not sneakingly." Another stanza advises the reader to "drink not the third glass" as part of a series of stanzas dealing with temperance. It claims that if you disagree with a preacher, it is because you don't understand him, and it describes prayer as "the end of preaching." It opens with an address to the reader called a perirrhanterium and ends with two "stanzas of superliminare," the first of which commands the reader to "approach, and taste the church's mystical repast." It includes eighty stanzas, spanning a period of forty days, since one stanza is meant to be read each morning and evening. For 10 points each, name this opening section of George Herbert's The Temple.
"The Church Porch" [prompt on The Temple]
7

135301-)
A letter written to the protagonist of this novel declares "Unjust I may have been, weak and resentful I have been, but never inconstant." A resident of Uppercross Hall is refused by the protagonist of this novel when he asks her for marriage. In this novel, the nurse Rooke is a confidant to a widow named Mrs. Smith, whose impoverishment is not relieved by a widower who, according to false rumors, is engaged to the protagonist. The protagonist's relationship with one character is renewed when the latter overhears a conversation between her and Captain Harville about the differences between men and women. The protagonist's vain father gets himself into financial trouble, forcing him to relocate to Bath and lease Kellynch Hall to Admiral Croft. This novel ends with the protagonist being reconciled with Lady Russell and marrying Frederick Wentworth. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen novel about Anne Elliot.
Persuasion
7

135310-)
The 28th stanza of this poem begins with a litany of interrupted phrases like "but how shall IÂ…" and "reach me aÂ…" This poem describes how "Hope had grown grey hairs, Hope had mourning on" during the central event. The speaker of the first section of this poem says "I am soft sift in an hourglass" and addresses God, saying "Thou has bound bones and veins in me, fastened me flesh." The second section of this poem begins with the words of Death, who says "Some find me a sword; some the flange and the rail; flame, fang, or flood." One character in this poem calls out "O Christ, Christ, come quickly." Another character is "pitched to his death at a blow" when he "stir[s] from the rigging to save the wild woman-kind below." This poem describes how the title ship "on Saturday sailed from Bremen, American-outward-bound." For 10 points, name this poem by Gerard Manley Hopkins about the death of five Franciscan nuns.
"The Wreck of the Deutschland"
7

135319-)
This poem describes how "poor birds, deceived with painted grapes, do surfeit by the eye and pine the maw." This poem uses the metaphor of an "oven that is stopp'd," which "burneth more hotly," to demonstrate the strength of concealed feelings. One character in this poem calls another character a "cold and senseless stone" and a "statue contenting but the eye alone." The latter character says "Affection is a coal that must be cool'd" to explain to another character why his horse ran away to pursue a mare. After the death of her beloved, the first title character of this poem asks Death, "Grim-grinning ghost, earth's worm, what dost thou mean to stifle beauty and to steal his breath?" Earlier, the first title character of this poem "seizeth on" the other's "sweating palm" and repeatedly entreats him to kiss her. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare poem whose second title character dies after being gored by a boar.
Venus and Adonis
7

135321-)
Near the end of this essay, the author recalls an argument about whether whipping an animal to death is justified if the improvement in flavor is greater than the animal's suffering. The author of this essay describes the remorse he felt after giving a plum-cake which his aunt had baked for him to a beggar. It quotes Coleridge's "Epitaph on an Infant" in justifying the death of the title animal, who "might be content to die" instead of becoming a glutton and a sloven. It tells of how Bo-bo accidentally set fire to his father Ho-ti's cottage, leading to the death of his livestock, which turned out to be a fortuitous circumstance, since it caused him to discover the deliciousness of the title food, which, according to the author, is best if it is "a young and tender suckling." For 10 points, name this essay from Essays of Elia, the most famous of Charles Lamb.
"A Dissertation upon Roast Pig"
7

135322-)
This author wrote a story whose title character is blackmailed by Louisa, who is the only other person who knows that the tiger she supposedly killed actually died of heart failure. The main character of another of his stories pretends to be the governess Miss Hope, and instructs Claude and Wilfrid to re-enact the rape of the Sabine women as part of the title method of teaching history. He also wrote a story in which Harvey's attempt to give his nephews a model of a municipal dust-bin and a John Stuart Mill figurine is a failure, because they play war games with them anyway. This author of "Mrs. Packletide's Tiger" and "The Schartz-Metterklume Method" wrote about Georg and Ulrich being attacked by wolves while trapped under logs in one story, and about Mrs. Sappleton's husband and brothers returning from a hunting trip in another. For 10 points, name this author of short stories like "The Toys of Peace," "The Interlopers," and "The Open Window."
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro]
7

135325-)
This play contains the Wildean line “I had no idea that poets nowadays were interested in literature,”
spoken by a character who calls Wilde an “Irish Gomorrahist.” That character has had a methodical
education, resulting in an intimate familiarity with aardvarks, abaci, and abstract art, although politically he
hasn’t gotten past anarchism. The repetition of the line “I have put the newspapers and telegrams on the
sideboard, sir” demonstrates the protagonist’s fading memory. One character in this play creates a poem by pulling
words from Shakespeare’s Sonnet 18 out of a hat. One scene in this play is spoken entirely in limericks, and another
scene is a parody of the catechism chapter of Ulysses. This play, set in Zurich, consists of the reminiscences of
Henry Carr. For 10 points, name this Tom Stoppard play whose characters include Vladimir Lenin, Tristan Tzara,
and James Joyce.
Travesties
7

135329-)
The narrator of this book calls Kamehameha III a "fat, lazy, negro-looking blockhead." In one scene, the narrator fashions a makeshift pop-gun which delights the people with whom he is living. The narrator of this book describes a building frequented by several extremely old greenish men; that building, called the Ti, is inaccessible to women. The narrator of this book witnesses a ritual which he calls the Feast of Calabashes, and he encounters people such as the beautiful Fayaway and the dutiful servant Kory-Kory. At the beginning of this book, the narrator escapes from the Dolly with his friend Toby, and they try to find the valley of the Happar, but end up in the valley of the title tribe instead. This book's sequel, which shares its name with a tree which grows on Nuku Hiva, is called Omoo. For 10 points, name this "peep at Polynesian life" by Herman Melville.
Typee: A Peep at Polynesian Life
7

135330-)
A sailor in this novel quips "Any port in a storm" after accidentally sticking his penis in the wrong hole while having sex with the protagonist. Minor characters in this novel include a boy nicknamed "good-natured Dick" and a Genoese merchant who is observed by the protagonist. The main character of this novel is orphaned when her parents die of smallpox, and Esther Davis advises her to go to London. In this novel, Charles' father kidnaps him and sends him to the South Seas to make his fortune, and a shipwreck on the Irish coast delays his reunion with his beloved. One scene in this novel sees Emily, Harriet and Louisa tell the title character the stories of their sexual awakening, after which all four of them have sex on a couch in turn while the others watch. For 10 points, name this famously obscene erotic novel by John Cleland.
Fanny Hill [or Memoirs of a Woman of Pleasure]
7

135336-)
One of his last works was an adventure novel about George Cranleigh's love for the title character, who is a daughter of a prince from the Caucasus. This author of Dariel also created a character who becomes famous for his unnatural ability to float around with the wind, Sir Thomas Upmore. His anonymously published novel Clara Vaughan was mistakenly attributed to Mary Elizabeth Braddon. Most famously, he wrote a novel set in Exmoor during the time of the Monmouth Rebellion. That novel features a family of robbers who live in a valley, and the title character is believed to be a member of that family, until it is discovered she is actually a member of the Dugal family. The narrator of that novel, John Ridd, meets Judge Jeffreys and falls in love with the title character. For 10 points, name this author of sensation novels like Lorna Doone.
Richard Doddridge Blackmore
7

135341-)
This author wrote about a man who installs tape recorders in a tunnel linking West and East Berlin. In another novel by this author, Stephen's face appears in a window while his mother is pregnant with him, causing her decision not to get an abortion. In another of his novels, Edward prematurely ejaculates before he can consummate his marriage with Florence, who is uncomfortable with sex. In one novel, he wrote about a neurosurgeon who notices that Baxter is in the early stages of Huntington's disease after a minor car accident. He won the Booker Prize for a novel about a euthanasia pact between Clive Linley and Vernon Halliday. This author of The Child in Time and On Chesil Beach is best known for a novel in which Robbie is falsely accused of rape by Cecilia's sister, Briony Tallis. For 10 points, name this author of Amsterdam and Atonement.
Ian McEwan
7

135345-)
The protagonist of this play delivers a soliloquy in which he says life is but a "lively form of death" and the world is but a "mass of public wrongs." The protagonist also says "Thou art the lively image of my grief" to an old man who seeks justice for his murdered son. A lover in this play says "Give me a kiss, I'll countercheck thy kiss," as part of an extended metaphor comparing love to war. In this play, a messenger-boy disobeys his orders by looking in a box and discovering that it is empty, instead of carrying a pardon for Pedrignano. This play's frame story features the ghost of Andrea, who was killed in a battle with the Portuguese, and desires to know what his lover Bellimperia did after his death. In this play's final act, Lorenzo and Balthazar play Erasto and Soliman in a play staged by Hieronimo as part of a plot to avenge the death of his son Horatio. For 10 points, name this revenge tragedy by Thomas Kyd.
The Spanish Tragedy
7

135349-)
This country is home to a location called Laku, which means "I don't know" in the local tongue, because that's what a native responded when asked what the name of a hill was. A tax collector and general named Gollancz belongs to the Jackson family, which dominated this country's politics in its early history. Its fascist movement is led by Smiles Soum, and the fascists in this country like to be called Whites after the White Russians, though the ongoing civil war here is said to be between the Reds and the Blacks, or more commonly the Patriots and the Traitors. People who the protagonist meets in this country include KÃ¤tchen and a man who calls himself Mr. Baldwin, and he is sent to this country by Mr. Salter under orders from Lord Copper of the Daily Beast. For 10 points, name this African country to which William Boot is accidentally sent as a war correspondent in Evelyn Waugh's Scoop, named after the narrator of Moby-Dick.
Ishmaelia
7

135350-)
The short story "Miss Grief" is sometimes thought to be about the author's relationship with this man. That story was written by a woman whose relationship with this author is the subject of Emma Tennant's novel Felony, and it is also treated in David Lodge's novel Author, Author. Nick Guest, the protagonist of Alan Hollinghurst's The Line of Beauty, is writing a thesis on this author. Another fictionalization of this author's life is The Master by Colm TÃ³ibÃ­n, which includes an account of the disastrous failure of his play Guy Domville. This author's relationship with Constance Fenimore Woolson is dealt with in a five-volume biography of him by Leon Edel. This author of the essay "The Art of Fiction" is best known for his novels, including ones about Verena Tarrant and Isabel Archer. For 10 points, name this author of novels like The Bostonians and The Portrait of a Lady.
Henry James
7

135352-)
One of his poems notes that a male bear might turn back if a peasant shouts at him, but a female bear will simply "rend the peasant tooth and nail." He wrote a poem beginning "The ships destroy us above and ensnare us beneath" for a booklet about naval warfare which contained six essays, each prefaced by a poem, some of which were set to music by Elgar as The Fringes of the Fleet. He wrote a poem recounting how he was struck by the beauty of a Burmese girl while sitting by a pagoda in Moulmein. This author of "Mandalay" wrote a ballad framed as a conversation between Colour-Sergeant and Files-on-Parade. He also wrote a poem whose first four stanzas end with the refrain "Lest we forget Â– lest we forget!" That poem, which was written for Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee, is called "Recessional." For 10 points, name this poet of "Gunga Din" and "If."
Rudyard Kipling
7

135361-)
In the first stanza of this poem, the poet rhymes "words" with "words," which is the only instance in this poem of a word being rhymed with itself. The subject of this poem is also featured in the final stanza of another poem by the same author, in which one figure who appears in this poem "summoned Cuchulain to his side"; that poem is called "The Statues." This poem, which describes a man who "rode our winged horse," claims that "Too long a sacrifice can make a stone of the heart" and asks "Was it needless death after all?" The central figures of this poem are "changed, changed utterly," and include MacDonagh, MacBride, Connolly and Pearse. It begins "I have met them at close of day," and three of its four stanzas end with the refrain "A terrible beauty is born." For 10 points, name this poem about an Irish uprising by W. B. Yeats.
"Easter, 1916"
7

135365-)
The last lines spoken in this play begin, "Our drooping country now erects her head, peace spreads her balmy wings, and plenty blooms." This play ends with an epilogue spoken by the actress who plays the main female character, which ends by stating "If you like nothing you have seen today, the play your judgment damns, not you the play." The first actor to perform this play's title character was Thomas Betterton. It was part of the standard theatrical repertoire until 1838, when William Charles Macready reverted it to a shortened version of the play on which it was based, fifteen years after Edmund Kean restored the tragic ending. For 10 points, name this play by Nahum Tate which, unlike the play it was based on, gets rid of the Fool and ends with the title character regaining his throne and Edgar marrying Cordelia.
The History of King Lear [before Tate is mentioned, accept "Nahum Tate's adaptation of King Lear" and prompt on King Lear]
7

135378-)
The protagonist of this novel agrees to play a game where he rolls a die and has to take a suicide pill if the number six comes up. This novel's protagonist reads the confession of the murderer Robert Foulkes before seeing a vision of him. One character in this novel tells of a man whose sumptuously furnished villa burns down on the same day that a Norwegian madman has a vision of a pillar of fire. He also tells of how he was ordered to execute two men by the Germans during World War II, but refused, leading to the execution of eighty men. The protagonist falls in love with a woman who is distinguished from her twin by the scar on her wrist and who variously presents herself as the actress Julie Holmes and the reincarnation of Lily, the dead lover of Maurice Conchis. For 10 points, name this novel by John Fowles in which Nicholas Urfe gets involved in a mysterious "godgame" on a Greek island.
The Magus
7

135383-)
In one novel set in this country, the villainous title character intercepts a letter from the Queen to her lover. One resident of this country is a silversmith named Stephen Nados, who is one of the many suitors of the title character of another work set in this country, a collection of nine linked stories in which a princess of this country toys with men's affections. The aforementioned works are Rupert of Hentzau and The Heart of Princess Osra, respectively. This country, whose capital is Strelsau, influenced George Barr McCutcheon's fictional country of Graustark, and it lends its name to a genre of swashbuckling romances set in fictional countries. Residents of this country include Princess Flavia, Colonel Sapt, and Fritz von Tarlenheim. In the most famous work set here, Rudolf Rassendyll impersonates its king, who is locked up in a castle. For 10 points, name this setting of Anthony Hope's The Prisoner of Zenda.
Ruritania
7

135385-)
Both John Steinbeck and Sidney Lanier used this work as the basis for books for children on the same subject. The preface to this work notes that it is "known through the universal world that there be nine worthy and the best that ever were," namely "three Paynims, three Jews, and three Christian men." W. F. Oakeshott discovered a manuscript of this work, known as the Winchester Manuscript, which is thought to be closer to the original than William Caxton's text. The second book of this work is largely a translation of an alliterative Middle English poem with a similar title. Along with the Mabinogion, it was Tennyson's primary source in writing Idylls of the King. For 10 points, name this mythological compilation by Thomas Malory.
Le Morte d'Arthur [or The Death of Arthur]
7

135390-)
This author created a character who is compared to a flying fish which is hated by the rest of the fish in the sea. One play by this author contains the first notable English use of the pseudo-Italian phrase che sera, sera, spoken as part of a monologue about the idea that "the reward of sin is death." Two of this author's plays include characters named Callapine, one of whom is an Ottoman pasha and the other is the son of a Turkish king who is killed by the title character, who asks "It is not passing brave to be a king?" He wrote an unfinished poem about two lovers which was completed by George Chapman, but is better known for a poem which inspired a reply by Sir Walter Raleigh. One of this author's characters says "make me immortal with a kiss" to Helen, whom he describes as "the face that launch'd a thousand ships." For 10 points, name this author of plays like Edward II, Doctor Faustus, and The Jew of Malta.
Christopher Marlowe
7

135396-)
One character in this play states that it was Woman who taught him to say "I am, therefore I think." The main character is corrected by a mechanic when he misattributes a Beaumarchais quote to Voltaire. That mechanic, who studied at the Polytechnic, is referred to by the main character as "the New Man." Another character in this play declares his love for Louisa, which indirectly resulted in his becoming a brigand. One character in this play is often compared to a boa constrictor and represents the "life force," and that character does not end up marrying Octavius, whom she calls "Rikki-Tikki-Tavy." The third act of this play features an old woman who is indignant that she is in Hell even though she confessed on her deathbed, as well as a lengthy argument between a statue, the Devil, and Don Juan. For 10 points, name this George Bernard Shaw play about Jack Tanner.
Man and Superman
7

135399-)
In this novel, a ring is found in a goldfish pond whose inscription indicates that it is from someone with the initial R. Other clues in this novel include the fact that Charles Kent's last name is also the name of a county and that the parlormaid Ursula has recently given notice, supposedly because she disarranged the papers of the title character. The resolution of the plot in this novel revolves around the overhearing of the sentence "The calls on my purse have been so frequent of late that I fear it is impossible for me to accede to your request," which turns out to have been spoken by a Dictaphone. Ultimately, Ralph Paton, the butler Parker, and the rest of the members of the central household are found to be innocent by Hercule Poirot. For 10 points, name this Agatha Christie mystery in which the murderer is revealed to be James Sheppard, who also happens to be the narrator.
The Murder of Roger Ackroyd
7

135401-)
One character in this novel is an artist who is working on a painting called Amateur Model, explaining that the girl posing for it is an amateur who is acting as a model. The protagonist of this novel mistakes a girl at a party for a ballet student named Sonia Loosmore. The protagonist of this novel gives a short speech in which he says that love should not be analyzed, just as nobody analyzes the fact that they like greengages. The various forms of trickery employed by the protagonist include stealing the Barclays' taxi, impersonating a reporter named Beesley, and hiding the evidence that he accidentally burned his host's bedclothes with a cigarette. At the climax of this novel, the title character gives a lecture in which he calls Merrie England one of the most "un-Merrie" periods in English history and mocks Professor Welch. For 10 points, name this novel by Kingsley Amis. 
Lucky Jim
7

135402-)
10. One character in this play insults his rival by calling him "pachydermatous," and ends the play by regretfully asking himself "What's gentility worth if it can't stand fire?" At an auction in this play, one character blows his nose as a signal for his agent to stop bidding, and that auction is won by a bid from Smalley. The protagonist of this play says "Who touches pitch shall be defiled" because he doesn't want to use his knowledge of Chloe's sordid past to blackmail her father-in-law. One character in this play reneges on a promise by ejecting the Jackmans from their cottage, and buys a plot of land called the Centry so he can build chimneys on it, escalating a rivalry which forces a rift in Jill and Rolf's friendship. For 10 points, name this play about a quarrel between the Hillcrists and the Hornblowers by John Galsworthy.
The Skin Game
7

135407-)
This character is admonished by a woman who tells him, "I believe the dead are at peace, but it is not right to speak of them with levity." In the first chapter of the novel in which he appears, this character makes faces at three dogs, causing one of them to attack him. While hunting on a friend's estate, he discovers that he is in the vicinity of Gimmerton, and decides to visit an estate where he had previously been a tenant. He dreams that he is attacked by a congregation after complaining about the length of a sermon delivered by Jabez Branderham, shortly before he sees a vision of a woman clawing at the window asking to be let in. He learns the history of the central characters from Nelly Dean when he returns to Thrushcross Grange. For 10 points, name this narrator of Emily BrontÃ«'s Wuthering Heights.
Mr. Lockwood
7

135413-)
In the sequel to this novel, the protagonist marries the title character in Paris after they escape from Britain. A friend of this novel's protagonist convinces an innkeeper's daughter to give them a ferry ride by telling her that he is a dying nobleman. One character in this novel wants to fight a duel with his rival, but the protagonist convinces them to have a bagpipe-playing contest instead. One event in this novel which is based on actual events is the murder of a man nicknamed the "Red Fox," whose real-life killing was known as the Appin Murder. In this novel, the evil uncle Ebenezer tries to murder the protagonist, and when he fails, he gives him to Captain Hoseason to sell into slavery. The protagonist of this novel befriends Alan Breck, whom he meets while being forcibly kept on the ship the Covenant. For 10 points, name this Robert Louis Stevenson novel about the adventures of David Balfour.
Kidnapped
7

135419-)
The last section of this novel partially takes place in a shrine dedicated to a saint who carries on his mission to free prisoners even after his head is cut off. During a trial in this novel, the spectators chant "Esmiss Esmoor" in hopes that a certain character will testify, and that character is mistakenly yelled at by the protagonist for not taking off her shoes. Another character's guilt is symbolized by the echo she hears in her head. That character attends a party hosted by Mr. Turton and later meets Professor Godbole. The protagonist of this novel befriends Cyril Fielding and Mrs. Moore, whose son, Ronny Heaslop, breaks off his engagement with a woman after she withdraws her accusations of sexual assault against the protagonist. For 10 points, name this novel about Adela Quested and Dr. Aziz by E. M. Forster.
A Passage to India
7

135422-)
One of these works by this author says that poets should be "misers of sound and syllable," as long as "by dull rhymes our English must be chained." Another of these works by this author asks "Who shall his fame impair when thou art dead, and all thy wretched crew?" in reference to the imprisonment of Leigh Hunt. Another of these works by this author appropriately begins with the unmetrical line "How many bards gild the lapses of time." Another of them describes his worries that he might die "before my pen has glean'd my teeming brain," while the speaker of yet another addresses a "bright star," wishing that he were "stedfast as thou art." The speaker of the most famous of these works by this author describes how he felt "like some watcher of the skies when a new planet swims into his ken," comparing himself to "stout Cortez." For 10 points, name these 14-line poems which include "On First Looking into Chapman's Homer." 
sonnets by John Keats [prompt on partial answer]
7

135423-)
In one of this man's novels, Ninon contracts AIDS from having sex with a restaurant worker, but Gino marries her anyway. He collaborated with the photographer Jean Mohr on a study of migrant workers in Europe called A Seventh Man, and he wrote a trilogy about French peasant life consisting of the novels Pig Earth, Once in Europa, and Lilac and Flag. This author of the Into Their Labours trilogy won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize and the Booker Prize for a novel whose title character is an Anglo-Italian Casanova, which is filled with digressions about sex and other topics. This author of G. is most famous for a book which argues that paintings generally treat female nudes as objects of male desire and which was based on a BBC series of the same name. For 10 points, name this man who collaborated with Mike Dibb on Ways of Seeing.
John Berger
7

135425-)
A character created by this novelist crushes a snake which is trying to swallow a toad, getting blood all over his shoes. That character, Giles, appears along with Mrs. Manresa and Lucy Swithin in a novel in which the music wails the phrase "Dispersed are we" repeatedly in the first intermission of a pageant on English history, which ends with Miss La Trobe turning mirrors on the audience. Another of her creations worries what his friends will think of the fact that his father is a banker in Brisbane. She wrote a novel whose title character has a love affair with the Russian princess Sasha, is appointed British ambassador to Constantinople, and writes a long poem called The Oak Tree; that character, based on Vita Sackville-West, becomes a woman halfway through the novel. For 10 points, name this author of Between the Acts and Orlando, as well as To the Lighthouse.
Virginia Woolf
7

135429-)
One character in this play says, "I do not believe in miracles. I have seen too many." Another character in this play remarks that he thought only Roman philosophers committed suicide, to which Tigellinus responds that the Stoics, who are "ridiculous people," do commit suicide. The description of the scene at the beginning of this play notes that the moon is shining brightly, but by the end of the play, the moon has become as red as blood. The title character of this play insistently repeats requests like "Bring forth this prophet" and "Suffer me to kiss thy mouth," the latter of which is directed at Jokanaan. Ultimately, the title character demands the head of Jokanaan from her step-father, who is referred to as the Tetrarch. For 10 points, name this tragedy by Oscar Wilde whose title character performs the dance of the seven veils.
Salome
7

135438-)
The speaker of a poem named after this figure compares himself to "a scout at risk behind lines who raises his head in a wheatfield to take a first look." That poem appears in the same collection as a poem whose speaker ends up "among people far too eager to believe me and my story, even if it happened to be true." The latter poem is named after this figure "redivivus" and is from Station Island. The author of those works, Seamus Heaney, also translated the original poem about this figure, resulting in a work titled after this figure "astray." In another poem, "the zebra stripes along" this figure's jaw are "swelling to maculate giraffe."  An unfinished verse drama about this figure with a title echoing that of a Milton work was written by the author of a poem which describes him as "apeneck." For 10 points, name this mad king of Irish myth who was placed "among the nightingales" by T. S. Eliot.
Sweeney
7

135440-)
This author wrote a story whose narrator dreams that he falls asleep for a thousand years and wakes up in a "Harrison Bergeron"-like society where there is complete equality. One of his novels tells of a comical attempt to pantomime the word "savoury," as the narrator doesn't know the German word for "savoury" but wishes to order a savoury omelet in Germany. That novel, about a trip to see the Oberammergau Passion Play, is called Diary of a Pilgrimage.  He wrote an collection of essays including "On Getting On in the World" and "On Being Hard Up" which inspired a similarly-titled collection published under the name Jenny Wren. This author of Idle Thoughts of an Idle Fellow is best known for a novel about a trip from Kingston to Oxford undertaken with George, Harris, and the dog Montmorency. For 10 points, name this humorist who wrote Three Men in a Boat.
Jerome Klapka Jerome
7

135441-)
This poem's final illustration shows a horrified face formed by the branches of a tree, while a lizard-like creature appears to lurk in the shadows. One character in this poem wears seven coats and three pairs of boots. That character's only skill is his ability to bake wedding cake, and he is known by his friends as "Candle-ends" and by his enemies as "Toasted-cheese." One character in this poem evokes the rule of three, and that character asks "What's the good of Mercator's North Poles and Equators?" to justify his use of a map which is completely blank. This poem features a crew whose members all have titles beginning with B, including a Beaver and a Bellman. The title creature of this poem is sought with thimbles and care, and pursued with forks and hope. For 10 points, name this poem by Lewis Carroll in which the title creature turns out to be a Boojum.
The Hunting of the Snark
7

135449-)
This play's protagonist sticks his tongue out to prove that he wasn't drunk the night before, to which his wife responds "Kindly put it in again." One character in this play claims to have played backgammon with Genghis Khan. The protagonist's skill in making dry martinis is praised by his friend's wife in this play, whose central couple has an annoyingly fast-paced maid named Edith, who is responsible for this play's central events. One character's affairs with Guy Henderson and Captain Bracegirdle are revealed to the protagonist of this play, and another character uses the record "Always" to communicate with her "control," Daphne. The protagonist of this play is visited by the ghost of his first wife Elvira as the result of a sÃ©ance with Madame Arcati, to the chagrin of his current wife, Ruth. For 10 points, name this NoÃ«l Coward play about Charles Condomine named after a line from "To a Skylark."
Blithe Spirit
7

135454-)
This character is described as "a variant of Achilles, who equates honor with his own status" in a study of him by Neil Forsyth. This character sits "high on a throne of royal state," and is described as being "from despair thus uplifted beyond hope." William Empson proposed two different ways of viewing this character. He delivers a soliloquy on Mount Niphates shortly before taking the form of a toad to whisper in the ear of another character, and he resumes his normal form when touched by Ithuriel's spear. He is identified with rhetoric as opposed to logic in Stanley Fish's Surprised by Sin. In his final appearance, he is transformed into a "monstrous serpent" by his adversary and creator, against whom he raises "impious war in Heav'n" by leading one side in the Angelic War. For 10 points, name this character from Paradise Lost who considers it "better to reign in Hell than to serve in Heaven."
Satan [accept Lucifer; prompt on other names for the Devil]
7

135459-)
The inhabitants of this location bury their dead facing upside down, since they believe that the Earth will turn upside down when they are resurrected. Activities in this location include rope-dancing and a ceremony involving a stick which the Emperor gives out colored threads to the participants. The two main political parties here are distinguished by the height of their heels and are called Tramecksan and Slamecksan. The narrator puts out a fire in the home of this location's Empress by peeing on it, and also thwarts an invasion by tying the enemy's ships together. The son of one emperor of this island injured himself while breaking an egg from the large end, leading to an edict which incited a war with the neighboring island, Blefuscu. The inhabitants of this island refer to the narrator as "Man-Mountain" after tying him down and shooting him with tiny arrows. For 10 points, name this island inhabited by miniature people, visited by Lemuel Gulliver.
Lilliput
7

135461-)
This playwright discussed the critics' assertion that the affection between Moses and Ramses was not sufficiently developed in his play The Firstborn in an essay called "An Experience of Critics." One of his plays takes place near Ephesus at the tomb of Virilius, whose widow Dynamene plans to kill herself. He used the Hungarian Revolution of 1848 as the backdrop for a play subtitled "A Winter Comedy," The Dark Is Light Enough. This author of A Phoenix Too Frequent wrote about the rape of Lucretia in Duel of Angels, which was an adaptation of a play by Jean Giraudoux, much like his Tiger at the Gates. He also adapted plays by Rostand and Anouilh, but remains best known for a verse play set in Hebble Tyson's house, in which Thomas Mendip confesses to imaginary crimes so that he will be hanged, while Jennet Jourdemayne tries to avoid being executed for witchcraft. For 10 points, name this playwright of The Lady's Not for Burning.
Christopher Fry
7

135464-)
The title character of this play refers to a lily as "new-blown and ruddy as St. Agnes' nipple." One character in this play rants about "some unsuspected isle in the far seas" after overhearing a song about Caterina Cornaro. In this play, Sebald and Ottima argue about whether they were right to murder Ottima's husband Luca. Another scene of this play concerns the soon-to-be-married Jules and Phene. Luigi ponders the song "A King Lived Long Ago" in this play, but it is unclear whether he is dissuaded from his plan to assassinate an Austrian official. Famously, the author of this play mistakenly used the word twat to refer to part of a nun's habit. The aforementioned characters are all influenced by the title character as she walks by, singing lines like "God's in his heaven, all's right with the world." For 10 points, name this play by Robert Browning.
Pippa Passes
7

135468-)
One response to this poem is a quatrain which reads, "Though the great song return no more there's keen delight in what we have: the rattle of pebbles on the shore under the receding wave." The title character of another response to this poem thinks about "what his whiskers would feel like on the back of her neck" and says "one or two unprintable things" because she is angry at being "addressed as a sort of mournful cosmic last resort" by the author of this poem while they are standing "with the cliffs of England crumbling away behind them." This poem is read to Mildred by Guy Montag to convince her of the worth of literature in Fahrenheit 451, and it is parodied in an Anthony Hecht poem about a "bitch." For 10 points, name this poem which compares life to "a darkling plain swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight," written by Matthew Arnold.
"Dover Beach"
7

135469-)
This section of a larger work is parodied in a scene in which Violetta angers Camillo by describing how much she wants to sleep with Fontinelle, using "speaking French" as a euphemism for sex. That scene appears in Thomas Dekker's Blurt, Master Constable. This section of a larger work is enacted by Elma and a drunken Dr. Lyman in William Inge's Bus Stop. In it, one character notes that Jove laughs at lovers' perjuries and makes reference to the inconstancy of the moon. That character's eyes are compared to "two of the fairest stars in all the heaven," and she is beseeched to "arise Â… and kill the envious moon." In this scene, one character is asked to "deny thy father and refuse thy name" by his lover, who declares that "parting is such sweet sorrow." For 10 points, name this famous scene from Romeo and Juliet.
the balcony scene [prompt on Act II, Scene 2 of Romeo and Juliet]
7

135475-)
One of his poems ironically says "He that first invented thee, may his joints tormented be" in reference to the title concept. Another of his poems calls his son, who died at the age of seven, his "best piece of poetry." That first poem is a satirical work which inveighs against rhymed poetry but is itself rhymed. He wrote a poem which praises a house even though it is not "built to envious show of touch or marble, nor can boast a row of polished pillars, or a roof of gold." That poem, which was influenced by Horace and itself influenced many later country house poems, is "To Penshurst." This author of "A Fit of Rhyme Against Rhyme" and "On My First Sonne" is better known for a poem which tells the addressee to "leave a kiss but in the cup and I'll not look for wine" after telling her to "drink to me only with thine eyes." For 10 points, name this poet of "To Celia."
Ben Jonson
7

135478-)
This poem features a vision of a spirit "clothed in no bright robes of shadowy silver or enshrining light," and it describes how the main character "kept mute conference with his still soul." The speaker of this poem asks the "mother of this unfathomable world" to "favour [his] solemn song" because of his devotion to her. This poem describes how the main character abandons his body, until "his listless hand hung like dead bone within its withered skin." The main character of this poem addresses a swan, saying "Thou hast a home, beautiful bird." The main character of this poem is a poet who leaves home "to seek strange truths in undiscovered lands," and a vision of a "veiled maid" inspires him to search for the supernatural, culminating in a voyage down a river in an abandoned boat. For 10 points, name this poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley named after a "spirit of solitude."
"Alastor, or the Spirit of Solitude"
7

135482-)
This character's first conversation with her future husband is punctuated by parenthetical comments describing what she is thinking during the pauses. She loses an archery contest to Juliet Fenn. In his preface to one edition of the novel in which she appears, F. R. Leavis suggested that the novel should be named after this character. When her family falls into financial trouble, she considers a career in entertainment, but is discouraged by Herr Klesmer because she is too old to start training. When we first meet this character, she loses 200 pounds at the roulette table, forcing her to pawn her necklace. She marries the wealthy but jealous Henleigh Mallinger Grandcourt, who already has several children with Lydia Glasher, but seeks solace with the title character, a Zionist who rescues Mirah Lapidoth. For 10 points, name this heroine of George Eliot's Daniel Deronda.
Gwendolen Harleth [accept either]
7

135484-)
The speaker of one poem in this collection describes a water-based religion whose "litany would employ images of sousing." In another poem in this collection, a picture of a girl on a poster advertising a beach is defaced by Titch Thomas. Yet another poem in this collection ends with a stanza containing the phrase "Never such innocence" twice. In addition to "Water," "Sunny Prestatyn," and "MCMXIV," it contains a poem ending with the line "Books are a load of crap." In the title poem, the speaker says that a dozen of the title events took place in the time it takes to say "I nearly died"; the speaker of that poem watches those events from a train. This collection's final line, which lacks the author's typical cynicism, is "What will survive of us is love," from the poem "An Arundel Tomb." For 10 points, name this collection by the author of High Windows, Philip Larkin.
The Whitsun Weddings
7

135490-)
This author wrote a play about a girl who mysteriously disappears for three weeks on a Scottish island, later returning to the same island as an adult only to disappear again, this time for many years. One of his works features a St. Bernard which, like this author's own dog, is named Porthos. In that work, some fairies cause Maimie Mannering to become trapped inside Kensington Gardens. This author of Mary Rose and The Little White Bird wrote a play in which class distinctions are overturned when a group of aristocrats including Lord Loam's family are stranded on a deserted island, and their butler, the title character, becomes their leader. In his most famous work, Ed Teynte, Bill Jukes, and Cecco are killed by the title character. Smee is the right-hand man of the antagonist of that work, which popularized the name Wendy. For 10 points, name this author of The Admirable Crichton and creator of Peter Pan.
James Matthew Barrie
7

135491-)
Near the end of this novel, the narrator quotes the last two lines of the "all the world's a stage" speech while bemoaning the difficulty of writing endings. One character in this novel is a crippled woman who is estranged from her Italian husband. At the beginning of this novel, the old bishop dies and is replaced by a man who is dominated by his wife, who opposes the High Church. Much of this novel's plot revolves around the proposal to install a Sunday school in the location which was formerly managed by the protagonist of the novel to which it is a sequel. The main female character of this novel is wooed by three men, including Bertie Stanhope and the disagreeable Mr. Slope. At the end of this novel, the widowed Eleanor Bold marries the new dean Mr. Arabin, and Mr. Quiverful becomes the new warden of Hiram's Hospital. For 10 points, name this sequel to The Warden, the second novel in Anthony Trollope's Chronicles of Barsetshire.
Barchester Towers
7

135499-)
This poem describes a vision of a "Semi-Quixote" who is simultaneously Don Quixote and a desert Arab. The speaker of this poem declares that "by love Â… all grandeur comes, all truth and beauty," and he sees "the perfect image of a mighty Mind, of one that feeds upon infinity." The speaker of this poem rejoices at the death of Robespierre, saying "Come now ye golden times." In this poem, Vaudracour is imprisoned because of his love for Julia and ultimately becomes a recluse. The poet's indebtedness to Milton is hinted at when he describes this poem's subject matter as "some old Romantic tale by Milton left unsung." Journeys undertaken by the speaker of this poem include a crossing of the Alps in Book VI and, in the last book, an ascent of Snowdon. For 10 points, name this poem subtitled "Growth of a Poet's Mind" by William Wordsworth.
The Prelude
7

135505-)
The speaker of this poem is excited by the appearance of "a troop of Oxford hunters going home." The speaker looks forward to the advent of musk carnations, "gold-dusted snapdragon," and other "high Midsummer pomps." The final stanza of this poem asks "Why faintest thou?" and "Dost thou ask proof?" This poem describes "that sweet City with her dreaming spires" who "needs not June for beauty's heightening." The speaker of this poem laments that "too rare, too rare, grow my visits now" to the central location. The first stanza of this poem recalls the old days when "we still had" the title character, whose death causes the speaker to lament "the bloom is gone, and with the bloom go I." Scattered throughout this poem are references to the author's previous poem "The Scholar-Gipsy." For 10 points, name this monody for Arthur Hugh Clough by Matthew Arnold.
"Thyrsis"
7

135508-)
A playwright with this surname wrote about a malevolent shapeshifting fairy who manipulates Lily and Josie in one play, as well as writing a play about Salter, who clones his son Bernard to produce a son named B2. That author of The Skriker and A Number wrote a play about sexual mores whose first act takes place in the Victorian Era and whose second act takes place in 1979, even though only 25 years pass for the characters. That author of Cloud Nine also wrote a controversial 10-minute anti-Israel play called Seven Jewish Children. This surname of the playwright Caryl is shared by a satirical poet named Charles who wrote the Rosciad. A more famous man with this surname wrote a six-volume work beginning with The Gathering Storm, as well as a four-volume history of his country beginning with Caesar's invasions and ending with the beginning of World War I. For 10 points, give this surname possessed by a winner of the Nobel Prize in Literature whose first name is Winston.
Churchill
7

135515-)
One of this author's earliest published works was an acclaimed translation of the first book of Horace's Odes. In Stella Gibbons' Cold Comfort Farm, Mr. Meyerburg is working on a thesis arguing that this author's works have been misattributed to other authors. He wrote "I sit, this evening, far away from all I used to know, and nought reminds my soul today of happy long ago" in the poem "Thorp Green," which contains his reminiscences about the time spent at the home of Lydia Robinson, with whom he had a failed love affair. He created the ruthless anti-hero Alexander Percy, who appears in Real Life in Verdopolis and other works set in the kingdom of Angria. He is the subject of a biography by Daphne du Maurier about his "infernal world," and one of his sisters wrote about Lucy Snowe in the novel Villette. For 10 points, name this brother of the BrontÃ« sisters.
Patrick Branwell BrontÃ«
7

135517-)
Writing about this novel, its author said that it tells you "something new about hell fire." The name of the main female character in this novel may be derived from a character in the film The Hands of Orlac, since a poster for that film appears as a symbol in the first chapter. The protagonist of this novel mistranslates a sign which says "Do you like this garden that is yours? See to it that your children do not destroy it!" This novel's author wrote a 31-page letter to Jonathan Cape explaining the logic of its construction in great detail. In this novel, the French filmmaker Jacques Laruelle sleeps with the protagonist's wife Yvonne, and the protagonist's half-brother is a would-be songwriter obsessed with the Battle of the Ebro named Hugh. This novel follows a day in the life of the consul Geoffrey Firmin. For 10 points, name this novel which takes place in Cuernavaca on the Day of the Dead, a work of Malcolm Lowry.
Under the Volcano
7

135519-)
In one of these title locations, a man is hired as a valet because his last name is Deathshead, appealing to the master's morbidity, only to be fired when his face is deemed too cheerful-looking. One character continually says the line "The Devil is come among us" in one of these a title locations, where a ghost interrupts a debate about whether ghosts exist, frightening one character into falling into water, where he is caught by the ichthyologist Asterias, who obsessively searches for mermaids. Cousin Marionetta is pursued by (*) Scythrop Glowry in that one of these places created by Thomas Love Peacock. One of these title locations contains rooms that belonged to the dead wife of a general, which the protagonist becomes convinced hold a clue to the wife's murder, after reading "horrid novels" recommended to her by Isabella Thorpe. For 10 points, the Tilney family own what sort of building at which Catherine Morland stays, and which is named Northanger?
abbey
9

135522-)
After this character unexpectedly survives being pushed off of the bridge at Lyons and into the Rhone river, he quotes aloud the passage about Hephaestus's plummet to earth from Homer's Iliad to charm the man who pushed him into sparing his life. This character's first love is killed on their intended wedding day, when she is stabbed in the arm with a poisoned needle. As a young boy, this character catches a wolf cub that falls out of the sky during a fight between eagles. When asked by two (*) historians which of their styles he prefers, he chooses the factually accurate one over the stylistically beautiful one. The former of those historians, Pollio, advises this character to play the fool, which allows him to survive the assassination attempts that befall his relatives at the order of his grandmother Livia. For 10 points, this stammering Roman emperor, the protagonist of two novels by Robert Graves.
(Tiberius) Claudius (Caesar Augustus Germanicus)
9

135524-)
In Volume 4 of his most famous work, this writer argued that Shakespeare's gift for human sympathy could only have come about because he was born in a mild landscape with no mountains. This writer delivered a series of lectures in which he identified the goddess Athena with The Spirit of Life that animates man. This critic distinguished between beauty as "divine attributes" versus "the felicitous fulfillment of function in living things", which he called Typical versus Vital Beauty. This author of The (*) Queen of the Air included Redundance and Savageness among the six characteristic elements of the title style in his chapter "On the Nature of Gothic". He also introduced a term for the flaw of attributing human characteristics and emotions to natural phenomena. For 10 points, name this Victorian critic who coined the term "pathetic fallacy", the author of The Stones of Venice and Modern Painters.
John Ruskin
9

135533-)
One character in this play constantly and mistakenly uses the phrase "vice versa" and refers to bad things as "derogatory". Another character in this play argues that national labels don't mean anything because we're just an accidental gathering of molecules and atoms. An orator delivers political speeches in the background of this play's second act, which is set in a tavern frequented by the prostitute Rosie. One character in this play burned the letter informing her husband of the (*) rank he has been awarded. In this play's final act, the protagonist wanders towards a window while hallucinating, but is pushed out the way by Bessie Burgess, who is shot by British soldiers, who mistake her for a sniper. In spite of the pregnancy of his wife Nora, Jack Clitheroe decides to fight as a commandant in the Easter Rising in this play. For 10 points, name this play by Sean O'Casey, titled for the symbols on the flag of the Irish Citizen Army.
The Plough and the Stars
9

135538-)
According to one poem, the image of this animal "can bring wildness, bring a rage / to end all things," "even / The half-imagined, the half-written page" after "Some moralist or mythological poet" compares it to a "solitary soul." An author who evoked the hour when this animal "must fix his eye / Upon a fading gleam" described a "daughter" of this animal who "stands before me as a living child" in a poem that recalls a myth about them in a dream of a woman's body "bent / Above a sinking (*) fire." A poem beginning, "I meditate upon a swallow's flight" is titled for a place where another speaker counts these "brilliant creatures," whose "hearts have not grown old." A poem named for one of these animals describes a "shudder" that "engenders there / The broken wall, the burning roof and tower" and asks if a "staggering girl" with "terrified, vague fingers" "put on his knowledge with his power." For 10 points, name these animals that swim at Coole and rape Leda in poems by W.B. Yeats.
wans [accept Cygnus; prompt on "Anatidae" or "birds" or "Aves" or other less specific answers]
9

135543-)
The protagonist of this novel encounters a blind catechist, whom he later learns is an outlaw who can shoot by ear. One character in this novel cuts a silver button off of his coat to give to the protagonist so that his allies may recognize him. In one episode in this novel, the protagonist nearly dies on an island, after failing to realize he could simply leave when the tide recedes. Two characters in this novel who are set upon dueling are convinced to have a musical piping contest instead. The protagonist of this novel is made a cabin boy after (*) Ransome was beaten to death by Mr. Shaun and is accused of being an accomplice in the murder of the "Red Fox", Colin Roy Campbell. The lawyer Mr. Rankeillor tricks the protagonist's uncle, Ebenezer, into confessing he sold the protagonist to Captain Hoseason. Alan Breck rescues David Balfour from abduction in, for 10 points, what Robert Louis Stevenson novel?
Kidnapped
9

135545-)
This character asks: "A world who would not purchase with a bruise / Or much more grievous pain?" after saying that his head will be bruised by he whose heel he has bruised. This character rejects apologizing with the words: "So should I purchase dear / Short intermission bought with double smart". He declares himself to possess "A mind not to be changed by place or time" in a speech in which he suggests that "Farther from him is best / Whom reason hath equaled, force hath made supreme / Above his equals". Percy (*) Bysshe Shelley said that this character's creator was "of [his] party without knowing it". He describes himself as someone who "utmost power with adverse power opposed / In dubious battle" that he fought "from sense of injured merit". In his most famous speech, he declares: "Better to reign in Hell, than serve in Heaven". For 10 points, name this antagonist from John Milton's Paradise Lost.
Satan [or the Devil]
9

135546-)
In this novel, a doctor who drinks two glasses of water before meals to avoid overeating delivers a diagnosis of "Going Home Syndrome" to an obese taxi driver who collects framed degree certificates and takes up a halfhearted campaign for a mobile library. After her nocturnal binges out of Tupperware containers, this novel's protagonist often recalls the story of "how she was left to her fate." In this novel, a war of pamphlets instigated by the racist Lion Hearts leads The Questioner to fight for control of the (*) Bengal Tigers with the protagonist's lover, the radical garment worker Karim. The elderly extortionist Mrs. Islam keeps plane tickets home out of financial reach from this novel's central family, whose Tower Hamlets flat receives pidgin English letters from Hasina, the sister of Chanu's wife Nazneen. For 10 points, name this chronicle of Bangladeshi immigrants in London, written by Monica Ali.
Brick Lane
9

135549-)
In Richard II, this noun "cries, / Even from the tongueless caverns of the Earth...for justice and rough chastisement" to Bolingbroke, who hails John of Gaunt as its "earthly author" before dueling Mowbray. Exeter beseeches Henry V to rouse himself "as did the former lions" of this noun, which Othello cries out three times after Iago tells him to "be content" with Cassio wiping his beard with Desdemona's handkerchief. In Much Ado About Nothing, Claudio says that "beauty is a witch / Against whose charms faith melteth into" this noun, which Richard III claims to be (*) "so far in" that "sin will pluck on sin." Hamlet raves that at Gertrude's age "the hey-day... is tame" in this noun, which was "cold" during the green judgment of Cleopatra's "salad days." One character says of another "Who would have thought the old man to have had so much" of this "in him". For 10 points, name this noun that "all Great Neptune's ocean" will not wash clean from Macbeth's hand.
my/your/etc. blood
9

135556-)
In order to explain how to use this object, one character repeats the phrase "He kind of spat". In one scene, that character grabs this object while yelling "I didn't vote for no ghosts!". In a later scene, another character cradles this object and rocks to and fro, while repeatedly asking "Didn't you see what [...] they did?" to a character who repeatedly responds "It was an accident" in response to the recent murder, which he claims to have been unable to see. While holding this object, one character asks: "Which is betterÂ—to have rules and agree, or to (*) hunt and kill?" right before he is killed. This object is mistakenly believed to be the target of a night-time raid, which is actually carried out to steal another character's glasses. During assemblies, the only person who can speak is the holder of this object, which is shattered when Roger throws the boulder that kills Piggy. For 10 points, name this symbol of order from Lord of the Flies.
the conch shell
9

135560-)
This work alludes to "Rich arks with priceless bones of martyrdom" found near a man who "Was wounded by blind tongues he saw not whence" until "his soul / Became a fiend" in a section that includes the refrain "The fire of heaven is not the flame of hell." In a section of this work that contrasts Love and Fame, lightning strikes an oak tree in a "wild wood" after a wily "stranger woman" swears an oath in her attempt to learn her Master's charm. In this work, a woman seeking her sister is repeatedly instructed, "Lead, and I follow" by a "blooming boy" whom she marries after they go on a journey despite his mother ordering him to become a (*) "kitchen-knave." In this work, the secret love of "the first in Tournament" hurls nine diamonds into a river bearing the funeral barge of the "lily maid" Elaine of Astolat. For 10 points, name this cycle of twelve poems including "The Marriage of Geraint" and "Gareth and Lynette," an Arthurian epic by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
Idylls of the King [accept specific sections]
9

135565-)
In a novel titled for these people, a woman who played Enobarbus in an all-female production of Antony and Cleopatra changes her locks after learning of her Latin-teaching husband's affair with a statistician. The protagonist of another novel titled for them learns Arabic to escape the drudgery of the Parmenter Committee. A quantum physicist's mad husband markets the hashish-inspired novel Lemonade to these people, who title a novel in which a judge sings, "Down by the Salley Gardens" to accompany the violin played by a (*) Jehovah's witness for whom she orders a transfusion. Quotes from a PM-commissioned handbook on these people open each chapter of a novel in which Stephen Lewis grieves for his abducted daughter Kate. For 10 points, name these people whose welfare is safeguarded by the title Act of a novel by Ian McEwan, author of a novel named for one of these in Time.
children [accept, obviously, The Children Act or The Child in Time; be nice and accept things like kids]
9

135569-)
This character picks up a jug to demonstrate the "democracy of atoms" and illustrates the "nonce-rules" used to create illusory connectedness with a syllogism about the cheese-eating pig Old Snaggle. The "will" of this character mandates that the "Gentlest of men, most winning of manner" "must live in some region / Other than this." One critic argued that this character suits elegy because "a man can die on but his death- day" in a dissent from the "Shylockian plural" applied to him by R. W. (*) Chambers to embody a "wilderness." This "ghostly and grisly guest in his terrors" waxes with "soul-gore seething." A "brute existent" falls through earth to learn from this character about the Shaper but instead is told to "seek out gold and sit on it" by this nihilist, whose hoard is raided by Wiglaf after its defeat. For 10 points, name this character deemed Fafnir's only real counterpart in "The Monsters and the Critics," Tolkien's analysis of Beowulf.
the dragon from Grendel and Beowulf [accept kennings that refer to the dragon]
9

135576-)
This phrase titles a book whose protagonist analyzes the sentence "His face was drawn but the curtains were real" to explain why there are no jokes in the book. The protagonist of a book titled for this phrase carries a bottle of red food coloring with him, because he refuses to eat food that is yellow or brown. That protagonist from a book with this title finds a hidden cache of letters that his mother wrote to him every week, proving that his father lied about her being dead. This phrase identifies the most famous "negative (*) clue" in mystery fiction, which occurs in a story in which curried mutton laced with opium was used as part of a scheme to kidnap a racehorse. This phrase names a novel in which Wellington is stabbed with a garden fork, and the autistic boy Christopher sets out to investigate who killed him; that book is by Mark Haddon. For 10 points, name this phrase from the Sherlock Holmes story "Silver Blaze" that refers to the fact that a canine did not bark.
The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time [be generous, and prompt on a partial answer]
9

135580-)
12. A poem titled for this figure describes "Blind buds that snows have shaken, / Wild leaves that winds have taken, / Red strays of ruined springs". Another poem titled for this figure asks: "Will ye bridle the deep sea with reins, will ye chasten the high sea with rods?" and also asks why man should "bring fresh grief to blacken his years". One poem declares that this figure's "languid lips are sweeter / Than love's who fears to greet her / To men that mix and meet her". A poem titled for this figure declares that: (*) "shark- toothed and serpentine-curled / Rolls under the whitening wind of the future, the wave of the world". A place belonging to this figure is "where all trouble seems / Dead winds' and spent waves' riot / In doubtful dreams of dreams". A poem titled for this deity begins: "I have lived long enough, having seen one thing, that love hath an end". For 10 points, name this Roman goddess whose garden was described by Algernon Charles Swinburne, who also wrote a "Hymn to" her.
Proserpine
9

135586-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist watches a woman slice paper with a samurai sword, and then later has to decide which of three letters to send to apologize for drunkenly beating up that Jewish anthropologist in his cellar, after spilling wine on the carpet of his wife's lover. One of this author's protagonists abruptly breaks off contact with a friend out of guilt for transcribing their philosophical conversations into a novel without asking the friend's permission. The psychoanalyst (*) Palmer Anderson tries to steal Antonia, the wife of Martin Lynch-Gibbon, in a novel by this author. A book titled "Elegy for" this author chronicled her struggle with Alzheimer's and was written by her husband John Bayley. With the help of "Finn" O'Finney, the aging canine actor Mister Mars is kidnapped by the philosophical author Jake Donaghue in her breakout novel. For 10 points, name this 20th-century British author of A Severed Head and Under the Net.
(Jean) Iris Murdoch
9

135591-)
One essay by this author points out that Thales, Emepedocles, and Pythagoras all carried out their philosophical discourse in verse rather than prose, and begins by describing John Pietro Pugliano's speech in praise of horse-riding. That essay by him counters Plato by arguing that poetry lies the least of all disciplines because it is the only one that does not claim to portray truth. He wrote a work in which a husband and wife have sex in a cave, while each believing themselves to be sleeping with a different person, after which the husband drinks what he thinks is a love potion and falls into a coma, which is mistaken for death by the wife. (*) Percy Bysshe Shelley took inspiration from this author's The Defence of Poesy to write a similarly titled tract. In this author's most famous prose work, the Amazonian warrior Zelmane is really Pyrocles in drag, trying to woo Philoclea, the daughter of Basilius. For 10 points, name this Elizabethan author of The Countess of Pembroke's Arcadia.
Sir Philip Sidney
9

135595-)
In a tale within a tale, a character of this profession cites an anecdote from Seneca about how Cambyses used a bow-and-arrow to kill the son of a knight who was complaining of Cambyses' drunkenness. In a tale told by one of these people, a horse is not confiscated when its owner says "The devil take you" because the owner didn't really mean it. The pilgrim with this profession lisps to make his English sound sweet and keeps knives and pins "to give away to pretty wives". The squire to one of these characters provides the idea of using a (*) cartwheel to divide a smell into twelve shares to give to other members of this profession. In a tale told by one of these people, a demon wins a frying pan and the body and soul of a summoner. In revenge, The Summoner tells a tale in which Thomas farts on the hand of one of these people. For 10 points, Huberd from The Canterbury Tales is what sort of religious mendicant?
friar [do NOT prompt on or accept "monk" or "priest" or any other such word, since a friar is none of these things]
9

135598-)
In this story, a "vast image" is built up by an anecdote about a man who defects from a German's tiny opposition group by standing up and shouting, "Credo!" This story ends with a character entreating listeners to "be straight and manly" by opening their books and verifying their accounts. The "magic- lantern business" of candles is a bridge too far for this story's protagonist, who repeatedly claims, "Sha, 's nothing" after collapsing in a bar and biting off part of his tongue. This story's central characters praise the grandeur of the (*) Jesuits and debate Leo XIII's motto before discussing papal infallibility. This story ends at a retreat for businessmen with a hollow sermon on the parable of the unjust steward given by Father Purdon. For 10 points, name this story in which M'Coy, Cunningham and Power stage a spiritual intervention for the reluctant ex- Protestant Kernan, the penultimate story in Dubliners.
"Grace"
9

135606-)
After "a thousand" visions of this character trouble another's sleep, he gets up and sees this character making a "ceaseless low cry" while carrying a candle up the stairs. This character is the speaker of a poem that ends, "Don't think it's only the heart that b-b-b-breaks." The Bougainvillean girl Matilda sees mannequins of this character and her creator at Eastgate House at the end of a novel by Lloyd Jones. One character falsely claims that this character owns dogs that eat veal cutlets and that she eats cake while sitting in a velvet (*) coach. As she dies, this character repeats the phrases "What have I done" and "Take the pencil and write under my name, 'I forgive her.'" She encourages her adopted daughter to break the heart of an orphan who is in the custody of her lawyer Mr. Jaggers. For 10 points, name this character who stops all the clocks in Satis House after Compeyson jilts her at the altar in Great Expectations.
Miss Havisham
9

135610-)
In this story, several characters enjoy turning the sound off on the television whenever politicians are making speeches, to make them look ridiculous. A character in this story tears some bark off of a tree and eats it shortly after recalling finding his father's corpse lying in a pool of his own blood. That character in this story imagines lining up "posh whores, penpushers, [and] army officers" against a wall and shooting them in one of many passages in which he defends an alternate definition of (*) "honesty". The protagonist of this story is captured after a rainstorm causes money to start pouring out of the drainpipe where he stashed it. Its protagonist repeatedly distinguishes between authority-supporting "In-laws" and "Outlaws" like himself, who was arrested and put away for robbing a bakery with Mike. For 10 points, Smith lets Gunthorpe pass him in a race to spite the governor of the Borstal in what story by Alan Sillitoe?
 The Loneliness of the Long-Distance Runner
9

135614-)
One of this author's protagonists finds Rubens' portrait of Cleopatra when left to wander in a gallery, and is dismayed at how fat Cleopatra appears. That one of this author's protagonists believes herself to be haunted by the ghost of a nun that was buried alive under a pear tree for failing to keep her vows. A character created by this author provides the title for a book that claims that 19th-century English literature tends to treat women as either "angels" or "monsters"; that book is the most famous work of Sandra (*) Gilbert and Susan Gubar. In one novel by her, John Bretton and Paul Emanuel are the romantic options Lucy Snowe chooses between in the title Belgian city. The Madwoman in the Attic is titled for a character created by this author of Villette; that character burns Thornfield Hall down, blinding her husband Edward Rochester. For 10 points, name this author of Jane Eyre.
Charlotte Bronte [prompt on "Bronte"]
9

135617-)
While sitting hidden in an unobserved chair, this character watches two men thrust a ruler under a woman's skirts to measure her ankles. This character ruins an attempted seduction by yelling "How dare you?! ..You silly, common girl!" when the woman he tried to seduce playfully smacks him on the bottom, shortly after he offered her a confection called the Nipples of Venus. At the end of the first act of the play in which he appears, he asks: "What use, after all, is Man, if not to teach (*) God His lessons?". This character learns rumors through characters called the Venticelli. He encourages another character to include the Masonic rituals in a singspiel, thus enraging Baron von Sweiten and ruining the man who vies with him for the approval of Emperor Joseph. For 10 points, name this fictionalization of a historical composer, the villain-protagonist of Peter Shaffer's Amadeus.
Antonio Salieri
9

135626-)
This work declares: "Like leaves on trees the race of man is found-- / Now green in youth, now withering on the ground". Matthew Arnold criticized lines in this work, such as: "The life which others pay, let us bestow, / And give to fame what to nature we owe" for using an antithesis unsuited to the feeling of the poem. Samuel Johnson called this work "a performance which no age or nation can pretend to equal". Its creator's reputation was tarnished when half of its sequel was ghostwritten by (*) Elijah Fenton and William Broome. This work uses phrases like "wat'ry waste" for an epithet now more commonly rendered as "wine-dark sea". This work, which was completed in 1720, begins: "Achilles' wrath, to Greece the direful spring / Of woes unnumber'd, heavnly goddess, sing!". For 10 points, name this translation of an Ancient Greek epic by the English poet of The Dunciad.
Alexander Pope's translation of Homer's Iliad [prompt on "Iliad"; if they buzz on the first clue, you may specifically ask: "which version?"]
9

135631-)
The narrator of this book imagines the predicament of 16th-century noblemen who kept accidentally walking in on Henry VIII making out with Anne Boleyn. In one scene in this book, characters laugh uproariously through what they were told was the funniest German song ever written, only to find out that they have offended the singer, because it's actually the saddest German song ever written. The protagonists of this book injure themselves while beating the hell out of a can of pineapple to try to open it without a can-opener. This book opens with the narrator reading a (*) medical dictionary and discovering that he has every illness except for housemaid's knee. Its sequel is about a cycling tour in Germany and is titled for its protagonists "on the Bummel". For 10 points, name this comic novel in which the dog Montmorency accompanies George, Harris, and the narrator on a vacation on the Thames, by Jerome K. Jerome
Three Men in a Boat (To Say Nothing of the Dog)
9

135634-)
This character goes up to an armchair and eats stale cakes to apologize for attacking a hooded man who incites his jealousy with weekly 2:30-4:30 visits. The "startled eyes of hazel bland" of this cologne-hating character shine light on "a curtained room / Where no sunbeam brake the gloom." A visit to Pisa stirs acceptance of top-knots in this "loving fellow-creature," even though he feels aristocratic for drinking from the purple jar that he drains three times after escaping a room full of parrots in a Whitechapel rookery where he is ransomed by Mr. (*) Taylor. Numerous scent-fueled love affairs are pursued from the open doors of Casa Guidi by this character, whose "head as hairy as Faunus" dries the tears of the author whose back bedroom he inhabits after leaving the Mitfords for Wimpole Street. For 10 points, name this pet of the author of Aurora Leigh, the subject of a parodic biography by Virginia Woolf.
Flush [accept Elizabeth Barrett Browning's spaniel or Mrs. Barrett's spaniel; accept any answers referring to a (cocker) spaniel, dog, canine, pet, or clear-knowledge equivalent animal owned by Elizabeth Barrett Browning]
9

135637-)
One of this author's poems declares: "Sweet is the Cypress, but his rind is tough / Sweet is the nut, but bitter is his pill". In one poem, he says that his beloved's bosom smells like "a Strawberry bed" when comparing the scent of her kiss to a garden. In another poem, he looks into his beloved's eyes and sees that "Legions of loves with little wings did fly / Darting their deadly arrows fiery bright". One of his poems addresses the "Nymphs of Mulla which with careful heed, / The silver scaly trouts do tend full well". Lord Byron's (*) Childe Harold's Pilgrimage employs a stanza form named for this author, which involves eight lines of iambic pentameter followed by one alexandrine line. He wrote a marriage ode for Elizabeth Boyle that is paired with a collection whose pages he addresses by saying: "Happy ye leaves when as those lily hands" handle them. For 10 points, name this English author of the Epithalamion and the sonnet sequence Amoretti.
Edmund Spenser
9

135639-)
The concluding section of this poem describes a child as a "fairy thing with red round cheeks" and a "limber elf". One figure in this poem is described as having "gems entangled in her hair" and "unsandl'd" "blue-veined feet", when she first appears. That character in this poem drinks a cordial wine that was made from wild flowers by another character's dead mother. In this poem, one character tells a dream about an herb-green snake coiling around the neck of a dove. The line: "A sight to (*) dream of, not to tell!" is used to describe a mark on one character's breast, which is revealed when she undresses before sharing a bed with this poem's title character. The bard Bracy serves the title character's father, Sir Leoline, who agrees to come to the aid of a woman who was found wandering in the woods. For 10 points, the title woman is enchanted by the lesbian vampire Geraldine in what unfinished poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge?
"Christabel"
9

135650-)
One character in this play sees two others fighting and comments that "the cuckold and the cuckold- maker are at it", before being challenged to fight by a bastard, and replying: "I love bastards: I am a bastard begot, bastard instructed, bastard in mind". Another character in this play declares that "One touch of nature makes the whole world kin" in a speech that begins "Time hath, my lord, a wallet at his back / Wherein he puts alms for oblivion". One character in this play witnesses a woman give away a (*) sleeve to another man, who promises to wear it in battle. In this play's third act, Calchas asks to exchange Antenor for his daughter. Thersites' jokes antagonize characters in this play, whose second title character flirts with Diomedes and is the niece of Pandarus. For 10 points, name this "problem play" by Shakespeare about a pair of Trojan lovers.
Troilus and Cressida
9

135658-)
The narrator of one novel by this author slaps his lover after she reveals that they have been having sex in the room of the other woman he secretly loves at Ferns. One of this author's characters briefly hears rain falling on the iron roof of the Picture-House when the projector is turned back on as he kisses a green- toothed girl. A monograph on Pierre Bonnard is never finished by that character, who breaks a wineglass in his hand at a funeral for a woman who takes visceral photographs of patients while hospitalized after meeting with the death consultant Mr. Todd. A (*) science historian explains to Clio why he abandons his book in a reworking of Goethe's Elective Affinities by this author, who wrote a novel entwining the narrator's memories of his dead wife Anna with those of his childhood games with the twins Myles and Chloe Grace at the Cedars. For 10 points, name this Irish author of The Newton Letter and The Sea.
(William) John Banville [accept Benjamin Black, his crime novel nom de plume]
9

135660-)
One character in this novel remembers horoscopes all day to confirm that they have come true, in sharp contrast to a doctor who denies his guilt with statements like, "Not to my knowledge." In this novel, a housekeeper uses gum to make imprints of keyholes while burning potatoes distract her household, and later tails her employer on his visits to an actress whom he pays to expose her garter-tips. A poet in this novel rants that taking up with Dylan Thomas has damned Lisa Brooke to hell at her cremation party, which kicks off a dispute over her will based on her bigamous marriage to the critic (*) Guy Leet. In this novel, Mrs Pettigrew attempts to blackmail Godfrey Colston, who along with his novelist wife Charmian is observed as a case study by the gerontologist Alec Warner. For 10 points, name this novel in which many elderly people receive phone calls saying, "Remember you must die," a work by Muriel Spark.
Memento Mori
9

135661-)
In a novel with this title, a character who divides his self into "meat" and "soul" is rejected by an elderly NYU teacher for a portfolio without passion after he stops carrying messages for a Mussolini sympathizer. After a character with this name goes on a business trip, his new wife nearly breaks her neck on the stairs while her friends admire their gold and silver. In a novel with this title, Edith is told to hold her husband's wake in the potato barn housing the horrific WWII scene Now It's the Women's Turn, the only non-Sateen Dura-Luxe painting left by an (*) Armenian abstract expressionist whose life is shaken up by Circe Berman. The "autobiography" of Rabo Karabekian shares this title with the central Aarne-Thompson type 312 folktale, which includes the variant "The Brahmin Girl that Married a Tiger." For 10 points, name this story about a nobleman who keeps a locked room full of his dead wives, a folktale modernized by Charles Perrault.
"Bluebeard" [or "La Barbe bleue"]
9

135663-)
In a play by this author, a character cuts the stems off of some roses to make them fit into a vase in which he has hidden an incriminating shoe. A character created by him declares: "God is a gentleman. He prefers blondes.", after a box containing another character's stomach explodes, destroying the only evidence in a murder case. In a play by him, a policeman who has been given an accidental overdose of pills wanders around in a leopard-print dress while trying to recover the lost penis of (*) Winston Churchill. Nurse McMahon poisons Mrs. McLeavy, whose coffin is used by her son to hide the money he robbed from a bank in a play by him. Dr. Prentice's mental hospital is inspected by Dr. Rance in a farce by this author that was premiered after he was murdered by his lover, Kenneth Halliwell. For 10 points, name this 20th-century British playwright of such ultra-dark comedies as Loot and What the Butler Saw.
(John Kingsley) "Joe" Orton
9

135667-)
One poem by this author describes "balsam-pines that are blue with the grey-blue blueness of / things from the sea" that "stand so still / in the thunder air." A poem by this author set "By the Isar, in the twilight" ends with the speaker watching the "white, unfolding petals" of a woman's wet shoulders flashing "As if roses fought with roses." The speaker asks, "How could murder, even self-murder / ever a quietus make?" in a poem by him that opens with the image of "apples (*) falling like great drops of dew / to bruise themselves an exit from themselves." In another poem by this author, the "honoured" pyjama-clad speaker hears "The voice of [his] education" say, "If you were a man / You would take a stick and break" a "king in exile" "from the burning bowels of the earth." In that poem by him, a man misses his "chance with one of the lords / Of life" by throwing a "clumsy log" at a visitor to his water-trough. For 10 points, name this author of "Ship of Death" and "Snake."
D(avid) H(erbert) Richards Lawrence
9

135670-)
The protagonist of this novel teaches his girlfriend the English names of flowers on picnics during a series of joyful legal repeals. A Vatican priest arranges a Portuguese villa for this novel's protagonist after he is repeatedly demoted during a rocky relationship with Irene, who first appears drunkenly threatening to report him to the New York Times. The pharmacy at AMS is restocked with drugs purchased from prostitutes by this novel's narrator, who describes overcoming his aversion to a "universe... made of shit" where "there is no why" to explain the reason he (*) reanimates bodies by removing pills after creating them from fire. "Uncle Pepi" extracts gas from patients in Block 10's Sprinkleroom in this novel, whose narrator assumes the alias Tod Friendly to conceal his true identity, Odilo Unverdorben. For 10 points, name this novel following the life of a doctor at Auschwitz in reverse chronology, a work by Martin Amis.
Time's Arrow: or The Nature of the Offence [accept either underlined portion]
9

135672-)
In response to the first chapter of this book, Henry Sidgwick claimed that what society needed was "fire and strength", a claim considered in this work's final chapter. In this work, two strains of thinking are dichotomized as strictness vs. spontaneity of consciousness. This work defines perfection as: "the growth and predominance of our humanity proper", and calls the first title entity "the study of perfection". This work claims that "the sheer desire to see things as they are" is the (*) "scientific passion" that distinguishes the first title entity from religion. This work, which distinguishes between Hellenism and Hebraism, defines its first title entity as "the best which has been thought and said in the world", and calls the lower classes, the aristocracy, and the middle classes the Populace, the Barbarians, and the Philistines. For 10 points, name this major work of social criticism by Matthew Arnold.
Culture and Anarchy
9

135675-)
A poem cycle titled for one of these people describes the "shrilly noise of puddocks' feeble wail" and "huge black beetles, revelling alone" humming a "heavy drone", and also describes a time when "The thatch-moss grows in brighter green; / And eaves in quick succession drop, / Where grinning icicles have been". A person of this type is the addressee of a poem whose speaker declares: "A honey tongue, a heart of gall / Is fancy's spring, but sorrow's fall", and describes a time when "Philomel becometh dumb". John Clare wrote a (*) "calendar" for one of these. Walter Raleigh wrote a "reply" to a poem spoken by one, who promises another person "A cap of flower, and a kirtle / Embroidered all with leaves of myrtle" in a poem that declares: "we will all the pleasures prove" that fields yield. For 10 points, the line "Come live with me and be my love" opens a poem by Christopher Marlowe spoken to his love by a "passionate" member of what profession?
shepherd
9

135685-)
An author with this first name wrote a novel in which the male love interest finally learns of the protagonist's feelings for him, when he overhears her confessing those feelings to his kidnapped dog. The protagonist of that novel, whose author has this first name, is pursued at a masquerade ball by someone dressed as the devil, but is then rescued by someone dressed as a white domino. A character with this first name falls in love with Charles, who is kidnapped by his own father and sent to the South Seas. That character with this first name (*) masturbates for the first time while watching the pimp Mrs. Brown have sex with a customer, before herself becoming a prostitute in Mrs. Cole's brothel. An author with this name created a heroine who rejects Sir Robert Floyer in order to marry Mortimer Delville. For 10 points, name this first name of John Cleland's most famous title character and of the author of Cecilia, a certain Ms. Burney.
Fanny [or Frances]
9

135688-)
A place in this country names a play in which one character claims to have been "1.93 years younger than the century" the first time he met another character. A character in this country shoots a colleague with a cap pistol to prove that it is not always faster to act than react, in a play in which a character who repeatedly asks what things mean "in plain language" contrasts with a character who has the motto: "If something works it works". A character in this country imagines what it is like to be alive in a (*) coffin thinking: "well, at least I'm not dead!" In this country, a boy named Alfred is made to put on a skirt to portray the Sabine Women by the leader of a pack of Tragedians. A city in this country titles a Michael Frayn play about a meeting between Werner Heisenberg and Niels Bohr. For 10 points, name this country that is the setting for Tom Stoppard's Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
Kingdom of Denmark
9

135691-)
In a long speech in this play, one character suggests that a man's "respectability" is determined by how many things he is ashamed of. That character in this play mistakenly attributes a quote by Beaumarchais to Voltaire, only to be corrected by a man who dreams of breaking the world record for travel between Paris and Biskra. In this play's third act, the author of "The Revolutionist's Handbook and Pocket Companion" is captured in the Sierra Nevadas with his chauffeur by the brigand (*) Mendoza. One character discusses Life Force with a woman, a statue, and The Devil in a scene of this play that parodies moments from a Mozart opera. In the first act of this play, Roebuck Ramsden is named a joint guardian of Anne Whitefield together with Jack Tanner. For 10 points, the scene "Don Juan in Hell" appears in what play by George Bernard Shaw, which takes its name from a concept by Nietzsche?
Man and Superman
9

135696-)
One story by this author describes a man cutting the head and paws off of a trapped creature in a pit, which turns into a human corpse. The protagonist of that story by this author is a girl who encounters a hunter in a green coat, who bets her a kiss that he can use a compass to beat her to her destination. She created a character who loses her virginity to her husband in a bed surrounded by a dozen mirrors while she wears a ruby choker. This author of "The Company of Wolves" gave a fictionalized account of (*) Jeanne Duval, the black mistress of Baudelaire, in the title story of her collection Black Venus. She wrote a novel in which Jack Walser becomes enamored of Sophie Fevvers, an aerialist who grew wings after hatching from an egg. For 10 points, name this author who wrote the novel Nights at the Circus and who gave feminist reinterpretations of fairy tales in The Bloody Chamber and Other Stories.
Angela Carter
9

135700-)
The speaker of a Thom Gunn poem titled for this adjective is "condemned to be / An individual" and "Walk through hypothesis." This adjective does not describe those who "had no politicians and sang at their ease" according to "Refugee Blues." "Little Gidding" evokes "The intolerable shirt of flame" that cannot be removed by power described by this adjective. In a poem titled for this adjective, the "Catterpiller and Fly / feed on the Mystery" that "bears the fruit of Deceit." This adjective describes the "sleeping head" of the speaker's love on his (*) "faithless arm" in W. H. Auden's "Lullaby." "Ode on a Grecian Urn" recalls "All breathing... passion far above" of this adjective, which all things that "are subject to decay" are described by according to Mac Flecknoe. For 10 points, name this title adjective of an "Abstract" from Blake's Songs of Experience, which describes error contrasted with divine forgiveness in "An Essay on Criticism."
human (The leadin is from Thom Gunn's "The Human Condition.")
9

135705-)
[NOTE to moderator: please read the second sentence fairly slowly, making sure to read out loud the words that appear inside the brackets.]One of this author's characters invents an apparatus for diluting water, and believes that night is caused by "black air" from volcanic eruptions. The narration of one novel by him is filled with the following typical construction: "Brinsley was at the window giving chuckles out. ["paragraph break"] Nature of Chuckles ["colon"]: Quiet, private, averted." An imprint of Norton that published the works of William Gass and William Gaddis is named after a novel by him. After trying to retrieve the cash box that he stole with John (*) Divney, one of his characters finds himself trapped in the company of the bicycle-obsessed policeman, MacCruisken and Pluck. In another work by this author of The Dalkey Archive, Anthony Lamont and John Furriskey are characters in a novel-within-a-novel who drug their creator and put him on trial. For 10 points, name this Irish author of The Third Policeman and At Swim-Two-Birds.
Flann O'Brien [or Brian O'Nolan]
9

135710-)
In this drama, the protagonist exclaims "Out, out, hyÃ¦na" when approached byhis wife and refuses her offers of care, saying "No, no, of my condition take no care/It fits not; thou and I long since are twain". The protagonist of this drama challengesa giant three times to a fight, but each time is denied by that man, (+) Harapha ofGath. The protagonist refuses to go with the Public Officer to perform at a feast, but the Chorus convinces him to go after all. The protagonist's father (*) Manoa visits to negotiate a ransom while his son is performing at a feast for Dagon the sea-idol. The protagonist finds "Himself in bonds under Philistian yoke" and laments being "Eyeless in Gaza". For ten points, name this closet drama about a fallen strongman, the husband of Dalila, written by John Milton.
Samson Agonistes
7

135716-)
The protagonist of this novel plays a game of checkers with whiskey bottle pieces,and he met his secretary when she spilled Coke on a policeman at the TropicanaClub. A dog dies from drinking the protagonist's poisoned whiskey when he speaks ata luncheon of the (+) European Traders Association. The protagonist communicateswith his boss Hawthorne using Lamb's Tales From Shakespeare as a book code. Police Captain Segura courts the protagonist's daughter (*) Milly but does not investigate the murder of his friend Dr. Hasselbacher. Drawings of the Atomic Pile are passed off as constructions in Oriente, causing the protagonist and his partner Beatrice Severn to be fired by their bosses in London. For ten points, name this novel about Joe Wormold, a vacuum-cleaner-salesman-turned- spy written by Graham Greene.
Our Man in Havana
7

135721-)
In this novella, elite students are taught at the University of Wentbridge. In onesociety in this novella, all births are of triplets with two girls and one boy in orderto maintain gender balance. The character of Chromatistes starts the (+) ColourRevolt, which is opposed by women and priests. Rain always falls from the north, and fog aids characters in Sight Recognition, an alternative to feeling. The narrator is visited by a stranger who removes an accounting tablet from a locked (*) cupboard, and the protagonist is later imprisoned for espousing the motto "Upward, not Northward!". Women in this novella are line segments and men are polygons. For ten points, name this novella by Edwin Abbott, written under the pseudonym A Square, that explores two-dimensional life.
Flatland: A Romance of Many Dimensions
7

135726-)
One character in this play recognizes her long-lost brother by a hair twirl.Another character in this play spent the previous day looking for chicken wire, butonly came back with a London newspaper. After his Rolls-Royce gets caught in the(+) snow, Mr. Paravicini enters unexpectedly. The radio reports the murder of Mrs. Maureen Lyon, who had been imprisoned in the Longridge Farm case. Sergeant Trotter of the Berkshire police enters on (*) skis. Mrs. Boyle is strangled and found by the proprietress Mollie Ralston, and the culprit is eventually revealed to be the pseudonymous Georgie. Trotter had been tipped off by a note with the address of Monkswell Manor and the music to Three Blind Mice. For ten points, name this murder mystery play by Agatha Christie.
The Mousetrap
7

135728-)
This character has his servants carry in and remove a table of food to tantalizetwo guests before declaring "I am Power." This character becomes distrustful whenhe hears the song of Eshu. In another appearance, this man warns his daughter'sbetrothed not to "break her (+) virgin-knot". This man, who was adapted into aslavemaster by Aime Cesaire, discovers a chess match before his daughter remarks "How beauteous mankind is! O (*) brave new world". He orders a performance by Iris, Ceres, and Juno before declaring that "We are such stuff as dreams are made on". This "wronged Duke of Milan" is the subject of a coup attempt by Stephano and Trinculo, for which he pardons Caliban before freeing Ariel. For ten points, name this man who is marooned with his daughter Miranda in Shakespeare's The Tempest.
Prospero
7

135729-)
In this novel, a party crasher on a trans-Atlantic boat trip is likened to thecartoon character Captain Foulenough. The protagonist and two friends are jailedafter a night on the town with girls they call Death's Head and Sickly Child. Foursiblings in this novel debate the role of the (+) priest in the last rites after theirfather turned away Father Mackay on his deathbed. One character tries to convert to Catholicism for his wedding ceremony, but cannot because he had been divorced. The protagonist's friend carries a (*) teddy bear named Aloysius at Oxford and ends up an alcoholic in Tangier. The protagonist divorces his wife Celia Mulcaster to marry his mistress Julia Mottram, the sister of his friend Sebastian Flyte. For ten points, name this novel about Charles Ryder written by Evelyn Waugh.
Brideshead Revisited
7

135737-)
Several characters in this play whistle The Mountains of Morne. During an interrogation, one character questions whether 846 is necessary or possible, and that man resents his nickname of (+) "Simey". One character claims to have around-the-world tour starting in Berlin playing piano, and he is given a drum by a lady who claims to have been the "belle of the ball". The second act ends after the (*) lights go out on a game of Blind Man's Bluff, during which Lulu had been fondled. The central character is silently taken away from the boarding house of Meg and Petey Boles by two men who had arrived the previous day, Goldberg and McCann. For ten points, name this play about a celebration for Stanley written by Harold Pinter.
The Birthday Party
7

135745-)
The narrator of this poem confesses that he would have traded his only pair ofblue pants to see teen girls so scantily dressed. In this poem, two deceased unchristenedbabies and a hanged criminal are seen on the "holy table". One character sees theAlloway (+) Church lit up, and inside sees the devil in the form of a black dog playingmusic on the pipes. This poem begins in Ayr with the central figure drinking ales with (*) Souter Johnny before departing on his mare Maggie. After shouting "Well done, Cutty-sark", this poem's central figure is chased by witches who pull off his horse's tail as they reach a bridge over the river Doon. For ten points, name this poem about a man's unusual ride home after a night of boozing written by Robert Burns.
Tam o' Shanter
7

135755-)
A psychologist in this work uses the spokes of a spinning wheel and the flight of abullet to verify the threshold of diluted presentation. The protagonist of this novellafinds a group of foreigners dumb because when he tries to indicate time by pointingto the sun, they think he is signaling thunder. The protagonist uses (+) camphor hefound hermetically sealed in a museum to burn his path behind him as he escaped from the Palace of Green Porcelain to a bronze chamber near a (*) white marble sphinx. This story, told primarily as a monologue to a group of journalist dinner guests, includes a forest fire that killed the protagonist's companion Weena, a member of the Eloi, while he ran from the Morlocks. For ten points, name this novella by H. G. Wells in which the protagonist visits 802,701 A.D.
The Time Machine
7

135763-)
The generosity of one character in this play is inspired by the opera Ernani.Another character in this play is ordered to slam a bag down on some ice pudding.This play opens with tales of a victory at (+) Slivnitza, but later acts revolve ongetting three regiments to Phillipopolis. Two characters' deception in this play is revealed by a picture in a coat pocket signed to a man who had explained the foolish (*) cavalry charge of her betrothed, her "chocolate cream soldier". The servant Nicola comes onto the maid Louka, who is pursued by the army officer Sergius Saranoff, who is engaged to Raina, who saves the life of Captain Bluntschli during a war between Bulgaria and the Servs. For ten points, name this play about the Petkoff family written by George Bernard Shaw.
Arms and the Man                                                                                                                                                                                            
7

135765-)
This poet wrote of "country comets" "shining unto no higher end/ than topresage the grass's fall" in The Mower to the Glowworms. This poet suggested thatApollo and Pan pursued Daphne and Syrinx for the plants they became in a workwhose first stanza notes that "all flowers and all trees...weave the garlands of (+)repose". In that work, he wrote that "No white nor red was ever seen/ So amorous as this lovely green" in praise of that "happy (*) garden-state/ While man there walked without a mate". He urged to "tear/ Thorough the iron gates of life" and to "roll all our strength and all/ Our sweetness up into one ball" in another poem. This poet of The Garden wrote that his "vegetable love" could grow "Till the conversion of the Jews" if only he had "world enough and time". For ten points, name this poet of To His Coy Mistress.
Andrew Marvell
7

135766-)
One character in this novel does not prepare anything for the Spring Exchangeand is told by his teacher that he does not need to be creative. Another character isthis novel cries after lying about the source of her pencil box. Three friends visit awashed-up (+) boat in a marsh, and earlier had traveled to Norfolk with Rodney andChrissie in search of a "possible" for Ruth since Norfolk is England's "lost corner". The narrator works on an essay about Victorian novels at (*) The Cottages, and earlier had made Madame cry by dancing with a pillow, her "baby", to a Judy Bridgewater song. Tommy completes after his fourth donation, and after leaving Hailsham, Kathy works as a carer. For ten points, name this novel about organ-donating clones by Kazuo Ishiguro.
Never Let Me Go                                                                                                                                                                                                       
7

135772-)
In one work by this author, the narrator mentions giving away copies of Omar Khayyam in a monologue criticizing Christmas presents. Another title character of this writer ate a gipsy child before being hit by a car, resulting in a diamond broach for the on-looking baroness. In addition to (+) Reginald and Esme the hyena, he wrote of a woman for whom "Romance at short notice was her specialty". While on a Carpathian hunting trip, a fallen (*) limb traps two enemies, Georg Znaeym and Ulrich von Gradwitz, until wolves arrive. One character's sudden departure in one story is explained with a dog chase in India, although he had earlier been told that the returning hunting crew had been dead for three years. For ten points, name this author of the short stories The Interlopers and The Open Window.
Saki or Hector Hugh Munro
7

135779-)
One character in this work is appalled when a friend tells her that her dress "willbe heavier soon by the weight of a man." Another character in this play is told not toswear by his sword, but to eat it, and he had earlier ended a string of back-and-forth(+) insults saying "I would my horse had the speed of your tongue"; that man was called a "the prince's jester: a very dull fool" while disguised at a ball. A wedding is (*) canceled when the groom declares the bride's "blush is guiltiness, not modesty". The report of "comprehend[ing] two auspicious persons" is given by the constable Dogberry. A liaison between Margaret and Borachio causes a rift between Claudio and Hero. For ten points, name this play culminating in the marriage of Beatrice and Benedick written by William Shakespeare.
Much Ado About Nothing
7

135784-)
A group of girls in this work sing to kiss Gwennie or give her a penny. Theclock has been stopped for fifty years at a bar in this work called Sailors Arms, runby Sinbad. Mr Utah Watkins counts sheep at Salt Lake Farm, and another characteris told of his drunken antics by his wife, (+) Mrs Cherry Owen. Dai Bread has twowives and Mrs Ogmore-Pritchard nags her two former husbands. The central town is woken up by a sermon on (*) Coronation Street delivered by Reverend Eli Jenkins. This work features romances between Lily Smalls and Nogood Boyo and between the businessman Mog and Myfanwy Price. This work opens with the dreams of characters including Captain Cat and Organ Morgan. For ten points, identify this "play for voices" about the residents of Llaregub written by Dylan Thomas.
Under Milk Wood
7

135787-)
One character in this novel writes the story The Mountain Eyrie about a fiancethought to have died in World War I surviving in the hills. Another character uses theexamples of Florence Nightingale and Anna Pavlova to demonstrate that women don'tneed "team spirit". After being told to fight for (+) Franco, Joyce Emily Hammonddies in a train attack in Spain. This novel's protagonist was seen kissing the one-armed teacher in the art room; (*) Mr. Lloyd later paints Rose Stanley, who is "famous for sex", and sleeps with Sandy, who betrays the protagonist to Miss Mackay for her fascist sympathies. The protagonist insists that "All my pupils are the cr`eme de la cr`eme". For ten points, name this novel about a girls' school teacher and her "set" of six chosen proteges written by Muriel Spark.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie
7

135789-)
In this work, a thousand sprites use their wings to "twitch" the diamond in acharacter's ear to aid Crispissa. One man sacrifices in fire "three garters, half a pairof gloves/ and all the trophies of his former loves". The third canto of this poemdescribes a game of (+) Ombre, after which Clarissa hands the aforementioned man aweapon. The central character, based on Arabella Fermor, is guarded by sylphs. The victim throws snuff in the (*) Baron's nose and demands the return of a stolen object, which then ascends into the heavens, after Umbriel's intervention to Sir Plume in the Cave of Spleen. This poem opens "What dire offence from am'rous causes springs/ What mighty contests rise from trivial things". For ten points, name this mock epic about Belinda's haircut by Alexander Pope.
The Rape of the Lock
7

135798-)
A lady in this work cautions that when husbands pay attention to their wivesin public, "it makes people think that he beats her when they're alone". Anothercharacter repeatedly asks whether "this will be the last ball of the season", gettingdifferent answers each time. The central character of this play finds three questionable(+) payments totalling 1700 pounds when she cuts open her husband's bank book. In the third act, one character states that "we are all in the gutter, but some of us are looking at the stars." A woman returns an unopened (*) letter from the title character to her husband and claims to have accidentally misplaced the title object at Lord Darlington's place. For ten points, name this play about the title lady suspicious of her husband's affairs with Mrs. Erlynne written by Oscar Wilde.
Lady Windermere's Fan
7

135802-)
By one account, this character was "raimented in snowy white" with a "pearlgarland" wound about her head, but a later account omits these descriptions. Thischaracter's home is on an island where "Four gray walls, and four gray towers,overlook a space of (+) flowers". This character is roused by hearing the song "tirralirra, tirra lirra" in a work told in AAAABCCCB rhyme scheme. This woman is only known to the reaper and only by her (*) singing voice. Her demise is preceded by a mirror cracking "side to side", and her body is found in a boat beneath a sign saying "The web was woven curiously, The charm is broken utterly". She dies floating downriver after stealing a glance at a passing Lancelot. For ten points, name this woman cursed to weave near Camelot in two poems by Lord Tennyson.
the Lady of Shalott
7

135818-)
This poem describes the Sun "flecked with bars" "As if through a dungeon-gratehe peered". The speaker of this poem repeats that he "blessed them unaware" uponseeing the beauty of water-snakes. One character bites arm and sucks his blood beforeannouncing the arrival of a (+) figure with locks "yellow as gold" and skin "white asleprosy" who wins a game of dice. Rain causes two hundred men to rise a week after their encounter with (*) Life-in-Death. The speaker is saved from a whirlpool by "The Pilot" and his boy. The speaker takes the blame for the breeze stopping blowing, but laments having "Water, water, every where/ Nor any drop to drink" after using a cross-bow to shoot an albatross. For ten points, name this poem about the tale of an old sailor written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner
7

135819-)
In contrast with Athens, this work claims that in England, one is only allowedto rail against the common man and not the powerful. A group of philosophers inthis work claim that "Words are but wind, and learning is nothing but words; ergo,learning is nothing but wind" and are called the (+) Aeolists. One character developsa universal pickle to preserve people and buildings. The narrative is broken up by digressions, including one "in Praise of Digressions". (*) Three brothers pluck out the individual letters to spell "shoulder knots" from their father's will to justify modifying their coats. This work's name comes from a diversionary tactic used by seamen against whales, as told in Hobbes's Leviathan. For ten points, name this satire about Peter, Martin, and Jack written by Jonathan Swift.
A Tale of a Tub
7

135826-)
One character in this work adopts the identity of Fighting Bob who kills a mana week; that character wants to duel standing sideways until his second convinceshim to stand broad so that the bullets cut right through. The character of Julia inthis play is brought to tears when (+) Faulkland asks about her mirthful singing.The protagonist earns the trust of a lady by reading her a letter stating his intent to use her as a go-between, and she calls him "the very (*) pineapple of politeness". A duel instigated by Lucius O'Trigger is foiled by Sir Anthony. An heiress in this work wants to lose her 3000 pound fortune by eloping with Ensign Beverley. For ten points, identify this comedy of manners in which Lydia Languish is wooed by Captain Absolute under the watch of Miss Malaprop written by Richard Sheridan.
The Rivals
7

135827-)
One short story by this author begins with the narrator noting that his pedometersays he is 25. That narrator is given a drink by a scythe-carrying man who turns outto be his abandoned brother after the narrator leaves the title location. This authorof (+) The Other Side of the Hedge wrote another story whose action starts with ayoung boy walking down a blank alley with a "To Heaven" sign during a hazy sunrise. Despite forgetting his purse, that narrator is given a (*) ticket. The narrator is called "a truant, a guttersnipe, a liar" by his father when he tells of his voyage in a horse-drawn carriage. Mr. Bons falls to his death after withdrawing from Achilles, whom he had met while on a rainbow bridge. For ten points, name this British author of the short story The Celestial Omnibus.
Edward Morgan Forster
7

135829-)
In one work, this author implores "Ah braid no more that shining hair!" whileasking for sex. In another poem, he notes that he loved the addressee for twelvehours but now must be "sated with Varietie". This man, who penned an appeal toAmarantha and The (+) Scrutinie, wrote "I could not love thee Dear so much/ Lov'dI not Honour more" in apologizing to his lover for going to battle. The first three stanzas by one of his poems declare that "Gods that wanton in the Air", "Fishes that tipple in the Deep", and "Enlarg`ed Winds, that curl the Flood" all (*) "Know no such Liberty". This poet notes that "Minds innocent and quiet take/ that for an hermitage" after stating that "Stone walls do not a prison make". For ten points, name this Cavalier poet of To Lucasta, Going to the Wars and To Althea, From Prison.
Richard Lovelace
7

135837-)
This author pondered damnation in writing "Oh I shall soon despair. . . /Thatthou...wilt not choose me/And Satan hates me, yet is loth to lose me". In anotherpoem, this man challenged "Spit in my face you Jews, and pierce my side". Heasked "Teach me how to (+) repent, for that's as good" as a pardon in a work whichcommanded angels At the Round Earth's Imagined Corners, Blow. In another work, this poet pleaded "Divorce me, untie, or break that knot again" before concluding that the speaker "never shall be free/ Nor ever (*) chaste, except you ravish me". This author said that "though some have called thee/ Mighty and dreadful", the central figure is "slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men". For ten points, name this Metaphysical poet who included Batter My Heart, Three-Person'd God in his Holy Sonnets, along with Death, Be Not Proud.
John Donne
7

135841-)
The protagonist of this work confuses the words "lucker" and "lucre". Theprotagonist of this work prepares to give his mother one thousand pounds on each ofher next five birthdays, but she requests the entire sum up front to cover (+) debts.The protagonist hears his house whisper "There must be more money", and he is partners with the gardener (*) Bassett, the pair of which is later joined by Uncle Oscar. The protagonist's mother comes home after a party to find him in his room in the dark, to which he responds "It's Malabar!". For ten points, name this short story in which Paul dies of brain-fever after winning eighty thousand pounds betting on horse races that was written by D. H. Lawrence.
The Rocking Horse Winner
7

135845-)
One character in this novel has an annoying habit of ending words with "-am"instead of an "-ee" sound. Another character in this novel impersonates Mr. Beesleyof the Evening Post for a phone interview with a painter. The protagonist steals Mr.Barclay's taxi to take one love interest home, while another girlfriend had attemptedsuicide when dumped by (+) Catchpole. The protagonist has his paper on 15thcentury shipbuilding techniques stolen by a Professor Caton, and he tries to arrange for the three prettiest girls to take his special (*) lecture by giving Michie the slip. That adversary of Bertrand wins the affection of Christine after being fired for giving a drunken lecture on Merrie England. For ten points, name this novel about the junior faculty member Mr. Dixon written by Kingsley Amis.
Lucky Jim
7

135849-)
One character in this novel imagines herself representing Britain in the Olympicsin the event of nettle-cutting. That character in this novel based her story TwoFigures by a Fountain upon watching her sister diving to recover a piece of a broken(+) vase, and she had earlier been unable to perform her play The Trials of Arabella. In response to a vulgar letter to her sister, that character falsely accused its author of the (*) rape of Lola, resulting in his joining the British Army during World War II. That man, Robbie Turner, is eventually reunited with his love Cecilia in the new life written for them. For ten points, name this novel about Briony Tallis's quest for absolution written by Ian McEwan.
Atonement
7

135853-)
One character in this novel indicates another's demise by drawing a "G" in theair with her finger. The ship La Paloma catches fire shortly after it arrives from HongKong. In this novel, a character referred to as "the fat man" tells of a tribute paid bythe (+) Knights Hospitallers to Charles V. The protagonist is pursued by his partner'srecent widow, Iva, and is questioned by Lieutenant Dundy and Tom Polhaus. (*)Miles Archer and Floyd Thursby are shot after the protagonist is hired by a girl with pseudonym Wonderly named Brigid O'Shaughnessy. The protagonist is later commissioned by Joel Cairo to find the title object, which turns about to be a forgery from the Russian Kemidov. For ten points, name this novel in which Sam Spade investigates a bird statuette, written by Dashiell Hammett.
The Maltese Falcon
7

135860-)
This play ends with its matriarch declaring "No man at all can be living for ever,and we must be satisfied." A woman in this play infers the demise of her brother whenher mother returns carrying a piece of bread wrapped in cloth. Another characteridentifies a sock she had sewn by counting its stitches after a young (+) priest broughta bundle of clothes that she was to hide from her mother. The sisters Nora and Cathleen discuss how it would take seven days to get to (*) Donegal from their island of Inishmaan. Sheamus, Shawn, and Patch carry in a body covered by a bit of sail; that man, Bartley, had gone searching for his missing brother Michael when he was knocked into the ocean by the gray pony. For ten points, name this play about the many drowned sons of Maurya written by John Millington Synge.
Riders to the Sea
7

135866-)
One of these characters is only seen crying "piteously" at being unable to assista woman with an infant. Another of these characters finds two children hanging onhis feet he calls Ignorance and Want before departing. That character had appearedwearing an open green robe surrounded by food. A later one leads a visit to see (+)Joe and Mrs. Dilber dividing a plunder including bed curtains and exits by turning into a bedpost. Those characters were preceded by another who first appeared in a (*) door knocker, was recognized by his pigtail, and dragged chains. One of these characters visits Fezziwig's party while another is named Jacob Marley. For ten points, name this type of character, three of which visited Scrooge in Dickens's A Christmas Carol representing Christmases past, present, and future.
ghosts in A Christmas Carol                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 
7

135873-)
In this work, a cautionary tale is told of Jeanie, who "Fell sick and died/ in hergay prime." One character is incensed when, waiting by a brook, she cannot hear thecalls her sister can. Characters in this work are referred to by the names "cat-faced","rat-faced", "snail-paced", and "parrot-voiced". One character, having no (+) money,pays for her food and wine with a "golden curl" of her hair, while another has a penny returned to her after she is not allowed to take food home, the (*) merchants claiming "Half their dew would dry/ Half their flavour would pass by". This poem observes that "One may lead a horse to water,/ Twenty cannot make him drink." The title characters repeatedly tempt "Come buy our orchard fruits". For ten points, name this poem about Laura and Lizzie written by Christina Rossetti.
Goblin Market
7

135876-)
One character in this novel repeatedly refers to her husband as her "cara sposo";that character had recently moved from Maple Grove, the estate of her brother,Mr. Suckling. Another character in this novel burns a pencil and some court plasterleftover from a finger cut that she had kept in her (+) Most Precious Treasures box.The title character is surprised when she learns of a certain man's affections because he had requested a picture she drew of her best friend; that revelation took place in a (*) carriage home on Christmas Eve from the Weston's home. One lady is left without a dancing partner at a ball at the Crown Inn until Mr. Knightley steps in. A proposal from Mr. Martin is initially rejected and later accepted by Harriet Smith. For ten points, name this novel about Miss Woodhouse, the title matchmaker, by Jane Austen.
Emma
7

135886-)
The narrator of this work relays the message "He has gone South for theweek" to the red man at Marwar Junction, and works as a correspondent for theBackwoodsman. One character in this short story is executed by standing on arope bridge while it is cut down, and another man is recognized after surviving (+)crucifixion by his inch-thick unibrow. Two characters start a lodge of the Freemasons in the Temple of Imbra after gaining a following defending an outnumbered group of archers with their (*) Martini-Henry rifles. Despite the warnings of Billy Fish, one man insists on forcibly taking an Afghan bride, and he loses power when she responds by biting his nose. For ten points, name this short story in which Daniel Dravot and Peachey Carnehan decide to be rulers of Kafiristan written by Rudyard Kipling.
The Man Who Would Be King
7

135889-)
Two characters in this play laugh about crashing their tandem bicycle in Ardenneson the road to Sedan. One character relays a story about a tailor who takes threemonths to make a pair of pants. Another character in this play promises to giveanother the (+) combination to the cupboard in order to "finish him". This playopens with a man using a step ladder to look out two windows on opposite sides of the stage, and is later told to put his companion in the exact center of the room after (*) wheeling him "around the world". After demanding "Me pap!", one character is given a dog biscuit, and later dies inside a garbage can. In addition to Nagg and Nell, this play features a character who cannot stand and another who cannot sit. For ten points, name this play about Hamm and Clov written by Samuel Beckett.
Endgame (or Fin de Partie)
7

135890-)
This collection contains a poem promising its title recruit that "town and fieldwill mind you/ Till Ludlow tower is down" and another in which the speaker becomes"a soldier of the Queen" called The New Mistress. One poem states "Eyes the shadynight has shut/ Cannot see the (+) record cut". In another, the speaker confirms theadvice he had gotten not to give his heart away that he had been given a year before. The penultimate poem in this collection posits that (*) "malt does more than Milton can" and concludes with a story of Mithridates dying old spoken to a man who "eat[s his] victuals fast enough". For ten points, identify this collection containing To an Athlete Dying Young, When I Was One-and-Twenty, and Terence, This is Stupid Stuff written by A. E. Housman.
A Shropshire Lad
7

135892-)
In this play, the Bishop of Bromley writes in the newspaper calling Christians toassist with the H-bomb. The protagonist of this play calls his wife Lady Pusillanimous.The protagonist and his wife shared an apartment with (+) Hugh Tanner after theirwedding and play a game of bears and squirrels. That wife moves out with the help of her father, Colonel (*) Redfern, but returns after a miscarriage. In the meantime, her husband shacks up with actress Helena Charles. Alison burns her arm while ironing as her husband wrestles with the Welsh boarder Cliff. For ten points, name this modern realist play featuring the tirades of Jimmy Porter written by John Osborne.
Look Back in Anger
7

135898-)
One character in this novel is found in Ceylon only able to say "Credo in unumDeum omnipotentem" and "shuttle-cock". The title character tries to comfort a younggirl on a train in an episode known as the Kilsyte case. The wife of the narratorcommits suicide with (+) prussic acid from a vial she had told her husband was fullof heart medicine. The title character visits Luther's protest while staying with his wife at (*) Nauheim; he was there while letting his house at Branshaw Teleragh to recover his losses from Monte Carlo, including a costly affair with La Dolciquita. This novel opens "This is the saddest story I have ever heard" and ends with the title character's suicide when his mistress, Nancy Rufford, leaves for India. For ten points, name this novel about Edward Ashburnham written by Ford Madox Ford.
The Good Soldier: A Tale of Passion
7

135901-)
This work uses spilling betel juice on women in the market as an example ofunfriendliness. The driver of a rubbish van in this work abandoned his vehicle justbefore it was destroyed. The action begins when the narrator discovers a black mandead with his face in the mud and the skin stripped off of his back. A lost (+) mahoutis the only one capable of dealing with a particular case of must. A crowd of two thousand people follow the narrator along a road to a confrontation which is carried out so that he can "avoid looking like a (*) fool". That narrator had initially headed to the bazaar with his .44 Winchester to scare the title creature, but later borrowed a more powerful gun. For ten points, name this essay in which a Burmese police officer puts down a pachyderm, written by George Orwell.
Shooting an Elephant
7

135906-)
The narrator of this story sits in a back-drawing room, in which a priest hadrecently died, with his hands pressed together repeating "O love! O love!". Thatnarrator frequently lays on the floor of his front parlour to peek out the bottom of thewindow at his love interest. In this story, (+) Mrs. Mercer departs at eight o'clock onSaturday night, although it is still another hour before the narrator's uncle arrives. The main action of the story is set in place when the narrator is told of a retreat at his love interest's (*) convent. The narrator looks at jars at a porcelain stall, but the young lady running it is too busy flirting with two gentlemen, and so he does not actually buy a gift for Mangan's sister. For ten points, name this short story from James Joyce's Dubliners about a title bazaar.
Araby
7

136107-)
This essay compares the "effect of antiquity" in the Aeneid to that of its subject, and notes that much of the source material for both is lost. It proposes an unequal division of its subject that describes a "simple and static structure, solid and strong." This essay lengthily critiques assertions like: its subject has great form but worthless content, and: its subject is a "wild folk-tale," which were made by W.P. Ker and R.W. Chambers. This essay's author returned to the same subject in the study Finn and (*) Hengest. The opening of this essay claims that only historians or those who cannot recognize good poetryÂ—i.e. all previous writers on its subjectÂ—would view its subject purely as a historical document. This essay construes its subject not as an "epic" or a "lay," but as a tragic "historical poem about the pagan past." This is essay is often packaged with a translation by Seamus Heaney. For 10 points, name the most influential essay about Beowulf, which was written by J.R.R. Tolkien.
"Beowulf: The Monsters and the Critics"
9

136128-)
An essay about this play defends its title character's contradictions by saying that he "no more loses his identity of character in the fluctuations of fortune or the storm of passions than [he] in himself would have lost the identity of his person." That essay about this play ends by contrasting its title character with Richard III, claims that this play "moves upon the verge of an abyss," and was written by William Hazlitt. Another essay about this play includes a lengthy footnote attacking the use of the construction "sympathy for," and a digression using the example of painting in linear perspective to exhort the reader not to let understanding get in the way of comprehension. The title phenomenon of that essay about this play is compared to the sigh of a woman recovering from a faint, since both are (*) signals that bracket off unnatural occurrences. That essay about this play was influenced by the events that its author later described in "On Murder Considered as One of the Fine Arts." Thomas De Quincey wrote about "The Knocking at the Gate in"Â— for 10 pointsÂ—what Shakespeare tragedy in which three witches prophecy to a Scottish king?
The Tragedy of Macbeth
9

136174-)
This book cites the song "Ain't We Got Fun" as emblematic of the restlessness associated with the"soldier's attitude to life." This book reproduces passages from John Beevers' World Without Faith beforecriticizing them as examples of harmful "machine-worship." The second chapter of this book describesmembers of a certain profession as "caryatid[s] upon whose shoulders nearly everything that is not grimy issupported," before providing an account of watching groups of (*) "fillers" at work. This book opens bydescribing the living conditions of the Brooker family, and its highly personal second section was almostomitted by the publisher Victor Gollancz. That second section of this book offers reasons like excessive jargon,the "prevalence of cranks," and class prejudice as factors explaining why the working class hasn't adoptedsocialism. For 10 points, name this 1937 book exploring the conditions of northern England and featuring anoft-excerpted account of a trip into a coal mine, a work by George Orwell.
The Road to Wigan Pier 
9

136180-)
In Pale Fire, Charles Kinbote considers this novel to be a "monstrous extension" of Angus MacDiarmid's Striking and Picturesque Delineations. Marshall McLuhan structured his War and Peace in the Global Village around the "ten thunders" of this novel. The opening sentence of this novel references the phrase "commodius vicus" from Giambattista VICO'S The New Science, the structure of which heavily influenced this novel. Henry Morton Robinson and another thinker pointed out the similarities between this novel and The Skin of Our Teeth. Sections of this novel were published in the journal Transitions under the name (*) Work in Progress, and Joseph Campbell co-authored a "Skeleton Key" to this novel. This novel centers on "Howth Castle and Environs," "Here Comes Everybody," "Humphrey Chimpden Earwicker," and other names initialized "HCE." It ends with a sentence fragment that loops back around to its opening, "riverrun, past Eve and Adam's..." For 10 points, name this extremely demanding final novel by James Joyce.
Finnegans Wake 
9

136569-)
Martin Larson declared this poem's presentation of the central event as "vengeful Justice bore for our excess" to be proof that the poet had "no conception of original sin" and was "untouched by the Puritan philosophy during his youth".  John Shawcross interpreted as a sign of faith the chiasmus of two lines near the center of this poem asking "O more exceeding love or law more just?"  This poem asks the reader to "Burn in your sighs, and borrow / Seas wept from our deep sorrow" because a figure who entered the world "with all Heav'ns heraldryÂ…now bleeds to give us ease".  FTP, name this John Milton poem referring to "that great Cov'nant which we still transgress" performed on Jesus during the bris.
Upon the Circumcision
9

136573-)
In one work by this man, Darry Berrill swaps jobs with his wife and is joined in trashing the household by Barry Derrill, and in another, Jerry attempts to help his drunken coworker Sammy sign a postal order for the titular amount of money.  The prostitute Jannice dies making the sign of the cross and is pursued by The Dreamer in another of his works.  This author of the one-act plays The End of the Beginning and A Pound on Demand and the morality play Within the Gates wrote a play which ends with Cyril Poges climbing to the roof of his flooding house and another play in which Minnie Powell dies hiding bombs and Donal Davoren pretends to be the titular figure.  His other plays include one in which Teddy Foran is blinded and Barney is caught removing the dress of Jessie Taite, the one-time girlfriend of soccer star Harry Heegan and one in which Johnny is killed for informing on Robbie Tancred and Jack Boyle is abandoned by his wife.  FTP, name this playwright of Purple Dust, The Shadow of a Gunman, The Silver Tassie, and Juno and the Paycock.
Sean O'Casey
9

136591-)
This author wrote an extended essay in which she states that women must be lifted out of poverty in order to write good fiction. In a different novel by this author, a character commits suicide after being involuntarily admitted to a psychiatric institution; the title character hears of the suicide of that character,  (*) Septimus Smith, at a party she was hosting. In that work by this author, Richard is the "simple" husband of the title character, who is a London high society lady. This author's affair with Vita Sackville-West inspired one work by this author that is both a love letter and a satire; that w ork is  Orlando. For 10 points, name this author o  f  Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia  Woolf
3

136594-)
In one work by this author, one character suckers another character's grandfather into gambling away the little money he had. That character, Daniel Quilp, repossesses the title establishment. In another work by this author, one character takes the place of his doppelganger on the guillotine; that work begins with the line "It was the (*) best of times; it was the worst of times". In a different work by this author, Marley's Ghost warns that the Ghosts of Christmas Past, Present and Future will visit Ebenezer Scrooge. For 10 p oints, name this autho  r of  The Old Curiosity Shop,  A Tale of Two Cities and  A Christmas Carol.
Charles  Dickens
3

136598-)
This play derives its name from a mythological character who sculpted his idealization of Galatea. The Eynsford-Hills feature in this play, in which two linguists make a (*)  bet regarding whether the main character can learn to speak like a duchess. Professor Higgins therefore begins his endeavor to tutor that main character in proper speech, while Colonel Pickering agrees to pay Higgins's costs if he is successful. For 10 points, name this play in which Higgins successfully tutors cockney-speaking Eliza Doolittle, a play by George Bernard Shaw.
Pygmalion
3

136603-)
The narrator and "host" of this book, Harry Bailey, offers a free meal to the best storyteller among his group of travelers in the beginning of this work. One character in this book tells a story about "what women want most". It is generally accepted that the first two stories in this collection are told by the  (*) Knight and the Miller, but the order of the rest of the 22 stories in this collection is a point of scholarly debate. Loosely based on the Decameron by Boccaccio, for 10 points, name work in which the aforementioned pilgrims travel to the shrine of Thomas Becket in the title location, a work by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The  Canterbury Tales  
3

136606-)
One character in this book gave another character a note asking her to elope. The character that received that note instead married another man. A different character's father threatened to disown him after he chose to marry a poor girl; that character's name is (*)  George Osborne. Later in this book, William Dobbin courts Amelia Sedley, George's widow; however, Amelia refuses to marry him until she sees proof that George gave the aforementioned note to Becky Sharp. For 10 points, what "novel without a hero" was written by William Makepeace Thackeray?
Vanity Fair  
3

136609-)
In one work by this author, Michael Henchard and his antithesis, Donald Farfrae, successively hold the title position. In a different work by this author, Gabriel Oak falls in love with Bathsheba Everdene; that novel's title comes from a line in Thomas Gray's  Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard, in which Gray describes the titular group's (*)  "ignoble strife". In another work by this author, the title character murders her lover Alec; she is therefore not "A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented", not even if this author says so. For 10 points, name this author of  Far from the Madding Crowd, The Mayor of Casterbridge, and  Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
Thomas  Hardy 
3

136611-)
Although some believe that this novel may have been inspired by  We by Yevgany Zamyatin, the author of this novel claims he had never heard of that work before he wrote it. In this novel, people are in one of five castes from Alpha to Epsilon; additionally, they get high on (*)  soma. In this novel, the word "Ford" is used in place of the word "Lord" in many of the same contexts, which explains why the events of this book take place in the year 632 After Ford. For 10 points, name this novel in which John the Savage participates in an Indian religious ritual, a novel by Aldous Huxley.
Brave New World 
3

136615-)
In the penultimate stanza of this poem, the author claims that "blind eyes could blaze like meteors". An early line in this poem states that "old age should burn and rave of close of day", while a later line in this poem explains how "wise men at their end know dark is (*)  right". The author of this poem published it as part of the collection  In Country Sleep, and Other Poems. For 10 points, "Rage, rage against the dying of the light" is a refrain repeated four times in what nineteen-line villanelle written for the author's dying father, a work by Dylan Thomas?
Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night
3

136617-)
In one of this author's novels, Hurree Chunder Mookherjee is the superior of the title character. In one of this author's poems, this author eloquently describes the title Indian man variously as a "limpin lump o' brick dust", "Lazarushian-leather", and "a better man than I"; that poem is (*)  "Gunga Din". This author's most famous collection includes short stories like "Kaa's Hunting",and "Rikki-Tikki-Tavi", and features tiger Shere Khan, who hunts the main character. For 10 points, name this author, who wrote the novel  Kim and who wrote about the adventures of Mowgli in  The Jungle Book.
Joseph Rudyard  Kipling 
3

136620-)
In one work by this author, Paul Pennyfeather is expelled from Oxford when he runs across campus without pants on. Another work by this author is based on this author's experience with the Daily Mail and features protagonist William Boot. In another work by this author, Tony Last is held captive and forced to read the complete collection of novels by Charles Dickens in perpetuity.   In a more famous work by this author,  (*) Charles Ryder has an affair with Julia, who is the sister of Sebastian Flyte.   For 10 points, name this author of  Decline and Fall,  Scoop, A Handful of Dust, and  Brideshead Revisited.
Arthur Evelyn St. John  Waugh  
3

136625-)
One character in this story comments that "it's a nice thing, when a man can do nothing with his money but make a beast of himself" after mentioning to his daughter that he is getting remarried.  Another character complains that he cannot see after accusing his sister of intentionally cooking dinner slowly.  Another character visits a couple whose accents she imitates, the Rigleys, to discover that her husband was not at the pub Prince of Wales.  After her mother-in-law arrives and explains how parents must make allowances for flaws like alcoholism, they are informed by a worker that the protagonist's husband was smothered when he was trapped by a cave-in in the coal mines.  FTP, name this short story in which a worker carries in the body of Elizabeth Bates's husband and knocks a vase of the titular flowers from a table, a work of D. H. Lawrence.
Odour of Chrysanthemums
9

136629-)
Near the beginning of this work, the protagonist reads the story of a queen who prayed to Juno and had it revealed to her that her husband had drowned at sea in a great storm.  In addition to reading the story of Alcyone and Ceyx, the protagonist views a royal hunt led by Emperor Octavian and is led astray deep into the forest in pursuit of a young hound.  Another character in this work laments losing a game of chess to Fortune, which he explains more clearly with his cry "Now that I know my lady bright / Whom I have loved with all my might / Is far from me, and dead and gone".  That knight in black is met by the protagonist in a dream.  Written in memory of Blanche, the wife of John of Gaunt, FTP, name this long poem by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Book of the Duchess
9

136635-)
This author reflected on his diagnosis with a detached retina and unrequited love for the daughter of an insurance salesman in the chapter Love and the War of one work, and in another, Janet Finlayson screams that a plane crash in Lisbon was divine punishment against the families of the victims, who include the sister of Paul Waterford.  In addition to Sprightly Running and Young Shoulders, he wrote a novel in which the playing of trombone player Percy Brett inspires Jeremy, a piano player in a seedy club who deserted his father Alfred Coleman.  The protagonist's window-washing business ends with the arrest of his partner Ern Ollershaw and the protagonist falls in love with Veronica before becoming a joke writer in this author's novel about Charles Lumley.  FTP, name this author of Strike the Father Dead and Hurry on Down, a member of the Angry Young Men.
John Wain
9

136638-)
In one work by this author, a proposal from Walter Henderson causes Roger Hamley to be dumped by Cynthia Kirkpatrick, although he is then picked up by Molly Gibson, and in another, the title character contracts a fatal illness from Mr. Donne, who is actually the youth who took her to Wales as a girl, Bellingham.  In addition to Wives and Daughters and Ruth, this author wrote a novel in which Lady Glenmire is denounced for her engagement to a doctor by Mrs. Jamieson and also includes the characters Miss Matty Jenkyns and Mary Smith.  In another novel, Will's testimony concerning the murder of Henry Carson saves his cousin Jem Wilson, who is in love with the title character.  FTP, name this author of Cranford and Mary Barton.
Elizabeth Gaskell
9

136642-)
One poem by this man laments being turned into an ass by "The little boy" who "Turn'd Io to a cow, Narcissus to a flower" in order "to show his might and power", and the title character of another declares "This heat of hope, or cold of fear / My foolish heart could never bear".  In addition to The Metamorphosis and The Careless Lover, another poem by this man relates how "good old BenÂ…Bid them remember how he had purg'd the stage / Of errors, that had lasted many an age" at a meeting where "There was Lucan's translator too" and "Apollo himself was at it, they say".  Another poem concludes "This cannot take her / If of herself she will not love / Nothing can make her / The devil take her".  The author of A Session of the Poets, FTP, name this poet who wrote the plays Brennoralt, The Goblins, and Aglaura, which contains the song "Why so pale and wan, fond lover?", a noted Cavalier.
John Suckling
9

136649-)
The family of the protagonist of this work loses most of their money when the father invests his savings with a sea merchant whose ship is then wrecked.  One character in this work flirts with and judges a series of men by their wealth after her debutante ball, rejects the rector Mr. Hatfield, and eventually marries Thomas Ashby.  A visit from Uncle Robson prompts the protagonist to crush young birds with a stone in order to prevent them from having their legs and wings pulled off by the sadistic Tom.  After being fired from that job, the protagonist takes a new job where she meets her future husband, the curate Edward Weston.  FTP, name this novel whose title character works for the Murrays and Bloomfields as a governess, a work of Anne Bronte.
Agnes Grey
9

136654-)
One character in this play addresses the problem of stagnant water by recommending that the citizens drink wine because "water is quite unwholesome" and responds to complaints of bread made of chaff by stating "very good food too, I give it to my horses".  When it is suggested that one character in this play was tempted by a devil, that character responds "We are each our own devil, and we make this world our hell".  Another character in this work decides to leave a dagger and letter on the breast of a sleeping victim whom he refuses to kill despite the urgings of Moranzone.  After murdering her husband Simone, the protagonist frames her lover Guido Ferranti for the crime.  FTP, name this play in which the title character Beatrice dies poisoning herself, a work of Oscar Wilde.
The Duchess of Padua
9

136657-)
The protagonist of this work is irritated when his friend mentions his incomplete poem London Pleasures.  He also writes the poetry collection Mice and laments that he has never seen a single customer at McKechnie's bookshop take it out of its shelf.  After receiving a fifty dollar check from an American literary journal, the protagonist gives five pounds to his sister Julia, goes to a seedy hotel where he fails to have sex with two prostitutes, and ends up in jail.  Although he begins by declaring war on the "money god", the protagonist eventually accepts the encouragement of Philip Ravelston and marries his pregnant girlfriend Rosemary Waterlow.  FTP, name this novel following Gordon Comstock, a work of George Orwell.
Keep the Aspidistra Flying
9

136663-)
This work refers to one action that "would move tears and pity in the most savage and inhuman breast" and mentions a fifteen-year-old girl "who was crucified for an attempt to poison the emperor", and this work refers to Francois Rabelais as an "eminent French physician" before implying that sexual intercourse takes place most frequently around Lent.Â  The author mentions how "we differ even from Laplanders, and the inhabitants of Topinamboo" to attack his countrymen's lack of patriotism, and this work praises Protestants who leave the country rather than "pay tithes against their conscience to an idolatrous Episcopal curate".Â  "Admirable gloves for ladies, and summer-boots for fine gentlemen" are mentioned as one product of a plan which would create a "gain of eight shillings sterling per annum" for "constant breeders" and "bring great custom to taverns".Â  FTP, name this work stating that babies are "a most delicious, nourishing, and wholesome food", a satiric attack on the economic oppression of Ireland written by Jonathan Swift.
A Modest Proposal
9

136666-)
Near the beginning of this work, an old mastiff howls sixteen times in answer to the clock, and later, while sleeping, that mastiff makes an angry moan, surprising one character who has never heard the dog yell before.  After being given a cordial wine by a character whose mother made it from wild flowers, one character in this work exclaims "Off, woman, off! this hour is mine".  Earlier, that character collapses and is carried through a gate by another character.  A dream concerning a bright green snake coiled around a dove is related by Bracy, who wishes to wander the woods in search of evil before delivering a message to Lord Roland de Vaux of Tryermaine.  Near the end of this poem, the protagonist is reprimanded by Sir Leoline for demanding that he expel Lady Geraldine, who has put a curse on her in her sleep.  FTP, name this unfinished long poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
Christabel
9

136673-)
One of this author's works features the first appearance of Don Juan in English literature, and one reworking of a Shakespeare play by this author gives the title character two mistresses, Melissa and Evandra.  In addition to The Libertine and The History of Timon of Athens, the Man-Hater, the misanthropes Emilia and Stanford are confronted by the arrogant dramatist Sir Positive At-all in another of his plays.   Yet another play features the merchants Bisket and Fribble and sees Mrs. Woodly sleep with the rakes Rains and Bevil, who pursue the honorable girls Lucia and Carolina.  This author of The Sullen Lovers and Epsom-Wells was depicted as waging "immortal war with wit" and "mature in dullness from his tender years" in a poem by one of his contemporaries.  FTP, name this English playwright attacked by John Dryden in his poem Mac Flecknoe.
Thomas Shadwell
9

136680-)
One character in this work is employed by Mrs. Saddletree, whose son attempts to defend her when she is brought to trial, and another character is out for vengeance on the man who betrayed her daughter, Madge Wildfire.Â  The patronage of the Duke of Argyle allows one character to marry the minister Reuben Butler after she meets a man who instigates the hanging of a man who fires into the crowd at the execution of the smuggler Andrew Wilson, John Porteous.Â  That character eventually saves his lover, who was incarcerated for killing her child, though that child was actually given to an outlaw by Meg Murdockson.Â  In the end, Geordie Robertson is stabbed by his own son while searching for him in Scotland.Â  FTP, name this novel following Jeanie and Effie Deans, a work of Sir Walter Scott. 
The Heart of Midlothian
9

136681-)
The narrator of this poem recites the first two couplets of a song which he continuously makes puns on and begins "Flower o' the broom / Take away love, and our earth is a tomb!"  The narrator urges the listener to "not mistake an idle word / Spoke in a huff" after angrily shouting "Hang the fools!", and he concludes one section of this poem by stating "my lesson learned / The value and significance of flesh / I can't unlearn ten minutes afterward".  The narrator recalls how "They tried me with their books" when he first joined the Carmelites, and the criticism "Faces, arms, legs, and bodies like the true / As much as pea and pea! it's devil's game!" is used to reprimand him for a style which prompts the defacing of one of his paintings.  The narrator states "You need not clap your torches to my face" upon his apprehension by watchmen and tells them that he is "one, sir, who is lodging with a friendÂ…MasterÂ—aÂ…Cosimo of the Medici".  FTP, name this dramatic monologue contained in the collection Men and Women and delivered by the titular Renaissance painter, a work of Robert Browning.
Fra Lippo Lippi
9

136686-)
Images in this poem include "fire green as grass" and "The night above the dingle starry".  The narrator of this poem states that "the sabbath rang slowly / In the pebbles of the holy streams" after characterizing himself as "green and golden", "huntsman and herdsman", and "prince of the apple towns".  The narrator then remarks that "My wishes raced through the house high hay" and describes a place where "it was all / Shining, it was Adam and maiden", and this poem concludes "Time held me green and dying / Though I sang in my chains like the sea".  FTP, name this poem describing feeling "happy as the grass was green" during childhood by the title location, a work of Dylan Thomas.
Fern Hill
9

136693-)
One character in this work has a "single window" from which he can see "the downstream extremity of the Isle of Swans" after moving and experiencing a resurgence of his "old terror of night".  Another character in this work urges another to "stay where we were so long alone together, my shade will comfort you".  One character in this play relates the story of a messenger who "from time to time unheraldedÂ…would appear to read the sad tale through again and the long night away, then disappear without a word".  This play begins with that character declaring that "little is left to tell" and ends with that character declaring "nothing is left to tell".  One character knocks on a table in order to make another character repeat the previous line and knocks again to signal him to continue.  FTP, name this brief play featuring the Listener and the Reader written by Samuel Beckett.
Ohio Impromptu
9

136702-)
In this work, a portrait of one character's grandfather sighs and removes itself from its frame, and three drops of blood falling from the nose of a statue is taken as a sign that two characters should not marry.  A birthmark revealing one character to be the son of the priest is discovered shortly before an execution which is interrupted by the arrival of the Knight of the Gigantic Saber.  The grandson of Ricardo accidentally stabs his daughter Matilda in the chapel, and the action of this novel begins when Conrad is crushed by a giant helmet.  In the end, the giant Prince Alfonso reveals that Theodore is the true heir, allowing him to marry Isabella and forcing Manfred to abdicate.  FTP, name this Gothic novel by Horace Walpole.
The Castle of Otranto
9

136705-)
In one scene in this play, one character enters a room and immediately notes that someone has taken his specially made cheese roll, prompting another character to admit to it but refuse to apologize because he took it deliberately.  One character in this play offers another a glass of water with sexual implications, but then drinks it and claims she was just thirsty, and another character falls unconscious after relating how two passengers in his cab had sexual intercourse.  In this play, Joey is a boxer, Lenny is a pimp, and Max is a retired butcher and the family patriarch.  Multiple family members are affected by their desire for Teddy's wife Ruth, a former model.  FTP, name this play which features an unannounced arrival in the central household, a work of Harold Pinter.
The Homecoming
9

136708-)
One poem in this collection counts "lightfoot boys" and "rose-lipt girls" among the golden friends for whom the poet mourns, and another poem describes a flower which "has not long to stay / And dies on Easter day".  Another poem details the narrator's wish to enlist in the army after his lover tells him to "go where you are wanted, for you are not wanted here".  In addition to The Lent Lily and The New Mistress, this collection includes a poem which states "And while the sun and moon endure / Luck's a chance, but trouble's sure" and instructs its addressee to "Look into the pewter pot / To see the world as the world's not".  Another poem in this collection comments that "early though the laurel grows / It withers quicker than the rose" and begins "The time you won your town the race / We chaired you through the market-place".  FTP, name this poetry collection including Terence, This is Stupid Stuff and To an Athlete Dying Young, a work of A. E. Housman.
A Shropshire Lad
9

136713-)
In one scene in this play, the invocation of the queen's name causes all of the characters onstage to drop their swords, and in another scene, one character comes on stage, sits down, shakes his head, gets up, and goes off stage.  Early on, a French musician and Italian musician have a conversation with one of the central characters in which no one understands each other, and a later scene sees Beefeater kill Whiskerandos in a duel.  In the first act, one character identifies himself as a "practitioner in panegyric" and the central household receives a visit from Sir Fretful Plagiary.  FTP, name this play in which Mr. Sneer and Mr. Dangle view a rehearsal of a tragedy by Mr. Puff, a work of Richard Sheridan.
The Critic
9

136724-)
When one character in this work states that he does not recognize another character's name, that character replies that he is well known in Ennis.  One character in this work sings the song Johnny Hart, and that character is corrected on the line "Her gown she wore was stained with gore" when he sings Granuaile, after which he discovers that the character who corrected him also knows Shan Bhean Bhocht and Green on the Cape.  After reflecting on how easily he could have had another character's place if he had not married and sworn to protect English law, one character willingly hides another's hat and wig.  FTP, name this play in which the Sergeant allows an escaped convict to go free despite a hundred-pound reward, a work of Lady Gregory named for an Irish ballad sung as a signal of rebellion.
The Rising of the Moon
9

136727-)
Characters in this work include the corrupt Friar Flatterer and Hawkin the Active Man, and one scene in this work sees a group of mice plot to string a bell around the neck of a tormenting cat.  One character in this work is married to Dame-Work-While-I-Am-Able and has a daughter named Do-This-Or-Thy-Dame-Shall-Beat-Thee.  In one section, the Seven Deadly Sins consider repenting after hearing a powerful sermon delivered by Conscience.  Do-well, Do-bet, and Do-best are among the figures sought by Will, who also witnesses another character tear up a divine pardon from Truth and offer to guide pilgrims in exchange for their cultivating a half-acre of land.  FTP, name this allegorical poem by William Langland.
William's Vision of Piers Plowman or logical equivalents containing "Piers" and "Plowman"
9

136732-)
This poem which mentions "the rainbow of the salt sand-wave" and "the wealth of globed peonies" advises that "if thy mistress some rich anger shows / Emprison her soft hand, and let her rave / And feed deep, deep upon her peerless eyes".  This poem which concludes "His soul shall taste the sadness of her might / And be among her cloudy trophies hung" describes a figure which "hides the green hill in an April shroud" and "has her sovran shrine" in "the very temple of Delight".  Beginning "No, no! go not to Lethe, neither twist / Wolf's-bane, tight-rooted, for its poisonous wine", FTP, name this poem which instructs the reader to "glut thy sorrow on a morning rose", a work of John Keats.
Ode on Melancholy
9

136733-)
This character is first introduced at his grandfather's funeral, whose death prompts his family to sell their estate.  In one work, this character falls in love with the prostitute who is eventually found dead with a slit throat, Magdalena, and dies in a violent fight with her pimp Eduardo.  In addition to that work in which he befriends Billy Parham, this character falls in love with the daughter of Don Hector, Alejandra, kills an assassin sent for him by Perez while incarcerated, and loses Jimmy Blevins in a lightning storm.  In that novel, this character travels to Mexico along with Lacey Rawlins.  FTP, name this cowboy who appears in Cities of the Plain, the protagonist of Cormac McCarthy's All the Pretty Horses.
John Grady Cole
9

136737-)
This author wrote a hilarious number of nonfiction books about alcohol, including On Drink, How's Your Glass?: A Quizzical Look at Drinks and Drinking, and Everyday Drinking: The DistilledÂ… "this man".  In one novel by this author, the ghost of Dr. Underhill haunts the inn owned by Maurice Allington, and in another, Charlie Norris is forced to walk down a dark road at night by Alun Weaver.  The protagonist tries to abandon Margaret Peel and attacks Professor Welch in a public lecture in his novel about James Dixon.  FTP, name this British author of The Green Man, The Old Devils, and Lucky Jim, a relative of the author of Money, his son Martin.
Kingsley Amis
9

136742-)
One stanza of this poem claims that "Philomel becometh dumb" and "The rest complains of cares to come" after stating that "Time drives the flocks from field to fold / When rivers rage and rocks grow cold".  Another stanza warns that "A honey tongue, a heart of gall / Is fancy's spring, but sorrow's fall".  The phrase "In folly ripe, in reason rotten" is used to describe "thy beds of roses", "thy posies", and an assortment of things which "Soon break, soon wither" and are "soon forgotten".  The penultimate stanza declares "Thy belt of straw and ivy buds / Thy coral clasps and amber studs / All these in me no means can move / To come to thee and be thy love".  FTP, name this poem by Sir Walter Raleigh, a response to Christopher Marlowe's poem The Passionate Shepherd to His Love.
The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd
9

136746-)
At the beginning of this play, the chorus is waiting and states that the protagonist has been gone for seven years.  In one monologue, the protagonist explains the gift of peace "not as the world gives" and emphasizes how St. Stephen's Day is celebrated immediately after Christmas.  After relating how he was saved at Sandwich by the Dean of Salisbury, the protagonist meets four tempters, one of whom tells him to become chancellor again and the last of whom tells him to become a martyr.  The central event occurs after the arrival of four knights sent by Henry II.  FTP, name this play depicting the death of Thomas Becket, a work of T. S. Eliot.
Murder in the Cathedral
9

136752-)
In one poem, this author wrote that "Once, as child, out in a field of sheep / Thomas Hardy pretended to be dead" and another describes an alcoholic who is shot dead while out on a curfew.  Another poem by this author describes a figure with a "pointed skin cap", "mild pods ofÂ…eye-lids", and a "peat-brown head".  In addition to From Lightenings, Casualty, and The Tollund Man.  The narrator brings another man "milk in a bottle / Corked sloppily with paper" in a poem which begins "Between my finger and my thumb / The squat pen rests as snug as a gun".  Writing about the wonders of planting potatoes in that poem, FTP, name this poet of The Haw Lantern and Station Island who including his poem Digging in the volume Death of a Naturalist.
Seamus Heaney
9

136761-)
One character in this work orders another to cut down the Great Tree of the family estate which will pass to her son, Groby.  The protagonist of this work refuses leave to a Canadian soldier who he knows will be killed by his wife's lover if he returns and is reprimanded for getting his uniform dirty after digging himself and another man out after being covered in dirt by an explosion.  Edith Ethel Duchemin marries the protagonist's money-borrowing friend Macmaster, and after the protagonist returns from war, he finds his brother Mark paralyzed by a stroke.  In the end, the protagonist unites with Valentine Wannop as his wife Sylvia leaves him for General Campion.  Following Christopher Tietjens and including the novels Some Do NotÂ…, A Man Could Stand Up, and The Last Post, FTP, name this tetralogy by Ford Madox Ford.
Parade's End
9

136770-)
In this work, one group of characters is alarmed to find a log used to cross a river is missing as they travel from their winter home to their summer home.  One character in this work cannot explain to the others the smell of smoke coming from a nearby island, and that character utilizes his strong sense of smell again in detecting the poison on barbed arrows.  After feeding fungus to Tanakil, Liku is sacrificed to promote a good hunt, and Vivani takes the New One as her own child, causing her to be distrusted by Tuami.  After Fa disappears, Lok curls up on Mal's grave to die alone.  FTP, name this novel depicting the destruction of a tribe of Neanderthals by homo sapiens written by William Golding.
The Inheritors
9

136773-)
One poem titled after this subject asks its addressee if it can "hear the bleak winds loudly blow / Or the hoarse death-boding owl / Or village mastiff's wakeful howl" and begins "Thou, that at deep dead of night / Walk'st forth beneath the pale moon's light".  In addition to that poem by Joseph Warton, another poem titled after this subject describes a man "Whose trees in summer yield him shade / In winter fire" and "Whose flocks supply him with attire".  That poem begins "Happy the man, whose wish and care / A few paternal acres bound" and states "Thus let me live, unseen, unknown / Thus unlamented let me die".  FTP, name this subject of an ode by Alexander Pope.
Solitude [If someone gives Ode on Solitude or Ode to Solitude, just accept it]
9

136777-)
One character in this play claims that he would sooner lose his right hand than dismiss another character from his service unless that character petitioned him to do so.  The first argument in this play occurs between Alcander and Pisaro, representative friends of the two male leads who later engage in a sword fight when one of them pretends to leave town and discovers the other with his bride.  In the first scene, one character is promoted to replace Orgilius, the father of his betrothed.  After declaring that she will not share her husband's bed, Erminia is permitted to marry Prince Philander and Princess Galatea reveals her secret love for General Alcippus.  FTP, name this play by Aphra Behn.
The Forced Marriage: Or, The Jealous Bridegroom
9

136786-)
In one work by this author, the protagonist discovers that she is the daughter of the maid Sarah Leeson after inheriting the fortune of Captain Treverton.  In addition to that novel about Rosamond Frankland, this author wrote a novel in which Magdalen and Nora are revealed to be illegitimate children after the murder of their father Andrew Vanstone.  His other novels include one in which Percival dies in a fire while burning church records proving his illegitimacy and Laura Fairlie is married by Walter Hartright and one in which John Herncastle steals the titular Hindu diamond.  FTP, name this English novelist of The Dead Secret, No Name, The Woman in White, and The Moonstone.
Wilkie Collins
9

136791-)
One poem concerning one of these states "I gave a fervent welcome to the sight" and describes how the narrator chose "to bear it with me through the night" because his love had never seen one and concludes with the line "Oh! Joy it was for her, and joy for me".  This subject of Among All the Lovely Things My Love Had Been states that "Yet thus upbraided, I may show / What favours do attend me here / Till, like thyself, I disappear" in another poem in which it instructs its antagonist to "Abate this unbecoming pride / or with a less uneasy luster shine".  Yet another poem states that these "portend / No War, nor Princes funeral", but they cannot help the narrator "Since Juliana here is come / For she my mind hath so displac'd / That I shall never find my home".  FTP, name these creatures, one of which reprimands a star in Wordsworth's poem The Pilgrim's Dream, which are also addressed as "Ye living lamps, by whose dear light / The Nightingale does sit so late" by the Mower in a poem by Andrew Marvell.
Glow-Worms
9

136794-)
One character in this work is introduced when he rescues the protagonist's daughter after she is thrown from her horse into a stream.  After Ephraim Jenkinson cheats the protagonist out of a horse and the protagonist's son Moses of his money, he meets the protagonist in jail along with the protagonist's other son, who is jailed for attacking another character who demands rent payments from his father after his house burns down, sending him to debtors' prison.  In the end, the protagonist's son George marries Arabella Wilmot, and Mr. Burchell marries the protagonist's daughter Sophia after he is revealed to be the uncle of Squire Thornhill.  FTP, name this novel following the title character Dr. Primrose, a work of Oliver Goldsmith.
The Vicar of Wakefield
9

136805-)
The protagonist of this work is described as sometimes speaking through her long nose such soothing phrases as "Yes, my dear" and "No, my dear".  One character in this work uses a mug of tea to toast the protagonist's health and regrets that she has no porter.  The protagonist blushes when she is asked if she has come to buy wedding-cake while purchasing a slice of plumcake which she later forgets because she is distracted by a red-faced gentleman on the tram.  No one points out the mistake the protagonist makes when she sings the first verse twice of the aria I Dreamt that I Dwelt, the performance of which brings Joe to tears.  FTP, name this short story in which Maria plays a game in which she wears a blindfold and touches the titular substance in a saucer, a work of James Joyce.
Clay
9

136806-)
In this play, one character answers another's question "Can you make no use of your discontent?" with the reply "I make all use of it, for I use it only".  That character asks "What is he for a fool that betroths himself to unquietness?" upon learning of the engagement of two characters.  Another character in this play demands that the audience "remember that I am an ass" and tells another "thou villain, thou art full of piety".  Marriage is scoffed at by another character who declares "he that is more than a youth is not for me, and he that is less than a man, I am not for him".  "Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more, men were deceivers ever" is sung by Balthasar, a musician of the household of Leonato.  At the bidding of the villainous Don John, Borachio has sex with Margaret by a window where they are witnessed by Don Pedro and Claudio, causing the latter to accuse Hero of unfaithfulness on their wedding day.  FTP, name this Shakespearean comedy featuring Beatrice and Benedick.
Much Ado about Nothing
9

136810-)
The address in the third stanza of this poem alludes to the song to Sabrina from Milton 's Comus, as it directly quotes the term "glassy wave" and echoes it in its description of a figure "disporting on thy margent green".Â  The third and fourth stanzas of this poem makes allusions to the poet's translation of a passage of the Thebaid dealing with the hero Crenaeus, who "scorns the power of fate" in the same way that this poem's "bold adventurers disdain / The limits of their little reign" and whose protection by Ismenis is futile as the protection of this poem's "sprightly race" by "Father Thames".Â  The last stanza of this poem claims that "sorrow never comes too late" and asserts that "where ignorance is bliss / 'Tis folly to by wise".Â  FTP, name this poem which laments the fate of innocent schoolboys, a work of Thomas Gray. 
Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College
9

136818-)
One work in this series was based on its author's play The Noble Jilt, and another work in this series, the American Isabel Boncassen is pursued by Silverbridge after he and the poor Frank Tregear are rejected by Mabel Grex.  In another work in this series, the protagonist marries Mr. Emilius after the maid Patience Crabstick conspires to steal the titular items.  In addition to that novel about Lizzie Greystock, another novel in this series sees the title character marry Mary Flood Jones and lose his job in parliament when the Irish Reform Bill abolishes his burrough.  Linked together by Lady Glencora and Plantagenet, FTP, name this series of novels including Can You Forgive Her?, The Duke's Children, The Eustace Diamonds, and Phineas Finn, written by Anthony Trollope.
The Palliser Novels
9

136823-)
23. One character in this play delivers a soliloquy in which he states that "banquets, ease, and laughter can make great men, as greatness goes by clay" and "age, as in gold, in lust is covetous", and another character in this play accuses a "blazing star" of committing treason.  One character in this play is outraged when his mother Gratiana encourages his sister Castiza to give in to another's wooing, and that character spends most of the play disguised as the pander Piato.  Ambitioso, Supervacuo, and Spurio kill each other after discovering the already slain Lussurioso, and the Duke is poisoned when he kisses the skull of Gloriana, the murdered lover of Vindici.  FTP, name this play written by either Thomas Middleton or Cyril Tourneur.
The Revenger's Tragedy
9

136832-)
In Portnoy's Complaint, Alex recites this poem to The Monkey as they sit in his car, and she responds by having him feel the moist spot on her pants resulting from it.  This poem mentions "The broken wall, the burning roof and tower / And Agamemnon dead" before asking if "she put on his knowledge with his power".  This poem references a "strange heart beating where it lies" and "terrified vague fingers" of a figure who is "mastered by the brute blood" and held "helpless breast uponÂ…breast".  FTP, name this poem about a girl whose thighs are "caressed / By the dark webs" and has sex with a "feathered glory", a work of William Butler Yeats.
Leda and the Swan
9

136834-)
One character in this novel writes a work in which the protagonists discover their author's grave while crossing the Mojave Desert.  This work begins with screenwriter Bob Briggs describing his financial troubles, and one group of characters in this work wear patches on their genitals bearing the word "NO".  Early in this work, the narrator watches a truck loaded with unwanted scripts carry them off to the incinerator, and he retrieves one script falls from the truck which was written by William Tallis.  When New Zealand sends a group of scientists to rediscover America, a society is uncovered where Hots are the only class of society permitted to have sexual intercourse year round, and deformed babies are sacrificed by the dominant castrated priests on Belial Eve, where the gravedigger Loola attracts the botanist Alfred Poole.  FTP, name this novel by Aldous Huxley.
Ape and Essence
9

136838-)
One character in this play relates how another character was angered by someone whistling the opening of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony in six/eight time, and another character points out that his special marmalade is being stolen when another accuses him of acting like a man stranded on an island refusing to admit he ate the last coconut.  One character in this play carves a sugar sculpture of a blind girl the central characters knew in Paris and who killed herself by jumping out of a window, Sophie.  The repeated phrase "Ah, there you are" is played repeatedly on a tape recorder as the two central characters accuse each other of murder.  In the end, it is revealed that the title character died while attempting to swat a fly, and neither Beauchamp nor Martello is responsible for killing Donner.  FTP, name this radio play by Tom Stoppard named for a work of Marcel Duchamp.
Artist Descending a Staircase
9

136843-)
This case caused one of its namesakes so much despair that he "blew his brains out at a coffee house." Just when this case was about to conclude, it was discovered that the underlying estate was absorbed in the costs of litigating it, causing much mirth for Mr. Kenge and Mr. Vholes. The travails of this case caused Miss Flite's insanity and Richard Carstone's death. For 10 points, name this interminable suit in chancery that underlies the plot of Bleak House.
Jarndyce and [or v.] Jarndyce
9

137326-)
The first section of a novel in this genre describes its narrator playing games with his cousin Fred in which they would reread their favorite Biblical passages. The protagonist of a novel in this genre falls in love with a man who is banished to the South Seas by his father, but she later serendipitously runs into him at an inn. An eleven-volume, over one million word book in this genre was (*) probably written by Henry Spencer Ashbee and is narrated by a man named Walter. The protagonist of a novel in this genre works for Mrs. Cole, in which respect she takes on Mr. H as a client until she catches him having an affair with his maid. It is the genre of My Secret Life and of John Cleland's novel Fanny Hill. For 10 points, name this genre of literature that is often the target of obscenity trials over its pornographic nature.
erotic fiction [or erotica; accept any reasonable equivalents; or pornographfic literature before read; prompt on "memoir"]
8

137331-)
The speaker of a poem by this author states "the insidious master of song / Betrays me back" until his heart weeps to belong in his childish days, concluding that his "manhood is cast / Down in the flood of remembrance." The title objects of a poem by this author possess "the smoking blueness of Pluto's gloom," and that poem describes using a flower as a torch to journey to the underworld. This author of "Piano" claimed that "I have something to (*) expiate: / A pettiness" at the end of a poem whose speaker tells himself that, were he not afraid, he would kill an animal that came to take a drink from a water trough. For 10 points, name this author of "Bavarian Gentians" and "Snake," who actually preferred the title Quetzalcoatl for his novel The Plumed Serpent.
D.H. Lawrence
8

137344-)
In a play by this author, a man steals a gold cigarette case and callously returns its owner a pawn shop ticket. That play by this writer ends with a woman organizing an exhibit of her late husband's art, where she rejects a much older man because she has already remarried. A character created by this author quits her job by removing a silver brooch shaped like the letter "S." He wrote a play in which Mrs. (*) Dubedat is unsuccessful in convincing Sir Colenso Ridgeon to give her husband a radical tuberculosis cure. A play by this author includes an industrialist who insists that his successor be a foundling and a woman who is so shocked by a five-thousand pound donation from an arms maker that she leaves the Salvation Army. For 10 points, name this dramatist who wrote The Doctor's Dilemma and Major Barbara.
George Bernard Shaw
8

137352-)
12. In a poem about this war, the speaker is exhorted to become one with his weapon by twice hearing the commands "Marry it" and "Coax it." A poem about this war includes a lengthy boast detailing the military accomplishments of the ancestors of Dai Greatheart. A poem about it describes a line of people who are smiling as if it's "An August Bank Holiday" and ends with the line (*) "Never such innocence again." The sound of larks is drowned out by the guns of this war in one poem, and it is the subject of David Jones's lengthy masterpiece "In Parenthesis." A Philip Larkin poem is titled for the Roman numeral year in which it started. For 10 points, name this war, the subject of a John McCrae poem in which the poppies blow "In Flanders Fields."
World War One
8

137362-)
The narrator of a story by this writer imagines a conversation between a very young envelope and a very old envelope. This author created a character who foresees his own injury and the deaths of his friends using palmistry, but refuses to take action to prevent an impending train accident. He wrote about a poet who is advised against publishing a book with no title in a conversation with Rothenstein in the domino-room. This author of (*) "A.V. Laider" wrote a story in which a playwright spends years crafting a drama fantasizing the life of Savonarola. He included a story about a writer who makes an infernal pact to find out if he is famous in the future just to discover that he is only known for being a fictional character in his collection Seven Men. For 10 points, name this author of "Enoch Soames."
Max Beerbohm
8

137367-)
While discussing this event, a woman relates a boring story about how she caught a boy named Dick Jackson stealing two pieces of wood. A central character participates in this event only because he finds it the lesser evil than involving his neighbor, Charles Maddox. It necessitates ordering a large roll of green fabric and hiring a carpenter and a painter to make changes to the billiard room. Plans for this event are (*) interrupted by the return of the family patriarch from Antigua, after which Mr. Yates is forced to leave the premises. The present-day fame of Elizabeth Inchbald rests on it. Julia is slighted when her engaged sister Maria is chosen for the role of Agatha in this event by Henry Crawford. For 10 points, name this planned theatrical event, a major plot point in Jane Austen's Mansfield Park.
the performance of Lover's Vows [accept equivalents; accept "rehearsal" or "staging" in place of "performance"; prompt if the name of the play is not given]
8

137387-)
While discussing this event, a woman relates a boring story about how she caught a boy named Dick Jackson stealing two pieces of wood. A central character participates in this event only because he finds it the lesser evil than involving his neighbor, Charles Maddox. It necessitates ordering a large roll of green fabric and hiring a carpenter and a painter to make changes to the billiard room. Plans for this event are (*) interrupted by the return of the family patriarch from Antigua, after which Mr. Yates is forced to leave the premises. The present-day fame of Elizabeth Inchbald rests on it. Julia is slighted when her engaged sister Maria is chosen for the role of Agatha in this event by Henry Crawford. For 10 points, name this planned theatrical event, a major plot point in Jane Austen's Mansfield Park.
the performance of Lover's Vows [accept equivalents; accept "rehearsal" or "staging" in place of "performance"; prompt if the name of the play is not given]
8

137401-)
A character in this series falls in love with the wife of an insane man because of their mutual interest in the Pre-Raphaelite Brotherhood. In this series, two characters play a game wherein one of them composes a sonnet and then the other one translates it into Latin. Its protagonist is angered by the cutting down of his ancestral symbol, the Great Tree of Groby, and witnesses the gruesome death of (*) O-9 Morgan to a mortar shell. In this series, two suffragettes harass a minister on a golf course, leading to the protagonist bonding with Valentine Wannop. Tom Stoppard wrote the screenplay for a 2012 television adaptation of this series, whose final book is Last Post. In it, Sylvia torments her dutifully rational husband, Christopher Tietjens. For 10 points, name this tetralogy by Ford Madox Ford.
Parade's End
8

137402-)
A novel by this author opens and ends with funerals in which the song "Umbrella" is played. In that book, a woman who is raped by her drug dealer purposefully overdoses after her young brother drowns, and she lives in an area called "The Fields." A character created by this author discovers that Lula Landry's death was not suicide. Her first novel about the detective (*) Cormoran Strike was titled The Cuckoo's Calling. Noma Dumezweni was controversially selected to portray a character created by this writer in a play that debuted in London in the summer of 2016. This author of The Casual Vacancy wrote about a group of children who try to discover information about Nicholas Flamel, leading them to a riddle involving seven potions. For 10 points, name this author of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone.
J.K. Rowling
8

137412-)
A poem in this collection marvels at being able to win his lover only after giving up "Like as a huntsman after a weary chase." This collection is sometimes published along with a poem which ends each stanza with a reference to "woods" that "answer" and "echoes" that "ring." It contains a poem whose speaker observes "whenas death shall all the world subdue, / Our love shall live, and later life renew." "The (*) tide" makes the speaker's "pains his prey" a second time in its 75th poem, which recounts, "One day I wrote her name upon the strand." Many of its middle poems correspond to the days between Ash Wednesday and Easter. This collection was published alongside a wedding day poem titled "Epithalamion," also about its author's marriage to Elizabeth Boyle. For 10 points, name this sonnet cycle by Edmund Spenser.
Amoretti [prompt on "Epithalamion" before mentioned]
8

137427-)
In order to perpetrate this type of crime, a man who had part of his ear bitten off kidnaps an elderly woman and plans to bury her alive in an oversized coffin. While investigating this type of crime, Sherlock Holmes makes a series of deductions about the owner of a hat whom he has never met before. Because he had previously committed this crime, Beppo smashes five (*) busts of a French leader in the story "The Adventure of the Six Napoleons," and it is why Lady Frances Carfax is abducted. James Ryder confesses to this crime in a story where Holmes tracks down the origin of a Christmas goose sold at the Alpha Inn. This crime is central to the plot of "The Adventure of the Blue Carbuncle." For 10 points, name this crime, an example of which was the taking of the black pearl of the Borgias.
jewel robbery [prompt on partial answer; accept theft or stealing in place of "robbery;" accept the theft of the Blue Carbuncle or the theft of the black pearl of the Borgias before mentioned; prompt on "kidnapping" on the first line before read]
8

137441-)
In a novel in this genre, the main character tries to use a myrtle bough to rape a woman, but he is interrupted by her mother. That book in this genre includes a scene where a man is bitten by a serpent while picking a rose for his beloved, who later sucks the snake venom from his wound. A character from a novel in this genre recognizes his son by an arrow-shaped birthmark. This is the genre of a novel that opens with (*) Conrad being crushed to death by a massive helmet on his wedding day, leading his father Manfred to pursue the widowed bride, Isabella. Novels in it include a book in which Father Ambrosio signs a contract with Lucifer, Matthew Lewis's The Monk, as well as Horace Walpole's The Castle of Otranto. For 10 points, name this genre of romance and horror that shares its name with a style of architecture.
Gothic fiction [or Gothic novels, Gothic literature, etc.]
8

137444-)
A character in this story once wrote a letter in which he wonders whether words are dull and cold because there is no word tender enough to be his lover's name. A different character in this story repeatedly refuses to understand why Trappist monks sleep in coffins. The protagonist of this story relates the story of his grandfather's horse, which was so used to working in a (*) mill that it walks in circles when tied to a carriage. Near its beginning, the main character insults a servant by asking about her love life, giving that woman, Lily, a coin in recompense. In this story, an opera singer performs a song that reminds Gretta of the love of her youth, Michael Furey, the account of which infuriates Gretta's husband, Gabriel Conroy. For 10 points, name this final story of James Joyce's collection Dubliners.
"The Dead"
8

137466-)
This author was described "at the head of his storm-troopers!" in a stanza which suggests that this author would have supported Oswald Mosley. A lengthy poem addressed to this person recounts a journey on the ship Dettifoss while travelling in Iceland. A character originally created by this author is spotted "at Croydon Aerodrome" and with the Aga Khan in a "Letter to" (*) this man written in the rhyme royal. W. H. Auden imagined fans of this poet writing so profusely that this poet is "peppered / Like Gary Cooper, Coughlin, or Dick Sheppard," while less approving persons note that "I liked your lyrics," but his poem about a nobleman who travels across Europe during the end of the Napoleonic Wars is trash. For 10 points, name this British poet who wrote Childe Harold's Pilgrimage.
Lord Byron [George Gordon Byron]
8

137477-)
A poet with this surname asked "will his faith / Survive the terrors of to-morrow's death" in "Pilate's Wife's Dream." That author with this surname wrote a poem in which a dying woman cares not for her last rites, thinking only about her imprisoned lover Walter. This is the last name of the writer who imagined "fifteen wild Decembers" that "From those brown hills, have melted into spring" in a poem that states "All my life's bliss is in the grave with thee." Two authors with this last name collaborated to create the (*) Glasstown Confederacy and on several stories about a Pacific island kingdom called Gondal. The authors of "Apostasy" and "Remembrance" had this surname and collaborated with their sibling on Poems by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell. For 10 points, name this literary family whose members included Anne, Charlotte, and Emily.
Bronte [or Charlotte Bronte; or Emily Bronte; or Anne Bronte]
8

137491-)
Silent motion in this poem is described as "Noiseless as fear in a wide wilderness." The main character of this poem journeys to "Love's fev'rous citadel," which he claims is occupied by "barbarian hordes, / Hyena foemen, and hot-blooded lords." It describes a meal consisting of "candied apple, quince, and plum, and gourd; / With jellies soother than the creamy curd." This poem opens with the image of a (*) Beadsman saying the Rosary. Its main character is able to sneak past "dwarfish Hildebrand" and other revelers with the help of the old maid Angela, after which he hides in the closet of his lover. Set on a cold wintry night, this poem ends with the elopement of Porphyro and Madeline. For 10 points, name this John Keats poem set on a holiday dedicated to a virgin saint.
"The Eve of St. Agnes"
8

137501-)
This character recalls the time she spent with her lover by saying that "Eternity was in our lips and eyes, / Bliss in our brows' bent." Upon being accused of being unfeeling, this character engenders heaven to bring hail to poison her cold heart. This woman claims that she will catch twenty fish just as she caught her lover, from whom she receives the gift of a pearl that he kissed. She refers to her youth, when she was (*) "green in judgment: cold in blood" as her "Salad Days." A speech about this character states that "she makes hungry / Where most she satisfies" and claims that "Age cannot wither her, nor custom stale / Her infinite variety." Along with her servants Iras and Charmian, she commits suicide using an asp. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean queen of Egypt, the lover of Mark Antony.
Cleopatra
8

137503-)
A woman with this surname mailed a letter containing some of her pubic hair to her lover addressed "From Your Antelope." An author with this surname described his failed seven-year courtship of Alice in his essay "Dream-Children; A Revery." This was the last name of the author who inspired John Polidori's character of Lord Ruthven with her novel Glenarvon, and was referred to as (*) "Caro" by her lover, Lord Byron. This is the subject of a poem that notes "He is called by thy name" and asks "Dost thou know who made thee." It is the surname of Charles, who used Cousin Bridget as a standin for his sister Mary in his book Essays of Elia. For 10 points, give this word that names the companion poem to William Blake's "The Tyger," an animal with "Softest clothing woolly bright."
Lamb [or Caroline Lamb; or Charles Lamb; or "The Lamb"]
8

137505-)
A text of this type carved on a tree at Kegon Falls reads, "For all the truth, / all creation, / all secrets of yore / can be told in an instant, / by then they're no more." A text of this type describes the world as "lucid as ice" and recalls reading "Empedocles on Etna" under some linden trees twenty years ago; that text of this type claims that its author purposefully left out the theme of feudalism from his story (*) "A Fool's Life." A text of this type states "You see I can't even write this" and repeatedly extols the goodness of its writer's husband, Leonard. That text of this type ends by saying "I don't think two people could have been happier than we have been." For 10 points, name these texts, one of which contains the last words of Virginia Woolf before she walked into the River Ouse.
suicide notes [accept anything clearly indicating a note or a letter explaining why its author committed suicide; accept death poems before "lucid as ice," and prompt afterwards]
8

137509-)
The protagonist of this novel claims that a disparaging comment about a redhead singing Wagner is insulting to his aunt in order to provoke a duel. A character in this novel is invited to an interview in a pitch black room, where he obtains a job despite his only qualification being his willingness to work. Its protagonist is surprised to be followed by the paralytic Professor de Worms. This book's first chapter is titled "The Two (*) Poets of Saffron Park." In this novel, the Marquis de St. Eustache is revealed to be an undercover policeman, and a terrorist organization is led by a council of seven leaders. It opens with Lucien Gregory trying to convince his friend to join an anarchist group. For 10 points, name this novel in which Gabriel Syme is voted the title character, written by G.K. Chesterton.
The Man Who Was Thursday
8

137516-)
Description acceptable. A character in this scene artfully describes damnation as "the primrose way to the everlasting bonfire" after proclaiming that "this place is too cold for hell." This scene alludes to the story of Henry Garnet, a Jesuit who encouraged persecuted Catholics to be as ambiguous as possible, by describing a man who could not "equivocate to heaven." The central character in this scene imagines such men as a (*) farmer who hanged himself in expectation of plenty and a British tailor who stole from the French. Its main subject laments that drink provokes the desire for lechery, but takes away the ability to perform the act. It is the subject of an essay by Thomas De Quincey. For 10 points, name this scene in which an inebriated porter in Macbeth laments his duties.
the knocking at the gate in Macbeth [or equivalents; or Act II Scene III of Macbeth]
8

137529-)
In this city, a man quotes A.E. Housman's "From far, from eve and morning" to convince a woman to befriend his son. Upon entering a bedroom in this city, a character notices a massive question mark written on a sheet of paper pinned above the sink. While traveling to this city, a group of people reconcile when a lightning strike downs a power line a safe distance from their carriage. The protagonist of a novel (*) faints upon seeing a murder here, dropping some photographs that become stained with the victim's blood. While on a carriage ride originating in this city, a woman is scandalously kissed in a field of violets. Lucy Honeychurch has her Baedeker stolen outside of its Church of Santa Croce. For 10 points, name this setting of the first half of A Room with a View
Florence
8

137545-)
In a comic scene in this book, a man who is supposed to be playing blind man's bluff chases his friend's fat sister into a corner so he can feel her up. A character in this book claims that he has 1,800 brothers, referring in part to the residents of a miner's cottage, lighthouse keepers, and sailors caught in a storm. In a rephrasing of his own words, its main character is asked "Are there no (*) prisons?" and "Are there no workhouses" when he is confronted with two children whose names are Want and Ignorance. The main character of this book is abandoned by his fiance, Belle, because she claims that he worships a different idol, and crassly refuses a dinner invitation from his nephew, Fred. For 10 points, name this book in which the chained apparition of Jacob Marley visits Ebenezer Scrooge.
A Christmas Carol
8

137546-)
The negotiating skills of a character in this collection are used to show how it is divine grace that allows the wit of a simple man to outsmart many educated men. Another character in this collection wears a brooch with a wreathed letter "A" and the motto "Amor Vincit Omnia." A man who appears in it accepts a brass dowry to marry a former nun because he wants to wed a virgin, and later unfastens the (*) horse of two students to distract them from their business. The first portion of this collection opens by describing how the droughts of March are relieved by the rains of April. A story in it adapts the fabliau of the cradle trick to have two men sleep with the wife and daughter of the miller Simkin. For 10 points, name this collection including "The Reeve's Tale," written by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales
8

137550-)
When this character has a guitar hurled at his head, he miraculously catches it and sings a ballad about Canute failing to part the ocean. This character is resurrected after being stabbed by Roger de Backbite at the Siege of Chalons. In a different appearance, this character seals a pledge by giving a prior an ivory box, while his rival gives up a gold chain. He travels to Ashby-de-la-Zouch disguised as a (*) Palmer. This subject of a Thackeray novella titled for two of his love interests engages in a series of fights under the name "Desdichado," erroneously referencing his being disinherited by Cedric the Saxon. Many Victorian readers wished that he had married the Jewish woman Rebecca instead of the Christian woman Rowena. For 10 points, name this title character of a Walter Scott novel.
Wilfred of Ivanhoe [accept either underlined name]
8

137553-)
A character created by this writer reveals her poverty by always wearing the same green dress. In a plot point devised by this writer, a commander tries to convince his friend not to withdraw his investment in his plan to provide boots for Sudanese soldiers. He drafted a scene in which a Turkish diplomat dies in the bed of a married woman after having sex with her, causing a group of women to have to move the corpse back to his room. In a (*) movie written by this man, Sir William is killed because of how he sexually manipulated his factory workers during World War One. He created an American heiress named Cora Levinson, who marries into the Crawley family. For 10 points, name this screenwriter of Gosford Park who created and almost exclusively wrote Downton Abbey.
Julian Fellowes
8

137558-)
A character created by this author has his name misspelled in his obituary after he is trampled to death by an elephant at the Dresden zoo. He wrote a piece whose title character accuses a woman of being the only person stupid enough to buy a car nicknamed "The Envy of Sisyphus" because it has to be pushed uphill. A fictional religion created by this writer involves making an offering of stolen nutmeg every Thursday, to which a (*) boy attributes the three-day toothache of Mrs. de Ropp. A story by this man begins with Cornelius Appin declaring that he has developed a talking cat. In another story, he wrote about Conradin, who worships a ferret that kills his governess. For 10 points, name this humorist who wrote "Tobermory" and "Sredni Vashtar."
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro]
8

137560-)
. J.R.R. Tolkien may have named the Green Dragon Inn after a bar in this novel called the Green Dragon, where several characters run up debts gambling on pool. A character in this novel allows a seriously ill alcoholic access to his brandy, knowing that the liquor will likely kill him. Its prelude claims that, while Saint Teresa led a life of greatness, there are many people who are just as good but never have the chance to achieve fame. A character in this novel (*) burns the second will of Mr. Featherstone. Because he made his fortune pawning stolen goods, a banker in this book is blackmailed by John Raffles. It includes the story of Edward Casaubon, whose will denies his wife her inheritance if she gets remarried to Will Ladislaw. For 10 points, name this novel titled for an English town by George Eliot.
Middlemarch
8

137582-)
A character created by this writer thinks it too cruel to scare away crows from a field, and he later gets out of bed to kill a trapped rabbit. In a novel by this author, a woman inadvertently obtains her brother's inheritance after her admirer wins both of their legacies in a dice game. He wrote a novel that both opens and ends on Guy Fawkes Day, and that book includes a salesman of (*) sheep dyes who is perpetually stained red. A fictional suicide note by this writer reads "Done because we are too menny." Damon Wildeve and Eustacia Vye drown at the end of a novel by this man, who killed off several characters in a different book when Little Father Time commits suicide after murdering two of Sue Bridehead's children. For 10 points, name this author of The Return of the Native and Jude the Obscure.
Thomas Hardy
8

137758-)
This author described a certain type of work in Stepping Stones as giving "the high of finishing something you don't have to start." In one translation by this author the speaker sees "two soldered in a frozen hole / On top of other, one's skull capping the other's" and is meant to parallel events of Gerry Adams' life. This poet's collections include the punningly titled book The Midnight Verdict, which translates poems by Merriman. One translation by this poet emphasizes the "four-squareness of the utterance" of its title character. That translation by this poet employed a style called (*) "Scullionspeak," and opens with "So" in place of "HWÃ†T", before describing "The Spear-Danes in days gone by". The most famous of translation by this man is his Beowulf. For 10 points, name this translator, who also wrote the collection The Death of a Naturalist.
Seamus Heaney
8

137787-)
In this novel, one character excessively wipes a plate dry since he has not yet learned to do housework properly after his wife's death. One character in this novel recalls a newspaper article in which a priest claims the "DEVIL THAT WAS ABROAD" is responsible for reprehensible behavior of "modern youth." In this novel, the protagonist returns home to find all his stuff sold and the stranger Joe living in his room. Dolin, da Silva, and Rubinstein (*) lock this novel's protagonist in a room, where he reads the headlines of two pamphlets causing him to jump out of a window. The writer F. Alexander's manuscript shares its name with this novel. The protagonist of this novel undergoes Ludovico's Technique to "cure" him of his violence, and speaks Nadsat to his "droogs." For 10 points, name this novel about the classical music obsessed Alex, written by Anthony Burgess.
A Clockwork Orange
8

137792-)
In a story by this author, a character advises his cousin that one ought to beg from courting couples rather married ones. That story begins with its central character daydreaming about dodgem cars while his teacher talks about Masterman Ready and concludes with his cousin Bert trying to break them onto the title carousel at the Goose Fair. The family of the narrator of another story by this man entertains itself by muting the TV during politician's speeches. This author of "Noah's Ark" created a character who hypothesized that "as soon as you get the whip-hand over somebody" you go dead while describing his personal definition of (*) honesty. That character is arrested by "Hitler-face" after rain washes stolen money out of a drainpipe. A story by this author ends when its narrator allows a boy from Gunthorpe to overtake him to spite the governor of his borstal. For 10 points, name this author The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner.
Alan Sillitoe
8

137831-)
This author created a character who invents a fake oculist, chiropodist and lawyer to excuse his frequent jaunts to Chelsea. That character appears in a novel by this author in which he decides to attend a post-cremation tea party after he discovers that the deceased's secret husband will be there. A novel by this author includes Charmian, who constantly forgets that her former maid Jean Taylor now lives in a nursing home. That novel by this author opens with the prison reformer Dame Lettie receiving a (*) phone call that simply says "Remember, you must die." Another novel by this author describes Transfiguration of the Commonplace, which was written by Sister Helena, who used to be called Sandy Stranger. That novel by this author of Memento Mori concerns a set that Miss Mackay tries to break up at Marcia Blaine School. For 10 points, name this author The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.
Muriel Spark
8

137852-)
This author ran a house magazine called Hyde Park Gate News. A story by this author repeatedly describes how the house's heart beats "Safe, safe, safe." That story by this author describes a "ghostly couple" walking around pointing out places where they shared "kisses without number." In another story by this author a man walks ahead of his wife while reminiscing about how a dragonfly not landing on a leaf meant his then beloved rejected his marriage proposal. This author's story (*) "Kew Gardens" was posthumously published in A Haunted House by the Hogarth Press, which she founded with her husband. A novel by this author describes the suicide of Septimus Smith, which takes place on the same night as a party hosted by a woman who reflects on her kiss with Sally Seaton. For 10 points, name this author of Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf
8

137873-)
A poem by this poet describes man being enclosed to rest in an "ebony box...till the day" thus giving "new wheels to our disorder'd clocks." Another poem by this poet opens by lamenting "O spiteful bitter thought! / Bitterly spiteful thought!" before seeking "Assurance" from one who holds "my hand, while I did write." In one poem this poet varied line lengths to create an image of an object that is "made of a heart, and (*) cemented with tears." The lines of another poem by this poet contract and grow in accordance with the health of the speaker, and are at their narrowest when he is "most poor" or "most thin." This man's innovation with visual poetry produced works like "The Altar" and "Easter Wings." For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet of the collection The Temple.
George Herbert [the poem in the lead-in is "Even-Song"
8

137876-)
In a long poem titled for this city the line "There is no lily of the valley" is oriented vertically down the centre of the page. That poem prefaces with "H u s s s h" a pianississimo piece of music with the lyric "diminuendo". That poem is by Hope Mirrlees. After falling in love with a woman who introduces herself in the lobby of a circus by saying "I don't want to be here", a woman who runs a "pauper" salon for poets moves to this European city. This city is where the relationship of (*) Robin Vote and Nora Flood falls apart in Nightwood by Djuna Barnes. A novel set in this continental city ends with the thought "it is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done." That thought belongs to the man who takes Charles Darnay's place at the guillotine, Sidney Carton. For 10 points name this French city, the partial setting Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities.
Paris
8

137913-)
One character in this work cries and "in the middle of her salty howling, nimbly spears a small flatfish and pelicans it whole" after her husband, when asked whether he prefers Fred or Arthur, first replies Bach and then Palestrina. A man in this work whose leg was scythed off while sleeping, is thought of as having died "of drink and agriculture" by his son, Eli Jenkins. This work begins with a voice describing the "bible-black" town and the "sloeblack, slow, black, crowblack, (*) fishingboatbobbing sea." A lino salesman and a man who died drinking bleach are the two husbands we see Mrs. Ogmore-Pritchard dream about nagging in this play, much of which is narrated by the mournful Captain Cat. This play is set in Llareggub. For 10 points name this radio play by Dylan Thomas about a fictional Welsh fishing village.
Under Milk Wood
8

137927-)
This writer negatively compared the present age to Walt Whitman's, saying that there is "less emphasis on the cradle, endlessly rocking" and more on "the teapot, endlessly stewing." This author wrote that in the East, "a story always sounds clear enough at a distance, but the nearer you get...the vaguer it becomes." In an essay, this writer analyzed the successive schools of literature following World War I and explained that 1930s writers were attracted to communism because they needed something to believe in. This writer praised the passive attitude taken by (*) Henry Miller in Tropic of Cancer, analogizing him to Jonah in "Inside the Whale." In an essay by this author, the mahout is the only person who can handle an animal that has "gone must," and the narrator kills it "to avoid looking a fool." For 10 points, name this British author, whose time in Burma inspired his essay "Shooting an Elephant."
George Orwell [accept Eric Arthur Blair]
8

137949-)
A collection partly titled for this sort of person begins "Go, little Book; thyself present, As Child whose Parent is unkent" and features conversations between two of them named Theonot and Hobbinol. In another poem, one of these people is told "When Rivers rage and Rocks grow cold, / And Philomel becometh dumb, / The rest complains of cares to come." A poem spoken by one of these people describes "A gown made of the finest wool" and "A belt of straw and Ivy buds." One of these people named (*) Colin Clout is the subject of a "calendar" by Edmund Spenser. Walter Raleigh wrote a reply to a poem spoken by a person of this profession who begs "Come live with me and be my love." For 10 points, name this profession of the "Passionate" speaker of a Christopher Marlowe poem and of most characters in pastoral poetry.
shepherds
8

137969-)
Photographer F. Holland Day was very possessive of his extensive archive relating to this poet, frustrating Amy Lowell's attempts to write a biography of him. A poem by this author asks what is "more serene than Cordelia's countenance" and "more gentle than a wind in summer," answering that it is the "soft closer of our eyes," sleep. The speaker exhorts "O love me truly!" at the end of every stanza in "You say you love; but with a voice." This poet of "Sleep and Poetry" described how he was convinced of humour's superiority to wit in a letter that described the (*) capacity to be in uncertainty without "any irritable reaching after fact." He wrote that "heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are sweeter" in a poem addressing an "Attic shape" described as a "foster-child of Silence and slow Time." For 10 points, name this poet who declared "Beauty is truth, truth beauty" in "Ode on a Grecian Urn."
John Keats
8

137995-)
The sixth stanza of a poem by this author describes the thought of various classical thinkers, stating "Plato thought nature but a spume." That poem by this author goes on to describe how "labour is blossoming or dancing / where the body is not brFuised." Another poem by this author describes how "masterful Heaven intervened" to prevent a "pity-crazed" character this author created from giving "her soul away." The speaker of that poem by this poet states "I sought a (*) theme and sought for it in vain." Another poem by this author describes a "lion body with the head of a man" that appears as a "vast image out of Spiritus Mundi." This poet of "The Circus Animals Desertion" and "Among School Children" also wrote a poem that claims "Things fall apart; the center cannot hold." For 10 points, name this Irish poet of "The Second Coming".
William Butler Yeats
8

138003-)
At one point the speaker of this poem describes "that high Capital, where Kingly Death keeps his pale court in beauty and decay", before mentioning "the twilight chamber" where "Invisible Corruption" and "The eternal Hunger" reside. The speaker of this poem exclaims "Ah, woe is me! Winter is come and gone, / But grief returns with the revolving year". This poem instructs the reader to "Go thou to Rome", and to "Follow where all is fled! Â– Rome's azure sky". The speaker of this poem asks (*) "where was lorn Urania", and later proclaims "Peace, peace! He is not dead, he doth not sleep". One section of this work states that "Life, like a dome of many-colour'd glass, Stains the white radiance of Eternity". For 10 points, identify this poem whose speaker describes the soul of the title figure as being "like a star" that "Beacons from the abode where the Eternal are", a work by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
Adonais: An Elegy on the Death of John Keats
8

138043-)
A character in this play angrily demands a clock to strike ten before saying that "Betwixt thy begging and my meditation. / I am not in the giving vein today." It's not part of the Henriad, but discussion of the claim that "succeeding ages have re-edified" a place begun by Julius Caesar precedes an aside in this play which asserts that "So wise, so young, they say, do never live long." The line "Off with his head! So much for" a character in this play was added in a rewriting by (*) Colley Cibber. Ghosts of the title character of this play's victims command him to "despair and die." The speaker of a soliloquy in this play resolves that "since I cannot prove a lover...I am determined to prove a villain." The title character of this play's last lines before being slain by Richmond is "A horse! A horse! My kingdom for a horse!" For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play that begins with Gloucester declaiming "Now is the winter of our discontent made glorious summer by this son of York."
Richard III
8

138076-)
A poem by this author describes a couple who "went together in glowing August weather" so as to "escape...by never turning back." Another poem by this author consists entirely of one line questions followed by one line answers, such as: "Shall I find comfort, travel-sort and weak? / Of labour you shall find the sum." In another poem by this author a figure that is a part of a group that sounds "kind and full of loves" is described as prowling like "a wombat...obtuse and furry." This author of (*) "Amor Mundi" and "Up-Hill" wrote of a time when "frosty wind make moan" so "Earth stood hard as iron." This author of the carol "In the bleak midwinter" wrote a poem which ends with Laura telling children how "there is no friend like a sister." That poem by this poet includes the refrain "come buy, come buy." For 10 points, name this poet of "Goblin Market".
Christina Rossetti
8

138096-)
This poem lists "the Almanach de Gotha" and "the Directory of Directors" among things that go into "into the silent funeral, Nobody's funeral, for there is no one to bury." A book by the author's ancestor titled The Governour is the source of some lines in this poem, which asserts that "Old men ought to be explorers." This poem laments "twenty years largely wasted, the years of l'entre deux guerres," a period of time that included its author's divorce from his wife (*) Vivienne Haigh-Wood. It analogizes Christ saving man from original sin to the "wounded surgeon" who "plies the steel." This poem's title locale is a village in Somerset that contains the church of St. Michael's, where the author's ashes were later buried under a plaque that quotes its closing and opening - "In my end is my beginning" and "In my beginning is my end." For 10 points, name this poem that comes after "Burnt Norton," the second of the Four Quartets.
"East Coker"
9

138108-)
The protagonist of this play expresses his writing philosophy in stating "I say, if you've got a political axe to grind...go write a fucking essay!" In a story in this play, it is explained that William Shakespeare wrote his plays by jabbing a pygmy woman to force her to write. The protagonist of this play explains how, after he discovered that his parents were trying to make him a great writer by exposing him to his brother's tortured screams, he smothered them to death. The title (*) spirit of this play travels back in time to tell children of their future miseries and convince children to kill themselves. The protagonist is shot with a bag over his head by Ariel and Tupolski after it is discovered that his brother Michal committed a series of child murders which resemble his short stories. For 10 points, the writer Katurian lives in a police state in what Martin McDonagh play?
The Pillowman
9

138129-)
In the late 17th century, about four thousand Palatine Germans settled as neighbors of people of this ethnicity and were compared favorably to them for farming productivity. Details of their social conditions were edited out of an 1892 re-publishing of the accounts of agriculturalist Arthur Young's tours. Friedrich Engels, who noted that these people retained a communal property of "Anno 1600" long after their neighbors and said they lived "almost without civilization," quipped "If I had 200,000" of these people "I could overthrow the (*) British monarchy. Farmers of this ethnicity were championed by so-called "white boys" who hamstrung cattle and raped women at night. In the 17th and 18th centuries, brigands among these people called "tories" gave rise to the name of a political faction. Religious conversion among these people was encouraged to by the Penal Laws. For 10 points, people of what ethnicity used "coffin ships" to emigrate after a potato famine?
Irish people [or Irishmen]
9

138175-)
An older version of this play gives a Latin name for a disabled old man, Corambis, to one of its characters, and is known as its "bad" quarto. Tina Packer's book Women of Will says that a line of female characters "dying to tell the truth" begins with a woman in this play who describes the protagonist as "the glass of fashion and mould of form." In a scene linked to the dismissal of William Kempe, a character in this play admonishes to "be not too tame, either, and let your own discretion be your tutor" and (*) "Speak the speech, I pray you;" that criticism of clowns that opens its Act 3, Scene 2. Originating in the story of a prince described by Saxo Grammaticus, this play is thought to draw on a lost "Ur-" work about a character with the same name by Thomas Kyd. The plays The Mousetrap and The Murder of Gonzago are put on in-- for 10 points--what play set in Elsinore castle?
Hamlet
9

138288-)
In an amusing episode, this character tugged at the "snarled root of [a] dead crab-apple," but the plant "rose against him," leaving this character "lightly concussed." As a child, this character once sat at his desk, "smeared catmint on his palm for his cat Smut to lick," and began to cry because his Latin homework was too challenging. After visiting Boethius' dungeon, this character strolls back to his car, observes the "Tiber foaming out much blood," and continues on his trip to Rome. Before vanishing, this character leaves behind "coins, for his lodging, and traces of red mud." After hearing a panegyric which lists this character's many titles, including "overlord of the (*) M5", he says: "I liked that... sing it again." This character's funeral is described in the last four poems of a 30-poem collection inspired by the poet's childhood in the West Midlands. For 10 points, name this character, a fictionalization of a ruler of the title region of Geoffrey Hill's Mercian Hymns.
Offa of Mercia
9

138312-)
In an amusing episode, this character tugged at the "snarled root of [a] dead crab-apple," but the plant "rose against him," leaving this character "lightly concussed." As a child, this character once sat at his desk, "smeared catmint on his palm for his cat Smut to lick," and began to cry because his Latin homework was too challenging. After visiting Boethius' dungeon, this character strolls back to his car, observes the "Tiber foaming out much blood," and continues on his trip to Rome. Before vanishing, this character leaves behind "coins, for his lodging, and traces of red mud." After hearing a panegyric which lists this character's many titles, including "overlord of the (*) M5", he says: "I liked that... sing it again." This character's funeral is described in the last four poems of a 30-poem collection inspired by the poet's childhood in the West Midlands. For 10 points, name this character, a fictionalization of a ruler of the title region of Geoffrey Hill's Mercian Hymns.
Offa of Mercia
9

138605-)
This author created the all-powerful corporation Merlins, known as the Firm, which causes the death of the protagonist's lover Iolanthe, who is later resurrected as a robot which sacrifices itself to destroy the Firm's head. His first novel is narrated by an autobiographical character surnamed Lucifer and draws from the diary entries of "Death" Gregory. A novel (*) series by this author begins with Bruce meeting up with Piers and Sylvie, who travel to Egypt and join a Gnostic cult led by Akkad. He referred to that series, consisting of the novels Monsieur, Livia, Constance, Sebastian and Quinx, as a "quincunx." For 10 points, name this author of The Revolt of Aphrodite, The Black Book, and The Avignon Quintet, who also wrote The Alexandria Quartet.
Lawrence Durrell
9

138622-)
One of these texts describes a woman wrapping her miscarried child in wool and saying "I sell it, you must sell it, this black wool and the seeds of this grief." Another of these texts describes the practice of writing the names of the Seven Sleepers of Ephesus on seven communion wafers, which is why some speculate that the mysterious dwarf mentioned in that text refers to a sleep disorder. One of these texts refers to certain animals as "victory-women," which Jacob Grimm suggested was a reference to the (*) Valkyries. The only twelve extant texts of this kind are preserved in the Lacnunga and Bald's Leechbook. Presumably, Quizbowl's favorite one of these texts is     the one called "For a Swarm of Bees." For 10 points, identify these Anglo-Saxon magic spells.
Anglo-Saxon metrical charms [accept "Anglo-Saxon spells" before mentioned]
9

138624-)
A play by this author ends with a scene in which a character fixes a chair while other characters silently go about their household lives, and the only line spoken in that scene is "Fetch me 'ammer." Another of his plays begins with the assertion "The events of this play are true," even though its events include a character eating someone who butted in front of him in line, and Queen Victoria strangling Prince Albert with a garter sash and having a lesbian affair with Florence Nightingale. The abolition of theatre censorship in Britain in 1968 was influenced by the controversy surrounding a play by this author in which a baby is (*) stoned to death in its pram. The title character has daughters named Bodice and Fontanelle in a Shakespeare adaptation by this playwright whose extreme acts of violence include knitting needles being jabbed into Warrington's ears and the main character's eyeballs being removed. For 10 points, name this British author of Early Morning, Saved and Lear
Edward Bond
9

138653-)
This event is described after a mention of how "the first of all the tribe lay there and did such pleasure take," and before a mention of how she cried "Strike me if I shriek," in the poem "His Memories." A poem referencing this event describes a woman "with a mind that nobleness made simple as a fire, with beauty like a tightened bow." That poem asks "Why should I blame her that she filled my days with misery?" and (*) "Why, what could she have done, being what she is?" That poem, inspired by the author's unrequited love for Maud Gonne, is called "No Second [this event]." This conflict is engendered by "a shudder in the loins" in the poem "Leda and the Swan." For 10 points, name this war mentioned in several W. B. Yeats poems, which is also the subject of the Iliad.
the Trojan War [accept Troy]
9

138690-)
This poet's complaint about Ben Jonson's phrase "the bodies that those souls were frighted from" is probably the source of the prescription against using prepositions to end sentences with. Matthew Prior and Charles Montagu parodied one of this author's poems using the story of the country mouse and the city mouse. That poem, which coined the term "blaze of glory," begins by describing an animal "immortal and (*) unchang'd." This poet was targeted in the satire The Medal of John Bayes by a Protestant poet who he described as "the last great prophet of tautology." A poem by this author notes "when fate summons, monarchs must obey" after starting "all human things are subject to decay," and satirizes Thomas Shadwell. For 10 points, name this poet of The Hind and the Panther and Mac Flecknoe.
John Dryden
9

138720-)
This character makes a woman swear an oath on a cross with a hand carved in it because he thinks it's a holy relic, but it turns out to have been the site where a criminal was tortured by having his hand nailed to it. In a sleepwalking scene, he repeats the words "dead, dead, dead" and picks up his wife, carries her across a river and places her in a coffin, where he falls asleep. At the end of the novel, he joins hands with (*) Liza-Lu after watching her sister's execution. Izz, Retty and Marian are tragically in love with this character, who instead marries the protagonist, but leaves her when she reveals that she gave birth to a child named Sorrow after being raped by Alec. For 10 points, name this husband of the title character of Thomas Hardy's Tess of the D'Urbervilles.
Angel Clare [accept either name]
9

138725-)
In a poem about this thing, "Polypheme's white tooth slips on the nut" of this thing "if after frequent showers the shell is over-smooth." In another poem, this thing crowns the speaker with "a ruby large enow to draw men's eyes." Another poem asks "the world's sharpness like a clasping knife" to "shut in upon itself and do no harm" in the hand of this thing. In yet another poem, the addressee is told to "gather the (*) north flowers to complete the south" and "catch the early" form of this concept "up in the late." A "mystic Shape" grabs the speaker by her hair and declares that he is "not Death, but" this concept in a poem beginning "I thought once how Theocritus had sung." For 10 points, name this subject of Elizabeth Barrett Browning's Sonnets from the Portuguese.
love
9

138729-)
This poem opens by describing a peaceful scene in which a stream flows silently beneath an "old mossy bridge" and there is "a pleasure in the dimness of the stars." This poem describes "a most gentle Maid, who dwelleth in her hospitable home hard by the castle." Its final stanza tells its subject "farewell ... till to-morrow eve" and ends "once more, my friends, farewell." The speaker of this poem takes his crying son outside to see the moon, which immediately stops his tears. This poem quotes afnd then proceeds to dispute (*) Milton's characterization of its subject as "most musical, most melancholy." The term "conversation poem" was coined in reference to this poem's subtitle. For 10 points, name this Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem about a bird which is also the subject of a Keats ode.
"The Nightingale: A Conversation Poem"
9

138736-)
A painter in this play praises unfinished paintings, especially Michelangelo's Virgin and Child with the Angels. In this play's most romantic gesture, a man kisses his wife all over her face, saying "I bless thee: temporoÂ·mandibular joint, I bless thee: buccal artery and nerve," and so forth. A character in this play hires the morally upstanding Elizabeth as a wet nurse because Elizabeth's child has recently died, and because she believes morality travels through milk. Aside from the final scene, in which Mrs. (*) Givings and her husband make naked snow angels and have sex outside, this play is entirely set in a living room and an adjoining operating theater. For 10 points, name this comedy about the treatment of hysteria in the Victorian era, written by Sarah Ruhl.
In the Next Room [or The Vibrator Play
9

138748-)
This character is interviewed by two detectives from Geneva who he nicknames Fafner and Fasolt. He observes the bickering of Mr. McLeod and Mr. Campbell, two long-time residents at the tuberculosis sanatorium where he ends up. This character is summoned to the deathbed of an elderly governess employed by an Egyptian prince, but due to her recent stroke, the only thing she is able to say to him is "England." He fails to convince Harrington to leave Petrograd without picking up his (*) laundry first, so Harrington is killed in the revolution that breaks out. This character is sent to Italy to track down a Greek revolutionary along with a man known as the Hairless Mexican. In many of the stories in which he appears, he is given assignments by a man who, like Robert Hentzel, is known only as "R." For 10 points, name this British agent written about by Somerset Maugham.
Ashenden
9

138758-)
One of these characters accuses a chambermaid of stealing her pearls, which had in fact been stolen by the criminal Soapy Sid and his accomplice, Aline Hemmingway. At the behest of that one of these characters, a man gives a speech in which he tells the story of two Irishmen named Pat and Mike, who say to each other "Begorrah, the race is not always to the swift" and "Faith and begob, education is a drawing out, not a putting in." One of       these characters tells the protagonist to go to an antique shop and look disdainfully at a (*) cow creamer to drive the price down, so her husband Tom can buy it. One of these characters employs the exceptionally talented French chef Anatole at her country house, Brinkley Court. One of them is a governor at Market Snodsbury Grammar School, at which a drunken Gussie Fink-Nottle gives a disastrous speech. For 10 points, name these characters, including Agatha and Dahlia, who are relatives of a P. G. Wodehouse character who employs Jeeves.
Bertie Wooster's aunts [or Bertie Wooster's aunts]
9

138759-)
The speaker of John Denham's poem "Cooper Hill" wishes he could make this thing "my great example, as it is my theme!" This thing says "I remember the bat-winged lizard-birds" in a speech ending "and that's where your history-books begin!" from a poem by Rudyard Kipling. This thing "hast seen full many a sprightly race" trace "the paths of pleasure" in a poem in which it asked "What idle (*) progeny succeed to chase the rolling circle's speed, or urge the flying ball?" Pope's "Windsor Forest" is the origin of the personification of this thing as an "old father." In Matthew Arnold's "The Scholar-Gipsy," life before "this strange disease of modern life" is said to have run gaily like this thing. This thing is told to "run softly till I end my song" in Spenser's Prothalamion. For 10 points, name this river often mentioned in English poetry.
Thames River
9

138779-)
This character tells his son "all places that the eye of heaven visits are to a wise man ports and happy havens," concluding "there is no virtue like necessity." When asked to avenge his brother's death, this character demurs, saying that "God's is the quarrel" and "let heaven revenge." One of this character's speeches laments how his country is "leas'd out ... like to a tenement or pelting farm." That speech consists largely of a list of flowery descriptions, like "precious (*) stone set in the silver sea," "demi-paradise," "seat of Mars," and "sceptred isle," and is a paean to England. On his deathbed, this character offers harsh advice to the king, who ignores him and seizes his land, sparking a revolt by this man's son, Henry Bolingbroke. For 10 points, name this character from Richard II, based on a historical Duke of Lancaster who was Edward the Black Prince's younger brother.
John of Gaunt [accept either underlined name; accept Duke of Lancaster before mentioned]
9

138782-)
A poem conventionally named after this thing is narrated by a ruler lamenting the waning of his former power, and ends with a hope that mankind will "see the true God and rejoice in his kindred for all time." An unusual form of this thing is known as the "amphisbaenic" type. This thing causes "all Parnassus' green" to wither in a poem which lays the curse "may his joints tormented be" on its inventor. That poem, which describes this thing as "the (*) rack of finest wits," is by Ben Jonson, and is called "A Fit of [this thing] against [itself]." Rather than making use of this thing, Old English poetry was typically alliterative. For 10 points, name this device used in many poems, in which multiple lines have phonetically similar endings.
rhyme
9

138805-)
This poet addressed "well meaning readers!" at the beginning of a poem about a woman with a seraphim beside her. Alexander Pope was harshly critical of this poet even though, as Samuel Johnson pointed out, Pope plagiarized some of his lines. This author was honored by Thomas Car in a poem based on an anagram of his name, though Car had to add an "e" to the end of his name to make the anagram work. This poet wrote "the modest water saw its God, and blushed" to describe the wedding at Cana in a book of Latin (*) epigrams. "The Flaming Heart" is one of three poems he wrote in honor of St. Teresa of Avila. For 10 points, name this Catholic metaphysical poet who wrote collections like Epigrammaticum Sacrorum Liber and Steps to the Temple.
Richard Crashaw
9

138809-)
A book about this character has a surrealistic cover image of a nude woman whose body is turning into a giant ear, with a disembodied eyeball staring at her from the sky. Another book about this character was published with a fake slipcover with the title The Bible to Be Read as Literature. This character befriends the Greek communist Ariadne Alexandrou in a novel named after a member of the Chinese People's Liberation Army who plots to (*) sabotage a peace conference. The author of a novel about this character also wrote a critical study of the earlier novels about him, called this character's "dossier," and a manual written under the pseudonym Bill Tanner. For 10 points, name this subject of Kingsley Amis's Colonel Sun, a spy originally created by Ian Fleming.
James Bond [accept either name; accept 007]
9

138830-)
This poet pointedly made the word "death" the entirely of the last line of a poem ending "Let me be gathered to the quiet west, the sundown splendid and serene, death." That poem is called "Margaritae Sorori." He wrote a poem each of whose stanzas ends with the phrase "your bugles blown." That poem, "Pro Rege Nostro," begins "What have I done for you, England, my England?" This poet included a pun referring to the (*) amputation of his leg in the line "it matters not how strait the gate" in a poem declaring "under the bludgeoning of chance my head is bloody, but unbowed." That poem ends "I am the master of my fate: I am the captain of my soul." For 10 points, name this author of "Invictus."
William Ernest Henley
9

138833-)
A character in this short story is expelled for drunkenly shooting fruit off of the protagonist's head with a crossbow. In this story, words beginning with the letters "e-x" are spelled without the initial "e." Some characters in this story are told that, once they receive twelve stars for their work, they will be rewarded with a trip to Hawaii. This story is framed as an interview between the title character and the (*) Archivist. A movie based on this story is watched by Zachry's child in "Sloosha's Crossin' an' Ev'rythin' After," and this story's protagonist in turn        watches a movie based on "The Ghastly Ordeal of Timothy Cavendish." Its title character is a fabricant who works as a server at Papa Song's restaurant. For 10 points, name this story set in a dystopian Korea, one of the six nested stories in David Mitchell's Cloud Atlas.
"An Orison of Sonmi~451"
9

138852-)
In one essay, this author recalls that, on two separate occasions, she kicked a lover out of her bed for disagreeing with her about the relationship between Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy in Adam's Rib. She      contrasts the novelistic techniques of Joseph O'Neill's Netherland and Tom McCarthy's Remainder in the essay "Two Directions for the Novel." Essays on Middlemarch and (*) Barack Obama's language are included in a collection by this author divided into the sections "Reading," "Being," "Seeing," and "Feeling." An essay by Elaine Scarry provides the title of one of this author's novels. This author of the essay collection Changing My Mind inspired James Wood to coin the term "hysterical realism." For 10 points, name this contemporary author whose novels include On Beauty and White Teeth.
Zadie Smith
9

138915-)
Dieter Mehl wrote a monograph studying the development of this dramatic technique, which is used five times in presenting the lives of Troilus and Cressida, Caesar and Pompey, Hero and Leander, Alexander the Great, and Dido in order to settle an argument between Venus and Fortune in The Rare Triumphs of Fortune and Love. This dramatic device is used for the wedding of Violanta and Gerrard, Gerrard's arrest, and the presentation of Ferdinand's and Violanta's bodies in "The Triumph of Love" in Fletcher's Four Plays in One. This device is used when two pilgrims at the shrine to Our Lady of Loreto witness the Cardinal dress for war and then banish Antonio and the Duchess in Webster's The Duchess of Malfi. In early English drama, this device was often used to foretell the argument of a play or act, as when Lucianus wins Baptista with gifts, after murdering his uncle by pouring poison into Gonzago's ear in Act III, Scene 2 of Hamlet. For 10 points, name these mute, pantomime pieces found within Renaissance drama.  
Dumbshows [accept "Pantomime" before "Pantomime" is said; do not accept "Masque"]
9

138916-)
Kelsie Harder argued that this type of play, as a class, was the source for The Miller's Tale. In a satirical moment echoing local changes in laws, an alewife in one play of this type must stay in hell for adulterating her ale with hops and other ingredients, and the addition of the role of the Expositor to a number of these plays from Chester has been argued to be a result of the Reformation. Staging of these plays, which are  the only source of the medieval tradition of Noah's wife as a drunken shrew, who must be forced aboard the ark, fell to guilds, who often used roofed, wagon-like stages called paginae. Major cycles of these plays include the N Town, the Wakefield, and the York, the last of which consists of 48 plays spanning from Creation to Doomsday. For 10 points, often performed on Whitsun or the feast Corpus Christi, these are what biblically inspired medieval plays?
Mystery Plays [or Mystery Pageants or Mysteries; accept "Corpus Christi Plays" before "Corpus Christi" is said; prompt on "Pageant Plays"; do not accept "Miracle Plays" or "Passion Plays"]
9

138917-)
In one play by this author, the fool Ward swears not to eat "eggs in moonshine", as they give him erections; that play opens as a man brags to his mother of his "unvalued'st purchase" of a wife. Another play by this author sees a woman hide a baby under some mutton to tricks the promoters into taking her child; that play sees foolish University graduate Tim first speaks to his fiancÃ©e in Latin, only to mistake her Welsh for Hebrew. A chess match between Mother and Livia mirrors a rape carried out above and offstage, in a play by this  author, which ends with a bloody masque in which Hippolito's and Isabella's incest is punished and Leantio's death avenged, all as the marriage of the Duke and Bianca ends in poisoned death. Allwit and his wife expel Sir Walter just as news comes that he slew the lover of his fiancÃ©e, Touchwood, who is wed to Moll Yellowhammer after their double funeral is revealed as a ruse in a comedy by this author. For 10 points, name this author of Women Beware Women and A Chaste Maid in Cheapside. 
Thomas Middleton 
9

138918-)
Early in this play, Dodger reports on the results of a battle, led by Askew, in which 16,000 were killed, including Hyam and Ardington "two gallant gentlemen" he knew well, and this play ends with the King declaring that "wars must right wrongs which Frenchmen have begun". Two gentlemen are cheated of a deer that they were chasing after encountering the maid Sybil and her mistress early in this play, leading to Richard Oatley's attempt to wed one of them to his daughter. Firke, Hodge, and a crowd of this play's title characters threaten the wealthy Hammon until he gives up his plans to wed Jane, who is instead reunited with her husband, Rafe, lamed in battle. Rowland Lacy takes the guise of the Dutchman Hans in order to escape fighting in France, so that he can instead wed his beloved Rose. For 10 points, the climax occurs on the title day, Shrove Tuesday, on which the newly appointed Mayor of London, Simon Eyre, gives a huge feast for all of the cobblers in what Thomas Dekker comedy? 
The Shoemakers' Holiday: A Pleasant Comedy of the Gentle Craft  
9

138919-)
One character in this play is beaten out of a party by his wife, after she hears him say her breath is worse than his grandmother's, though he returns dressed as a parson. Two men claim to have slept with this play's title character after Clerimont returns their swords, testimony used to prove them as liars to the Collegiates; those men, John Daw and Amorous la Foole were the butts of a joke wherein a rug-cloaked character beats them so that they can avoid fighting one another. One prolix character in this play forces the barber Cutbeard, his mediator in a marriage deal with the title character, and his servant, Mute, to answer only with silent gestures. This play's plot centers on an old man's attempt to disinherit his nephew by wedding a mute woman, due to his hatred of noise. For 10 points, Dauphine dissolves his uncle's marriage by proving that Morose married a boy instead of the title "silent woman" in what Ben Jonson comedy? 
Epicene, or The Silent Woman [accept "The Silent Woman" before it is said]
9

138920-)
In one play by this author, several of the title characters tut when Torcular confesses to using the same tired line to induce women to sleep with him, and he concludes his confession by admitting to sleeping with two old women. That play by this author ends with the title characters revealing themselves as the defeated forces of the Tamorens to save Samorat and Orsabrin from execution. In a play by this author, Orinthe commiserates with the title character over their love for a banished prince. In one ending to that play by this author of The Goblins, only Orsames and Philan are left alive among the principals, after Zorannes is killed by the queen's poison and the title character stabs her lover to death after the murder of his father and uncle Ariaspes. That play features a courtier singing to a youth "quit, quit, for shame, this will not move" her "if of herself she will not love". For 10 points, the poem "Why so pale and wan, fond lover?" is found in Aglaura, a play by what Cavalier poet, author of "A Ballade upon a Wedding"? 
Sir John Suckling 
9

138921-)
In this play's third act, one character delivers a parody of the services for the dead for the title character, chiding the latter each time he interrupts to echo the praise of himself that he hears. Later in this play, the title character nearly calls off a battle against the maids Margery Mumblecrust, Tibet Talkapace, and Annot Alyface, for lack of a helmet, until he is supplied with a kitchen pail, declared to be "the best hence to Greece". One character in this work intentionally misreads a letter, conflating the good fortunes of the recipient with the unhappiness of the sender, and later that same character promises to strike his friend in the head during a battle of kitchen utensils outside the house of a widow engaged to Gawyn Goodluck. For 10 points, Matthew Merrygreek goads the title character in his pursuit of the widow Dame Custance in what early Tudor comedy written by Nicholas Udall?
Ralph Roister Doister 
9

138922-)
One character in this play makes the argument that as Ferrardo is always seeking quarrels, he is seeking death and is, therefore, a coward to a man who tells another that he would rather side with the strongest, because he "had rather stand with wrong, than fall with right". In addition to the fool Passarello and the flatterer Bilioso, a character in this play, the bawd Masquerelle, insists to the title character that any woman can be won to adultery if she is approached in the right sign. One character in this play takes on the guise of a hermit in order to report his own death, after he is warned of the treachery of Mendoza by the title character, who along with that man and Ferneze reveal themselves to all at a ball in this play's final scene. For 10 points, In order to take back his kingdom, Duke Altofronto takes on the guise of Malevole, the dissatisfied title character, in what revenge comedy by John Marston?
The Malcontent 
9

138923-)
One character in this play declares that if a woman loves his wit better than his uncles, then he "will marry [her] in spite of [her] teeth", and later brags of being beaten with the hilt of a sword after going to see a horse whose head is behind its tail. Another character in this play taunts her husband with the excellence of the "angel-like" "more than man" from whom any woman would "have begged for love" after he discovers that she is pregnant. Philotis goes to Friar Bonaventura's cell to be wed to the fool Bergetto who is accidentally slain by Grimaldi, who conspired to kill the title character's suitor with a physician whose wife Hippolita was stolen by that man. The final scene of this play ends with Richardetto revealing himself, which is ignored, after Soranzo's murder and Giovanni's entrance with a heart impaled on his dagger. For 10 points, relating the downfall of the siblings and lovers Annabella and Giovanni, this is what John Ford tragedy?
'Tis Pity She's a Whore 
9

138924-)
The first act of a play named for this man ends with the Interpretour calling him a Moses to Henry VIII's Joshua; later in that play, Dissymulacyon asks that monks pray for him if he dies poisoning this man as Simon of Swinsett. Brian Vickers used computer analyses of one play about this man to attribute it to George Peele, and in that play, an ally of this man sees a vision of four moons orbited by a fifth. In another namesake play, this man declares a "young boy" to be "a very serpent in my way" and gives Hubert the subtle command "Death... A grave" for Arthur's murder. That play, adapted from another named for this man's "Troublesome Raigne", features soliloquies on "sweet, sweet, sweet poison for the age's tooth" on hypocrisy and one opening "Mad world, mad kings, mad composition!" given by Philip the Bastard, the foremost ally of this king in his wars with Philip II and Louis the Dauphin. For 10 points, name this Angevin king, subject of a Shakespeare history, in which he is excommunicated and England put under interdict. 
King John I of England [accept King Johan] 
9

138925-)
One character in this play offers a prayer in Latin in which he commends himself to the hands of Pontius Pilate, and later that same character casts a spell on the title characters of this play, in which he commands that they sleep until noon. The first speeches of Coll and Gib begin by complaining about the weather, before moving to landlords and wives respectively. Another character in this work complains about the constant stream of children that his wife gives birth to, and that character's last appearance in this play concludes with him being tossed in a blanket. The title characters give gifts of cherries, a bird, and a ball at the end of this play, when they discover the Christ-Child in the manger, but earlier had punished Mak and Gillot for their theft when they discovered in their crib one of their own sheep. For 10 points, attributed to the Wakefield Master, this is what mystery play named for the title men and this play's position after another named for the same men in the HM1 manuscript?
The Wakefield Second Shepherds' Play [or The Wakefield Second Shepherds' Pageant; prompt on partial answers, including "Wakefield Shepherds' Play"]
9

138926-)
One scene in this play ends with a character afraid lest the "whispering of the wind/convey our words amongst unfriendly ears" and then gloat in Italian that what he wishes, he alone knows. This play's protagonist laments that only he "to all men just must be/And neither gods nor men be just to" him in one speech and declares that he has no eyes, "but fountains fraught with tears" in a soliloquy which precedes the arrival of a letter written in blood from the beloved of his deceased son. A page mockingly points at a box to encourage a character to damn himself and ensure his hanging, as Pendrigano thinks it contains a pardon, after he killed Serberine. This play's protagonist bites out his tongue after performing a play in which a Bashaw slays Erasto and Perseda kills Soliman as part of a plot to kill the sons of the Duke of Castile and the Viceroy of Portugal. For 10 points, Don Andrea and Revenge watch as Lorenzo and Balthasar are killed to avenge Horatio's murder by Bel-imperia and Hieronimo in what tragedy by Thomas Kyd? 
The Spanish Tragedy, or Hieronimo Is Mad Again [or The Spanish Tragedie, Containing the Lamentable End of Don Horatio and Bel-imperia with the Pittifull Death of Olde Hieronimo] 
9

138927-)
In one play by this author, Cornelio tricks a character into making a fool of himself in playing the theorbo badly after the latter declares "never shun it to be call'd a gull" while teasing him about adultery. Later in that play by this author, Gostanzo thinks that he is only pretending to forgive his son for wedding without consent as a trick on Marc Antonio, when he is being tricked into blessing Valerio's marriage. In another play by this author of All Fools, a character repeats the line "Do anything, but killing of the King" after promising to give an honest assessment of the title character. The title character of that play by this author strikes Maffe when the latter tries to give him only 100 of the 1000 crowns given to him by Monsieur; that title character fails to heed warnings from the demon Behemoth and a friar's ghost about death from Montsurry if he replies to his lover's letter. For 10 points, name this author of Bussy D'Ambois, who is better known for his translations of Homer as memorialized in a Keats ode. 
George Chapman 
9

138928-)
This man takes "a gose nek in his hande" to ride over water "a hundred wynter" deep and hits a wren between the horns with a club as the subject of Yngnoraunce's nonsense ballad in John Rastell's The Four Elements. One play about this man is interrupted several times by the conversations of John Eltham and John Skelton. This man recruits the title character after a brief fight in a wheat field in the anonymous play George-a-Green, and he is often joined by the clownish miller's son Much. In one play named for this character, he is poisoned to death by Sir Doncaster and the Prior of York, his uncle. Anthony Munday wrote on this man as the exiled noble Robert, Earl of Huntington in a pair of plays, who rescues Scathlocke and Scarlet from hanging and forgives Warman, who was made Sheriff, and the usurper who outlawed him, Prince John. For 10 points, name this outlaw and lover of Maid Marian. 
Robin Hood 
9

138929-)
One character in this play, who goes hungry after a cat drinks his milk and a vagrant steals his bacon, chases a cat around the attic trying to blow out his eyes for fear that they will start a fire. One character in this work tells Hodge that "between Chat, and the Rat, and the cat" the title object "is hid", after lying to Hodge about conjuring a devil. One character in this play uses threats of stolen chickens to cause another to wound the curate Dr. Rat, and he had earlier stirred up a fight between that woman, Dame Chat, and the title character, after he lied to Chat, telling her that she was accused of stealing a rooster. The title object is found after Diccon, ordered to swear an oath on Hodge's butt, slaps it, revealing that it had never left the pants the title character had been repairing. For 10 points, name this Tudor comedy about a lost sewing implement. 
Gammer Gurton's Needle 
9

138930-)
While ripping a letter brought by Berkeley, this play's title character prays "so may his limbs be torn" of his chief foe. Two characters forcibly shave the title character with puddle water, and keep him in knee-deep excrement-filled water for 10 days. One character in this play plans to hide his guilt for murder behind a missing comma in his order "occidere nolite timere bonum est", which fact Matrevis notes when given the letter by Lightborn. Act I of this play sees a certain "night-grown mushroom" scorns to aid three poor men, and Act IV ends with a "gloomy fellow" with a "Welsh hook" pointing out the title king, Baldock and Spenser to Leicester for arrest. After Pembroke promises to escort the King's lover to him before the former's death, Warwick sneaks in and slays Gaveston, whose preferment over the queen drives Isabella to side with Mortimer against her husband in this play. For 10 points, A red-hot spit is driven up the anus of the title king as punishment for his homosexuality in what play by Christopher Marlowe? 
The Troublesome Raigne and Lamentable Death of Edward the Second, King of England, with the Tragical Fall of Proud Mortimer  
9

138931-)
In a song from one play by this author, the singers declare that they "may justly now accuse" Fame and Envy of detraction from the praise of she "sitting like a goddess bright", who is the object of their journey. In another play by this author, a character sings "'tis only daylight that makes sin" after asking "what hath night to do with sleep?". One character in that play became immortal through a bath taken in Nereus's Hall, after drowning in a river. In that play by this author of Arcades, two brothers are given the magical plant haemony by a spirit in the guise of the shepherd Thyrsis. The title character, son of Bacchus and Circe, possesses a liquor capable to turning human's heads into those of various beasts, but the Lady is rescued by her two brothers with the help of the nymph Sabrina in "A Masque Presented at Ludlow Castle, 1634" by this author. For 10 points, name this poet, author of Comus, as well as Paradise Lost. 
John Milton 
9

138932-)
Brundich, described as the "most famous phesycyan/ that ever sawe uryn" is beaten away by this play's villains, after he offers to reattach an arm, which had been nailed to a wall. A speech given by a vexillator just before the opening of this play establishes its performance in a town north of Bury St. Edmund on a Monday, though the play itself is set in the fictional city of Heraclea in Aragon. Astorius steals the title object, which he sells to a merchant for 100 pounds to this play's chief villain, a follower of Machomet and leader of a group that includes Jason, Jasdon, Masphat, and Malchus. A cauldron of boiling oil fills with blood and an oven explodes revealing an image of Christ, who heals Jonathas's arm, after attempts to destroy the title object, which bled through five dagger wounds. For 10 points, name this miracle play, in which a group of Jews try to test the truth of transubstantiation. 
Croxton Play of the Sacrament [prompt on partial answers; accept "The Play of the Conversyon of Ser Jonathas the Jewe by Myracle of the Blyssed Sacrament" before "Jonathas" is named]
9

138933-)
One character in this play rebukingly asks another if he "thinke to roote [him] selfe in dead mens graves" like a yew tree, echoing a dream another character relates in which the branch of a yew kills two people trying to uproot it. Another character in this play, Marcello, reminds his mother of his infant brother breaking a crucifix just before that brother stabs him in the back. In a parody of the rite of extreme unction, two characters dressed as Capuchin monks  mock a dying man before strangling him. Monticelso, fresh from his election as Pope, is drawn into a conspiracy to avenge his nephew's murder by Lodovico, who couches the information as a confession. A Conjurer shows this play's ostensible title character a pair of visions in the form of dumbshows in Act II, Scene 2 of this play, which depict the murder of Camillo by Flamineo and the poisoning of Isabella. For 10 points, relating the murderous and adulterous affair of the Duke of Bracciano and Vittoria Corombona, this is what revenge tragedy by John Webster? 
The White Devil, or the Tragedy of Paolo Giordano Ursini, the Duke of Brachiano, with the Life and Death of Vittoria Corombona, the Famous Venetian Curtizan [accept Vittoria Corombona before she is named] 
9

138934-)
One character with this name tells a usurer that he will go to hell, but the "devils will never torment [him], they'll take [him] for one o' their own race" because of his cuckold's horns; that character with this name declares that he is deaf and "stopped [his] ears with shoemakers' wax" so as to ignore the pleas of Mildred, Gertrude, and his wife. One character with this name declares a man is "bawd to a bell-wether" and betrays "a twelve-month lamb to a crooked-pated, old, cuckoldy ram", while insulting Corin. One character with this name is a goldsmith, marries one daughter to the upright Golding, and eventually forgives his profligate apprentice Quicksilver and son-in-law Sir Petronel for their abortive and felonious voyage to Virginia. Another character with this name threatens William away from his beloved, before Hymen weds that clown of Duke Frederick and Audrey along with Orlando and Rosalind in a Shakespeare comedy. For 10 points, give this shared name of characters in Eastward Ho! and As You Like It!. 
Touchstone [prompt on "William", but accept "William Touchstone"] 
9

139181-)
The family of Arabella Donn does this in  Jude the Obscure  before Jude can seek anannulment, thus rendering him unable to remarry. This action (^)  was also taken before he became an outlaw by the antagonist of the  Boscombe Valley Mystery.  That action resulted in several mannerisms including his use of the signal (+)  "cooee" and his archrival's attempt to say a place name ending in "a rat". Several Dickensian characters do this, including the Micawber family and Abel (*) Magwitch, who subsequently gets rich in the sheep business. For ten points, name this action undertaken by hundreds of thousands of Britons, a journey whose end result was often towns such as Kalgoorlie, Perth, and Ballarat.
emigrating  to  Australia  (prompt on "leaving the country", etc.)
7

139195-)
One monarch of this name had an aide who had an unfortunate habit of giving powerful earlsnicknames like "burst-belly", "the churl", and "whoreson". That man's (^)  reign was chronicled in the despairing poem "The Simony", and he was criticized for liking to dig holes too much as a child. Another king of this name(+)  is the only English king to be canonized, and the most famous King of this name acquired his nickname by building up muscular legs with lots of riding. That man was nicknamed (*)  "Longshanks". His successor allegedly had an affair with Piers Gaveston. For ten points, name this English king name shared by eight kings, one of whom abdicated after marrying Wallis Simpson.
Edward
7

139198-)
One of these people wrote a memoir in which he discusses his love of gardens and addiction to cannabis edibles. Another man who (^)  lost a succession war to become one of these people translated religious texts in  The Confluence of the Two Oceans . That man's struggle for the throne was dramatized in a John Dryden play. That play (+)  sees the title character triumph over Morat and Arimant. The aforementioned translator was Dara Shikoh, who appears in (*)   Aureng-zebe.  The                         Baburnama was written by the inaugural holder of, for ten points, what position of power on the Indian subcontinent held by the builder of the Taj Mahal, among others?
Mughal Emperor
7

139903-)
One scene in this work is set at a sanitarium for rich hypochondriacs run by Doctor Downward, where the titular character is in danger of being gassed to death. The titular character is a friend of the priest Decimus Brock and battles the nefarious Cuban villain Manuel and Manuel's ex-wife Lydia Gwilt. FTP, name this work about cousins with the same name, although one uses the alias "Ozias Midwinter," a serialized, semi-epistolary novel by Wilkie Collins.
Armadale
9

139905-)
A 1980 film is entitled [This Author] in Manhattan and details the attempts of rival stage companies to put on this author's dramatic adaptation of Sir Charles Grandison. This author's name was appended to a 1998 comedy film also known as Mafia! A 2004 work by Karen Joy Fowler features Bernadette and Prudie, members of a book club for this author, who had an affair with Tom Lefroy in a movie starring Anne Hathaway. FTP, name this author of Emma.
Jane Austen
9

139906-)
One character in this work appeared in a series of historical novels by George MacDonald Fraser, which were set during various English wars abroad. Besides that character, the odious Flashman, supporting characters include both the dishonest Harry East and the moral George Arthur. The story begins with the titular character arriving at Rugby, where he is continually bullied. FTP, name this moralistic work by Thomas Hughes about the titular young character's education.
Tom Brown's School Days
9

139911-)
This work is referenced in T.S. Eliot's "Lines to a Yorkshire Terrier" in the line about the arrival of undertakers. George Bernard Shaw wrote a 1937 play "refinishing" this play, while other lines from this work appear throughout Mrs. Dalloway, as Clarissa muses on the lines "Fear no more the heat o' the sun, nor the furious winter's rages." Featuring the lovers Posthumus and Imogen, FTP, name this Shakespeare work about an ancient king of Britain.
Cymbeline
9

139921-)
At one point in this story, a character decides to "fire de big gun," which destroys an abandoned store and a sugar mill. The main protagonist is Holroyd, who accompanies Captain Gerilleau on the gunboat Benjamin Constant. The unnamed narrator concludes that the titular characters will discover Europe in 1950 or 1960. Noted for their use of poison, the titular characters seek to drive all humans out of South America. FTP, name this story by H.G. Wells about killer insects.
Empire  of the Ants
9

139926-)
One character in this work makes such wonderful corn muffins that she wins the affections of the main protagonist, prompting another character to ruefully sing "I Was the Most Beautiful Blossom." A major conflict near the end of this work revolves around a French ambassador demanding that a baby be handed over to his country. Featuring the inept Alexander Throttlebottom, FTP, name this Gershwin musical about President John Wintergreen.
The Comedians
9

139929-)
One scene in this work features an owl hooting five times, which is a prophecy for the number of days a certain character has left to live. The protagonist is later informed by his wife that an astrological prophecy predicts death unless he divorces. After winning the battle of Brentwood Hill, the protagonist achieves the titular honor before he is finally killed by his wife, Agrippinilla. FTP, name this Robert Graves work, the second work about a certain Roman emperor. 
Claudius the God (do not accept I, Claudius)
9

139932-)
This author wrote a work about Tony Gillingham's investigation of the locked-room murder of Robert Ablett. Raymond Chandler, in "The Simple Art of Murder," called that work by this author "agreeable" and "amusing," but broke down seven illogical flaws with this author's work. Besides The Red House Mystery, this author wrote a series of nursery rhymes called Now We Are Six and When We Were Very Young. FTP, name this creator of honey-addicted Winnie the Pooh
A.A. Milne (accept The Red House Mystery until mentioned)
9

139933-)
A check for a thousand pounds in this work is determined to be worthless when it is revealed the signer inadvertently wrote his name as "Charlie Chaplin." Another character causes a stir when she leaves 10 Downing Street in a grass skirt, causing Mr. Outrage to become the new Prime Minister. Featuring Agatha Runcible, who dies in an auto race, FTP, name this Evelyn Waugh novel about the wasteful post WWI generation dubbed the "Bright Young People."
Vile Bodies
9

139943-)
He wrote a description of Judaism in his non-fiction This is My God. In one of this man's works, a coal trucker becomes an author and another describes the fictional island of Amerigo. Besides Youngblood Hawke and Don't Stop the Carnival, he wrote a work about a girl who attends Hunter College and eventually marries Milton Schwartz and a work about Navy man Pug Henry. FTP, name this NAQT favorite author, who wrote Marjorie Morningstar and The Winds of War.
Herman Wouk
9

139946-)
This man was once cuckolded by Bill Haydon and his final appearance comes when he is chairing the "Fishing Rights Committee" in the book The Secret Pilgrim. This man's wife, Lady Ann Sercombe, gave him a lighter that was stolen by his nemesis, a man known only as Karla. First appearing in Call for the Dead, this man's most notable appearance comes in Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. FTP, name this "Circus" agent, a spy created by John le CarrÃ©.
George Smiley (accept either)
9

139953-)
The titular character wins a prize at school for his Greek oration, and the school claps not because he is eminent "but because he was average." The protagonist's grandfather theorizes that God lives in the sun, while Mr. Ducie teaches the protagonist about sex using beach drawings. Eventually, the protagonist begins a relationship with his gamekeeper, Alec Scudder. FTP, name this E.M. Forster work noted for its explicit depiction of homosexuality.
Maurice
9

139958-)
This character was eventually revealed to have married fashion photographer Hope Fanshaw in a novel completed by Jill Paton Walsh entitled Thrones, Dominations. After serving in the Rifle Brigade as a sergeant in World War I, he settled in Piccadilly where he dabbles in photography. In Busman's Honeymoon, he prepares his master for his marriage to Harriet Vane. FTP, name this Dorothy Sayers creation, the devoted servant of Lord Peter Wimsey.
Mervyn Bunter (accept either)
9

139963-)
One character in this work flies a kite shaped like a hawk to scare the local flora and fauna away and is obsessed with opening a chest that once belonged to Dr. Mesmer. This work also features a black servant named Oolanga, who is dragged to his death in the titular location. Featuring Adam Salton's battle with the nefarious Lady Arabella Marsh, FTP, name this Bram Stoker work in which Lady Arabella is actually an evolved snake-like creature.
The Lair of the White Worm
9

139966-)
One film adaptation of this work features opening narration by Sir Cedric Hardwicke and featured the heroic Dr. Clayton Forrester. Another adaptation of this work sees the slaying of Carl Phillips and the character of Professor Pierson, as played by the director. The villains in this work appeared in the second League of Extraordinary Gentlemen series. FTP, name this work adapted by Steven Spielberg and Orson Welles, a H.G. Wells novel about aliens invading.
The War of the Worlds
9

139967-)
This work was adapted into a Bing Crosby comedy entitled We're Not Dressing. Ending at Loam Hall, where Lady Mary prepares to marry Lord Brocklehurst despite her previous affair with the titular character, this work may be based on Ludwig Fulda's Robinson's Eiland, about a shipwrecked group that falls under the leadership of a secretary. FTP, identify this play whose titular servant takes his name from a famous Scot polymath, a comedy by J.M. Barrie.
The Admirable Crichton
9

139974-)
This man taught himself Latin and translated the Elegies of Tibullus, which received a scathing review from his friend Tobias Smollett. James Boswell recorded the reaction this man's most famous work received when read, including a memorable passage about rat damage. This man based that work off of his experiences at St. Christopher, and it is noted for his section "On the Genius of Africa" about slavery. FTP, name this author of the poem The Sugar Cane.
James Grainger
9

139976-)
At one point in this work, a midwife reveals three versions of her bill, one for each social class. A 1965 film was entitled The Amorous Adventures of the titular character. The action to this work begins in Newgate prison, where the protagonist's mother "pleads her belly" to avoid execution. The protagonist eventually goes to Virginia and meets a son she conceived with her half-brother. FTP, name this work about an infamous woman by Daniel Defoe.
The Fortunes and Misfortunes of the Famous Moll Flanders
9

139977-)
One sequel to this work features a character that was a dance-hall star who could see the future and was named Jessica Charlotte Driscoll, the protagonist's great-great aunt.  Another sequel to this work concludes with the protagonist successfully defeating invading skinheads. Supporting characters in this work include medic Tommy Adkins, who treats the wounded cowboy Boone. FTP, name this Lynne Reid Banks book about Omri's diminutive toy Iroquois friend. 
The Indian in the Cupboard (accept The Return of the Indian or The Secret of the Indian)
9

139985-)
One character in this work is a young boy paid to throw rocks at another character if he sees that man out after 10:00. Another character is known as "Princess Puffer" and runs an opium den frequented by one of the main characters. The mysterious Dick Datchery arrives near the end of this book, while the prime suspect regarding the titular puzzle is the choirmaster John Jasper. FTP, name this work by Charles Dickens, noted for being unfinished on account of the author's death.
The Mystery of Edwin Drood
9

139992-)
One character in this work is a domesticated orangutan named Joop, while another helped rescue the dog Top from a wild dugong. The wild character Aryton in this work previously appeared in the earlier In Search of the Castaways. The titular location is named after Abraham Lincoln and its most famous denizen is revealed to be the Indian Prince Dakkar. FTP, name this Jules Verne novel set during the Civil War that killed off Captain Nemo.
The Mysterious Island (accept L'lle Mysterieuse)
9

139993-)
In Two Years Before the Mast, Richard Henry Dana said reading this book was like "a perfect feast." The titular character was raised by Dummie Dunnaker and eventually discovers his real father is Squire Brandon. Assuming the identity of Captain Lovett, he lives a double life as a highwayman and a gentleman. FTP, name this work famous for its opening line, "It was a dark and stormy night," an infamous work of purple prose by Edward Bulwer-Lytton.
Paul Clifford 
9

139994-)
This man was Oscar-nominated for writing the screenplay for the naval film The Cruel Sea, and he criticized the Communists by depicting a show trial in Judgment on Deltchev. This man created the Turkish security agent, Colonel Haki, who appeared in such novels as Journey Into Fear, as well as in his best known work. FTP, name this mystery author best known for a work about an author becoming entangled with the criminal Makropoulos, The Mask of Dimitrios.
Eric Ambler
9

140002-)
This literary work was basically adapted into the unfinished film Marilyn Monroe was working on before her death, Something's Got to Give, which retained the titular character's last name but changed his gender. That character goes to a tavern run by Miriam Lane, where he learns of the actions of Philip Ray, but he dies at the end and is unable to reunite with Annie. FTP, name this long Tennyson poem about a sailor whose wife remarries after he is thought dead.
"Enoch Arden" (accept Too Many Husbands until "Miriam Lane")
9

140004-)
Supporting characters in this work include the Greeks Niko Litsas and Ariadne Alexandrou, while it begins with one character being abducted from his home at Quarterdeck. Written under the alias "Robert Markham," this novel's plot revolves around the attempted sabotage of a Middle East dÃ©tente conference perpetrated by the titular villain. FTP, name this work of Kingsley Amis, a James Bond novel about a sinister Chinese agent.
Colonel Sun
9

140020-)
Marty Feldman once starred in a comedy that claimed to be The Last Remake of this novel. The action in this work is motivated by the perceived theft of the valuable gem "Blue Water," and at the end of the novel, John is the only one to make it home after Digby is killed by an irate Arab. Taking place at Fort Zinderneuf and featuring the sadistic Sergeant Lejaune, FTP, name this work by P.C. Wren about three brothers who join the French Foreign Legion.
Beau Geste
9

140027-)
Two poems in this collection use the lines "unpriced" and "undiced" before featuring a final line of "more than Christ." The titular characters are described in the poems "From Fifth Avenue Up," "From Third Avenue Down," and "To a Cabaret Dancer." Ending with a poem about two suicide victims in the morgue and including five drawings by the author, FTP, name this "chapbook" by Djuna Barnes featuring poems and art about the titular females.
The Book of Repulsive Women
9

140028-)
At one point in this work, a character looks at a news item about King Zog, prompting him to think of the biblical King Og and his youth in church. The narrator muses on his childhood in Lower Binfield, and later visits a retired teacher named Porteous, whose mind stopped years ago. Concluding when the narrator realizes the futility of revisiting his past, FTP, name this work about George Bowling set in pre-WWII England, a novel by George Orwell.
Coming Up for Air
9

140031-)
This character claims that something leads him forth even though he has "no will to wander forth of doors." At one point, he responds to a series of questions by saying that he is wisely, a bachelor. Claiming to dwell by the Capital, this man's downfall comes when he finally answers the question as to his name. FTP, name this character who is torn to pieces by an angry crowd, even though he is merely a poet, because he shares his name with a conspirator in Julius Caesar.
Cinna the Poet
9

140043-)
his man shares his surname with a John Dickson Carr character who appeared in novels like The Three Coffins. A principle named after this man was cited to explain the failures of William Howard Taft and Richard Nixon. This man himself was the Dean of Christ Church after the English Restoration. FTP, name this man about whom a Tom Brown poem claims "I do not love thee, the reason why I cannot tell," whose principle explains irrational dislike for certain people.
Dr. John Fell 
9

140056-)
This man threatened legal action against Graham Greene after believing he was parodied in Greene's Stamboul Train.  This author wrote the horror comedy Benighted and a play about Robert and Freda' s tragic dinner party Dangerous Corner. In one of his works, the Birlings are interrogated by the titular character about a suicide that has not yet occurred. FTP, name this author who frequently experimented with time in works like An Inspector Calls.
J.B. Priestley
9

140059-)
The protagonist notes that the titular character rewards the profligate with "rich charity," although all who know him end up cursed. At one point in this work, the protagonist is in Greece and romances Ianthe, and shortly after, the titular character is shot by bandits and makes the protagonist promise to keep his death a secret. Ending when the titular character kills Aubrey's sister, FTP, name this story about the sinister Lord Ruthven, a horror story by John Polidori.
The Vampyre
9

140067-)
A 1969 musical adaptation of this work saw one character die during a V-2 bombing and featured the song "You and I," sung by Petula Clark. At one point in this work, the titular character makes fun of the name and ancestry of "Isaacstein." Based on a man named W.H. Balgarnie, the titular character ends this work by noting he had "thousands" of children, "all boys." FTP, name this work about Brookfield's best-loved teacher by James Hilton.
Goodbye, Mr. Chips
9

140068-)
In The Story of My Life, Helen Keller says that this work was the first book of consequence she read understandingly and ascribes her interest in books to this work. Donald Duck's middle name is a reference to this work, which tells the story of Cedric Errol, who helps to teach social justice to his grandfather, the Earl of Dorincourt. FTP, name this children's novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett, whose titular character set a fashion trend for formal children's wear.
Little Lord Fauntleroy
9

140071-)
Two characters in this work are called "The Stars and Stripes" because "they were always getting swished." The titular character uses such pseudonyms as "Reckless Rupert" and "Jonas the Graveless," and in one scene, another character uses Pinkerton's Champion Stain Remover to clean up a bloodstain.  Ultimately, peace is obtained with the help of Virginia Otis. FTP, name this story about a specter named Sir Simon, a work by Oscar Wilde. 
The Canterville Ghost
9

140074-)
A major inspiration for this work was Joe Orlando, although it was primarily put together by Walt Feinberg and Max Shea. The protagonist is obsessed with arriving in Davidstown and upon arriving, he is attacked by and promptly kills two horseback riders before eventually unwittingly attacking his wife. Telling the story of a mariner fleeing the titular vessel, FTP, name this work read by Bernie in the universe of Alan Moore's graphic novel Watchmen.
Tales of the Black Freighter (accept Marooned)
9

140084-)
One character in this work claims to be the grandson of William Grenfel, an old man who used to operate Bailey Farm. At one point, a character dreams that the titular entity is singing and then bites her on the wrist. Ending with the young soldier taking March to Canada after he kills Banford with a falling tree, FTP, name this D.H. Lawrence novella with lesbian overtones, the story of two women running a farm and the titular animal which steals their chickens.
The Fox
9

140093-)
A 1961 Rat Pack film adapts this work in the old West and features Sammy Davis Jr. as Jonah. This work features the threat to "put some juldee in it," and the narrator ends the work by describing a hell of "double drill and no canteen" where the titular character will be "givin' drink to poor damned souls." FTP, name this poem about a loyal Indian water carrier who is a "better man" than the narrator, a work found in Barrack-Room Ballads by Rudyard Kipling.
"Gunga Din"
9

140102-)
The comic Hellblazer presented James Constantine as the inspiration for this character, saying his most famous action was performed to prevent a plot by angels. In Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency, Dirk goes back in time to become this character. Theorized by Thomas de Quincey to be Dr. P. Aaron Potter, FTP, identify this mysterious literary figure, best known for interrupting Samuel Taylor Coleridge and preventing the finishing of the poem "Kubla Khan."
Person from Porlock (accept Man from Porlock, anything to indicate it's a dude from Porlock)
9

140106-)
In one of this man's works, the titular character acquires the elixir of immortality and the Philosopher's Stone, while another work is subtitled the New Man of Feeling and critiques Rousseau's views of education. Besides St. Leon and Fleetwood, he wrote a novel about Ferdinando Falkland's attempts to ruin the life of his personal secretary. FTP, name this author of Caleb Williams, a promoter of utilitarianism, who is also the father of Mary Shelley.
William Godwin
9

140107-)
The author of this work was influenced by a work he had previously translated, a novel about an infant "saved" from Senegal and entitled Ourika. This work's titular character frequently appears at the Cobb and is also known as "Tragedy." The film adaptation of this work used the framing story of a film-within-a-film, and this novel famously ends with three potential endings. FTP, name this work about the disgraced Sarah Woodruff, a postmodern romance by John Fowles.
The French Lieutenant's Woman
9

140109-)
The protagonist of this work is punished at one point by being forced to work in the bakery of Nicodemus Frapp. Another character lives at such locales as Lady Grove and Crest Hill, due to the profits made from his company Domestic Utilities. The protagonist eventually becomes a battleship designer after previously stealing radioactive quap from Africa. FTP, name this H.G. Wells work about George and Edward Ponderevo's promotion of the titular patent medicine.
Tono-Bungay
9

140112-)
A 1935 film version of this work starred future "Pink Lady" Helen Gahagan as the titular character. This work features Horace Holly and Leo Vincey, who, after following the instructions off the Sherd of Amenartas, eventually discover a pillar of fire. One character in this work believes Vincey to be the reincarnation of her lover Kallikrates. FTP, name this work which introduced the immortal woman Ayesha, a serialized novel by H. Rider Haggard.
She: A History of Adventure
9

140128-)
A 1973 book by Philip Jose Farmer about this man's "other log" posits that he is actually part of the alien Eridani race. This character's great-grandson appears in a 1963 Three Stooges film, while a 2004 film presents this man as the rival of Baron Kelvin.  Preferring his shaving water at 86 degrees Fahrenheit, he is thought to be a bank robber by Detective Fix. FTP, name this member of the Reform Club, the protagonist of Jules Verne's Around the World in Eighty Days.
Phileas Fogg (accept either, also accept either form of Phineas Fogg)
9

140130-)
A 1965 film adaptation of this work was billed as "the motion picture with something to offend everyone!" The Doctor Who serial "Revelation of the Daleks" is based on this work as well, which features such characters as cosmetician Aimee Thanatogenos and the sinister Mr. Joyboy. FTP, name this work which revolves around both the Hollywood film industry and the Los Angeles mortuary company Whispering Glades, a short novel by Evelyn Waugh.
The Loved One
9

140132-)
One character in this book uses his Dickens knowledge to predict the non-arrival of a Mr. Harris. Another character is revealed to have the real name of Cassetti, while another hides her real name of Linda Arden. Minor characters include the missionary Greta Ohlsson and the Hungarian Count Andrenyi. One proposed solution involves a stranger as the killer, while the correct one involves twelve killers. FTP, name this Agatha Christie work about death on the titular transport.
Murder on the Orient Express
9

140146-)
At the end of Alan Moore's graphic novel The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen, this character becomes the leader of British intelligence. This character helped found the Diogenes Club and is described as "heavily built and massive" despite possessing "no ambition and no energy."  Said to be "the most indispensable man in the country," he first appears in The Greek Interpreter and later shows up in The Bruce-Partington Plans. FTP, name this older brother of Sherlock Holmes.
Mycroft Holmes (prompt on Holmes, prompt on M)
9

140163-)
In one scene in this work, a talking parrot is used to convince a family that their house is haunted, while another character believes the ghost of Magnus is alive at the end of this work. That character operates "the Chokey" and laments that a riding crop can no longer be used as an instrument of punishment. Ending with the titular character living with Miss Honey and the defeat of Miss Trunchbull, FTP, name this Roald Dahl work about a psychokinetic little girl.
Matilda
9

140169-)
Some of this character's colleagues include Dick Foley and Mickey Linehan. In one of his appearances, he visits the town of Personville where he confronts Reno Starkey. Besides The Dain Curse and Red Harvest, he appeared in a 1978 miniseries starring James Coburn, which gave him the name "Hamilton Nash," a reference to his creator. An employee of the "Old Man," FTP, name this fat nameless private eye, a creation of Dashiell Hammett.
The Continental Op (accept Hamilton Nash, either part until mentioned) 
9

140170-)
A character in this play is the unseen Maureen Lyon, whose real name is Mrs. Stanning. Suspicious characters in this work include Mr. Paravicini and the hyperactive Christopher Wren, while this play's action strongly hinges upon the death of a child while in foster care. Ending with Major Metcalf revealing himself as a policeman and Sergeant Trotter turning out to be the murderer, FTP, name this extremely long-running Agatha Christie mystery play.
The Mousetrap
9

140179-)
A 1914 sequel to this work features an ancestor of the protagonist known as "Diogenes," who is the inspiration for Hals' The Laughing Cavalier. Other novels featuring the titular character include Eldorado and I Will Repay. The villain of this work is Chauvelin, who blackmails Marguerite. Featuring a famous rhyme about Frenchies seeking the titular hero, FTP, name this work by Baroness Orczy about a Englishman who saves lives during the French Revolution.
The Scarlet Pimpernel
9

140181-)
One character in this work is Trigg, a farmer who employs the protagonist and is eventually killed along with his wife. This work ends with the protagonist smoking a cigarette and listening to "the tearing sound of splintering wood." Revolving around Nat Hocken's attempts to protect his family from the titular creatures, FTP, name this Daphne Du Maurier short story that was turned into a famous Hitchcock film set in Bodega Bay and featuring the titular avian attackers.
"The Birds"
9

140187-)
During a tea service in this work, one character grabs bread and butter sandwiches and runs off to feed the swans. That character courts Elaine de Frey, who eventually marries the politician Courtney Youghal. This work ends with the titular character dying in West Africa, while a Van der Meulen painting is also revealed to be a copy. FTP, name this work about Francesca's attempts to marry off her son Comus, the titular youth, a short novel by Saki.
The Unbearable Bassington
9

140188-)
This man wrote a play entitled Cato Street about the famous conspiracy and he wrote a comedic play about two airmen who are sheltered during and after WWII by a German entitled The Hiding Place. His most famous play involves Arthur Goldman, a Jew thought to be a notorious war criminal. Besides The Man in the Glass Booth, he is far better known for acting in movies like From Russia With Love and The Sting. FTP, name this actor who played Quint in Jaws.
Robert Shaw
9

140196-)
The Alfred Hitchcock film Secret Agent is not based on the Conrad work, but rather several chapters within this work. One incident in this work sees the titular character journeying to Italy with "General" Manuel Carmona, alias "the Hairless Mexican," while another incident sees the titular character using an Italian dancer to entrap a traitor. Featuring the chief "R," FTP, name this work starring the narrator of Cakes and Ale, a W. Somerset Maugham novel about a spy.
Ashenden: or the British Agent
9

140202-)
One scene in this work sees the ex-president of Nicaragua dine with Lambert and Barker before eventually killing himself. Another incident sees a young boy take a wooden sword and strike the protagonist. That boy, Adam Wayne, eventually achieves a position where he plots with a toy dealer to prevent modern highways running through the titular location. FTP, name this work about King Auberon Quinn's battle with a rebellious provost, a satire by G.K. Chesterton.
The Napoleon of Notting Hill
9

140744-)
This man is often identified with the silent “English Agent” in one of his works that chronicles the St. Bartholomew’s Day killings, titled The Massacre at Paris. Walter Raleigh wrote a famous reply to a poem by this man which begins, “Come live with me and be my love.” Another work by this playwright begins with the Persian ruler, Mycetes, being overthrown by a Scythian shepherd named Tamburlaine. In another work by this playwright, Barabas betrays both Christian and Muslims to become governor of a Mediterranean island. For 10 points, name this English playwright of The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
Christopher Marlowe
6

140762-)
Description acceptable. This man wrote that he was “long time a child, and still a child, when years / Had painted manhood on my cheek,” a possible reference to his expulsion from Oxford after the dean caught his drunk ass lying in a gutter. A different author observed that this man’s “gentle breathings… Fill up the intersperséd vacancies / And momentary pauses of the thought.” An anecdote about the time this man woke crying from a nightmare, but calmed down upon looking at the moon, is preserved in the poem “The (*) Nightingale.” The speaker of another “conversation poem” predicts that “all seasons shall be sweet to” this man, even if a “secret ministry” transforms “eave-drops” into “silent icicles / Quietly shining to the quiet moon.” In that poem, the only noise in a room where this man slumbers comes from a film fluttering on a grate. For 10 points, name this “dear babe” addressed in Coleridge’s poem “Frost at Midnight.”
Hartley Coleridge [or Samuel Taylor Coleridge’s infant; prompt on Coleridge; accept Coleridge’s baby, son, boy, kid, etc. but obviously don’t accept “Coleridge’s daughter” or related answers; accept “the poet’s” or “his” in place of “Coleridge’s” throughout this answerline]
9

140771-)
A character in this play delivers a monologue imagining himself as an old man being followed and offered sweets by children. In this play’s last scene, a man rescues a set of burning papers, adding them to the case file of a criminal who was executed four seconds before his countdown ended. A character in this play relates how the only boy who was not led out of Hamelin had all five of his right toes severed with a meat cleaver by the Pied Piper. The title character of this play leaves puddles from crying because of his job convincing (*) children to commit suicide to preempt their miserable lives. In this play, really fucked-up stories such as “The Little Green Pig” and “The Writer and the Writer’s Brother” inspire a series of violent murders of children committed by Michal, prompting Tupolski and Ariel to interrogate Michal’s brother, the writer Katurian Katurian Katurian. For 10 points, name this dark drama by Martin McDonagh.
The Pillowman
9

140776-)
15. The speaker describes “my forces raz’d, thy banners rais’d within” in a poem asking this woman “whence doth this new assault arise, a conquer’d, yielden, ransack’d heart to win?” In a troubling poem, the speaker concludes: “For Grammar sayes… That in one speech two Negatives affirm” to rationalize this woman’s repeated rejections. She repeats “No, no, no, no, my dear, let be” in each stanza of the even more rapey “Fourth Song.” Attempting to write love poems to her, the speaker describes (*) “biting my truant pen, beating myself for spite” until his Muse says “Fool… look in thy heart, and write!” Lady Penelope Devereux, who as a child was betrothed to the poet, was the basis for this woman, who is honored by a sequence whose thirty first poem begins with the line: “With how sad steps, Oh Moon, thou climb’st the skies.” For 10 points, name this woman who in a Philip Sidney sequence captivates Astrophil.
Stella
9

140784-)
This author wrote an essay warning against seeking fulfillment in life, since “we purchase the meanest of its secrets at a cost that is monstrous and infinite.” Another essay by this author proclaims the story of George Washington and the cherry tree to be the single most damaging moral tale in all of literature. An essay by this author discusses an article subtitled “A Protest,” which argues that the true aim of art is the telling of “beautiful (*) untrue things.” This author’s book Intentions includes a pair of essays styled as Platonic dialogues between Gilbert and Ernest, and Vivian and Cyril. This author bolded the statement that “All art is quite useless” in the preface to a novel whose protagonist stabs an artwork that ages along with him. For 10 points, name this English author who promoted the doctrine of art for art’s sake in his essays “The Critic as Artist” and “The Decay of Lying,” and in his novel The Picture of Dorian Grey.
Oscar Wilde [or Oscar Fingal O'Flahertie Wills Wilde]
9

140787-)
Mario Praz traced the origin of a passage about one of these physical objects to Giovanni Battista Guarini’s Madrigal 96. In Shakespeare’s Sonnet 116, “rosy lips and cheeks” fall within one of these objects formed by Time’s “bending sickle.” In explicating the “dissociation of sensibility,” T.S. Eliot declared a passage about one of these objects to be more graceful than a similar description of a chessboard in Cowley’s To Destiny. In that passage, a component of this object “leans and hearkens” and “grows (*) erect” as the other part “comes home.” The lines “Thy firmness makes my circle just, / And makes me end where I begun” conclude an extended metaphysical conceit about “stiff twin” ones. For 10 points, in “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning,” John Donne likened souls to a pair of points on what drawing instrument?
a compass
9

140789-)
This author wrote a poem in which the world dissolves into a “mole-colored and bare” landscape, in which the “crack of a rifle” portends the “soft and papery crash / Of a great branch somewhere unseen falling to earth.” He wrote that “no prayers or incense rose up in those hours / Which grew to be years,” in the interval that a man bleeds out after being shot in the stomach, in a poem that compares the legs of a different man to “blistered sticks on which the black sap / Bubbled and burst.” This author included “A Hill” and other poems inspired by his wartime service in (*) Germany in his Pulitzer-winning collection The Hard Hours, which features a poem in which a Pole is forced to bury two Jews alive. This author wrote a poem about a girl who is angry at being “addressed / As a sort of mournful cosmic last resort” despite having “read / Sophocles in a fairly good translation.” For 10 points, name this American poet of “More Light! More Light!,” who parodied Matthew Arnold in his “The Dover Bitch.”
Anthony Hecht
9

140790-)
A poem about a man with this profession posits that “Meteor-moons” and “balls of blaze” appeared after “the earth had done her best… to scale the sky.” A different poem pictures a man with this profession as a “ghostly cricket, creaking where a house was burned,” imploring that his city turn into “dust and ashes.” A man with this profession turns to the “ineffable Name,” who is the “builder and maker… of houses not made with hands,” for consolation when his metaphorical “palace” crumbles, and ends the poem resolving to “try to sleep.” This profession of (*) “Abt Vogler” is shared by the addressee of an octameter poem in rhyming triplets, who asks: “What of soul was left, I wonder, when the kissing had to stop?” in response to a couple making out while asking him to perform during a masked ball in Venice. For 10 points, name this profession of Baldassare Galuppi, whose “toccata” is the subject of a poem by Robert Browning.
composer [or musician; or organist; or pianist]
9

140793-)
In a play, this character boasts that his “philosopher’s brain” can grasp the knowledge of Nature similar to the way a husbandman’s hand grasps a plough. Despite having forged a passport for a Slovene agitator to escape Trieste at the outset of World War I, a modern incarnation of this character is drowned by a Slovene mob in John Berger’s novel G. In an earlier literary appearance, his intentionally ambiguous pairing with Lady Adeline is justified by the author’s comment: “‘Tis strange, but (*) true; for truth is always strange; / Stranger than fiction.” This character is played by the same actor who portrays John Tanner in a third-act dream sequence in Man and Superman, which is set in Hell. He earns the favor of Catherine the Great and beds all the women in a Turkish harem in an unfinished satiric epic in ottava rima. For 10 points, name this easily-seduced libertine who stars in a Byron poem.
Don Juan [or G. before mentioned; or Don Juan Tenorio; or Don Giovanni]
9

140794-)
In a play by this author, an old man travels to his burned-out childhood home, where he watches the ghosts of his parents reenact the consummation of their marriage. At the end of one of his plays, an old woman observes that “The years like great black oxen tread the world… And I am broken by their passing feet,” in a speech in which she begs to join her mistress in heaven. A play by this author of Purgatory features Oona’s song “Who will go drive with (*) Fergus now,” which was set to music by James Joyce. A noblewoman sells her soul to save famine victims in a play by this author, who adapted the conventions of Noh theater to dramatize a myth about Cuchulainn in At the Hawk’s Well. This author premiered his verse drama The Countess Cathleen at the Abbey Theater, which he co-founded with Edward Martyn and Lady Gregory. For 10 points, name this godfather of Irish theater, who also wrote poems such as “The Second Coming.”
W. B. Yeats
9

140802-)
This speech laments that “in spite of the strides of alimentation and defecation,” man “wastes and pines.” To aid actors performing this speech, its author divided it into three sections, the last of which is anchored by the phrase: “the earth abode of stones.” The other characters “protest violently” while listening to this speech, with one finally cutting it short by seizing the speaker’s hat. An independent Australian publishing house established by David Malouf is named (*) “Puncher & Wattmann” in reference to this speech. This speech often features repetitions of syllables within words, producing such delightful phrases as “Acacacacademy of Anthropopopometry” and “quaquaquaqua.” For 10 points, name this monologue that results when an otherwise-silent character from Waiting for Godot is instructed to “Think.”
Lucky’s monologue in Waiting for Godot [or Lucky’s speech]
9

140805-)
This critic argued that McCarthyism was insufficiently opposed by college students in part because they were too busy close reading poems, in a book in which he skewered the privilege of authorial intent advocated in E.D. Hirsch’s Validity in Interpretation. This critic wrote that Shakespeare was simultaneously a political conservative and a faithful chronicler of sexual desire, in his books William Shakespeare and Shakespeare and Society. This critic wrote a book arguing that (*) Heathcliff was a refugee from the Irish potato famine. In his best-known book, this critic profiles structuralism, New Criticism, psychoanalysis, and other schools of criticism while promoting his own belief that texts cannot be stripped from their political and historical contexts. For 10 points, name this author of the survey text Literary Theory: An Introduction, a contemporary Marxist British critic.
Terry Eagleton
9

140806-)
A character unconvincingly states that “it is not words that shake me thus” in a delirious speech in which he thrice involuntarily blurts out the name of this object, as the stage directions specify that he “falls into a trance.” A two-hundred year old sibyl supposedly used sacred silkworms and dye extracted from the hearts of mummified girls to fashion this strawberry-spotted object, which an Egyptian woman pawned off to the title character’s mother, promising that it would guarantee her husband’s (*) faithfulness. After truthfully admitting to picking this object up by chance, Emilia is stabbed to death by her husband. The title character of the play is led to believe that Cassio received this object from a Venetian woman he slept with. For 10 points, name this object belonging to Desdemona, with which Iago successfully convinces Othello of his wife’s infidelity.
Desdemona’s handkerchief
9

140809-)
This object is likened to a gunpowder flask issuing forth “light squibs” at the start of John Donne’s “A Nocturnal upon St. Lucy’s Day.” The title woman of Richard Lovelace’s “To Amarantha” is instructed to “shake [her] head and scatter” her hair as if it were this object. A poem addressed to this object commands it to “call country ants to harvest offices,” “tell court huntsmen that the king will ride,” and “chide / Late (*) school boys and sour prentices,” addressing it both as a “saucy pedantic wretch” and a “busy old fool.” Andrew Marvell’s “To His Coy Mistress” ends with its speaker defiantly proclaiming that “though we cannot make” this object “stand still / Yet we will make him run.” For 10 points, name this object whose appearance is lamented by the speaker of many aubades, such as a John Donne poem in which it is “Rising.”
the sun
9

140813-)
When he is trying to move stealthily, one of this author’s characters muffles his knees, which are repeatedly said to crack like pistol shots. A character aims to get revenge on the scientists who killed all the animals in his zoo with a death-ray, in a novel whose quality is thought to have been affected by this author’s advanced stage of Parkinson’s. In the middle novel of a trilogy by this author, a torrential downpour transforms the setting into an archipelago navigable only by boat. A character goes insane and imagines himself to be a Death (*) Owl, after his beloved library is torched by his twin sisters Cora and Clarice in the climactic scene of a novel by this author. The Machiavellian kitchen boy Steerpike schemes to take control of a decaying castle ruled by Lord Sepulcrave in a novel by this author. For 10 points, name this English author of Titus Groan, the first entry in the Gormenghast series of gothic fantasy novels.
Mervyn Peake
9

140814-)
This poem repeats an image from its author’s “First Caprice in North Cambridge” by mentioning the sound of “sparrows in the gutters,” which provoke “such a vision of the street / As the street hardly understands.” Citing “short square fingers stuffing pipes” and “eyes / Assured of certain certainties,” the speaker of this poem admits that “I am moved by fancies that are curled / Around these images, and cling: / The notion of some infinitely gentle / Infinitely suffering thing.” This third poem in (*) Prufrock and Other Observations cyclically ends by observing that “the worlds revolve like ancient women / Gathering fuel in vacant lots.” This poem is initially set at “six o’clock,” when “the winter evening settles down / With smell of steaks in passageways.” For 10 points, name this poem by T.S. Eliot titled for introductory pieces of music.
“Preludes”
9

140821-)
This author wrote a poem predicting that “the homeless planet at length will be wheel’d thro’ the silence of space / Motherless evermore of an ever-vanishing race.” Philosophers of science often quote his lyric telling a flower that, “if I could understand / What you are, root and all, and all in all, / I should know what God and man is.” This poet’s impressions taking the train from Liverpool to Manchester for the first time inspired his lines “Forward, forward let us range, / Let the (*) great world spin for ever down the ringing grooves of change.” The uniformitarianism advocated by Charles Lyell influenced a fifteen-line sonnet by this author about a creature who “hath lain for ages and will lie / Battening upon huge seaworms in his sleep / Until the latter fire shall heat the deep.” For 10 points, name this author who poetically summarized the theories of Darwin as “nature, red in tooth and claw” in his poem In Memoriam A.H.H.
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
9

140827-)
A character in this play is spared from having his eyes put out, by pointing out that the fire refuses to grow hot enough to heat the iron. One of this play’s characters mopes that “life is as tedious as a twice-told tale / Vexing the dull ear of a drowsy man,” after a storm wipes out his entire fleet. A character in this play inexplicably decides to escape a castle by leaping to his death from its wall. This play ends with a character declaring that, so long as it is unified, England “never shall, / Lie at the proud foot of a conqueror,” shortly after its title character dies from being (*) poisoned by a monk. The title character of this play orders a second coronation, prompting Salisbury to declare that “to gild refined gold, to paint the lily” is “wasteful and ridiculous excess.” This play opens with an ambassador from France demanding that its title character abdicate in favor of his nephew Arthur, and Eleanor recognizing the Bastard as the son of Richard the Lionhearted. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play starring a weak king.
The Life and Death of King John
9

140834-)
This author wrote an oft-excerpted passage in which he is conscripted into a rowdy game of bicycle polo while wandering the lawn of his host’s mansion. In another book, this author described being stiffed by a family of circus performers when he went from door to door in Vienna sketching portraits for two shillings apiece. Artemis Cooper’s biography of this author relates how he led (*) commando forces to kidnap Heinrich Kreipe, the leader of Nazi forces in occupied Crete. This author described his journey from the Mária Valéria bridge to the Iron Gate of the Danube in Between the Woods and the Water, picking up where his best-known book had left off. For 10 points, name this British travel writer, who chronicled his walk from Holland to Constantinople on foot in A Time of Gifts.
Patrick Leigh Fermor
9

140835-)
The speaker points this woman to architectural features of houses “made up of whitethorn neatly interwove, / As if here were those cooler shades of love.” This woman is told to “Take no care / For jewels for your gown or hair,” as “the leaves will strew / Gems in abundance upon you.” The speaker notes that when he or this woman “are made / A fable, song, or fleeting shade, / All love, all liking, all delight / Lies drowned with us in endless night.” The speaker of the poem laments that “Each flower has wept and bowed toward the east / Above an hour since, yet you not (*) dressed,” to elaborate on his opening plea for this woman to “Get up! get up for shame!” This woman is asked to perform the title action of the poem with the speaker “while time serves, and we are but decaying.” For 10 points, name this woman who, in a poem by Robert Herrick, is “Going A-Maying.”
Corinna
9

140837-)
In this play, a girl who thinks she is telekinetic licks menstrual blood off Kit’s finger and says now she’s a cannibal and might turn into a vampire. In an interview in this play, the “coffee coffee coffee”-loving Nell says there are a half dozen openings in computer sales at Prestel. Joyce says she wouldn’t have miscarried if she wasn’t taking care of the special needs Angie, the daughter of this play’s protagonist who gave her up to drive across America in a fast car. In this play, Joan asks “have we all got (*) dead lovers?” after Isabella describes a Rocky Mountain trapper named Jim Nugent shooting himself in the head and Nijo describes being the Emperor’s concubine. In the first act of this play, the protagonist hosts a dinner party with Lady Nijo, Dull Gret, Isabella Bird, Patient Griselda, and Pope Joan. For 10 points, name this play about Marlene, the managing director of an employment agency, written by Caryl Churchill.
Top Girls
9

140844-)
While editing its author’s collected works, W.B. Yeats cut all but the first four lines of a poem titled for this quality; the outtakes, which he retitled “Proverbs,” observe that “Some are born to sweet delight / Some are born to endless night.” The poem “Spring” from a collection titled for this quality is built from three-syllable lines starting with “Sound the flute! / Now it’s mute.” This adjective describes the faces and the hands of children walking “two and two, in red, and blue, and green” in a poem about a procession to St. Paul’s Cathedral. The lines: “To see a (*) world in a grain of sand / And heaven in a wild flower, / Hold infinity in the palm of your hand, / And eternity in an hour,” open a poem titled for the “Auguries” of this quality. The first three poems in a collection titled for this quality are “The Shepherd,” “The Echoing Green,” and a poem whose speaker asks of its subject, “Dost thou know who made thee?” For 10 points, “The Lamb” appears in a set of William Blake “songs” expressing what quality?
innocence [accept word forms, such as innocent]
9

140846-)
When confronted with the possibility that “beyond the grave there may be Hell,” a character in this novel replies: “Oh, balls.” A character in this novel reunites with his lover while covered head to toe in practice bandages from an ambulance class. The protagonist of this novel first learns about sex during a school holiday, from diagrams that his teacher Mr. Ducie draws on the beach. In this novel, which was written in 1913 but posthumously published in 1971, a character flirts with its protagonist’s sister (*) Ada after returning from a vacation in Greece with a newfound lust for women. The title character of this novel begins a relationship with the gamekeeper Alec Scudder after suffering a painful breakup from his Cambridge classmate Clive Durham. For 10 points, name this early fictional examination of homosexuality, a novel by E.M. Forster.
Maurice
9

140848-)
A character in this novel is reminded of a verse from the Smiths song “There Is a Light That Never Goes Out” when he fails to put his arm around a woman. This novel opens in a movie theater, where the narrator is unable to watch Jean-Claude van Damme beat up a guy, because his friend begs to be taken to “Mother Superior.” A character in this novel tries and fails to win his girlfriend back by getting her a kitten, so he lets the kitten (*) pee and shit all over his apartment, contracting the toxoplasmosis that eventually kills him. The protagonist of this novel makes off with an athletic bag containing the proceeds from the one final drug deal that the Skag Boys rope him into after he goes clean. For 10 points, name this episodic novel, largely written in the Scots dialect and following “Sick Boy,” Mark Renton, and other heroin addicts, written by Irvine Welsh.
Trainspotting
9

140849-)
In a story by this author, a man and his wife go to a wooden hut to watch adult films, one of which ends up being a porno that he had starred in thirty years earlier. Mrs. Salmon testifies seeing the fat man Mr. Adams kill Mrs. Parker, but then spots his identical twin brother in the courtroom, and later sees one of the twins get run over by a bus, in his story “The Case for the Defence.” The anxiety-ridden nine-year old Francis Morton dies from shock when his twin brother Peter grasps his hand during a game of (*) hide and seek in the dark, in this author’s oft-anthologized story “The End of the Party.” He wrote a story in which the Wormsley Common Gang locks Old Misery in an outhouse while they take sledgehammers to his two-hundred year old residence. For 10 points, “The Destructors” and the screenplay to The Third Man are among the shorter works of what incredibly Catholic English novelist?
Graham Greene [or Henry Graham Greene]
9

140853-)
This essay notes that at the age of thirty, “the great mass of human beings… almost abandon the sense of being individuals at all.” This essay quotes its author’s poem lamenting that “I wasn’t born for an age like this; / Was Smith? Was Jones? Were you?” This essay observes that performing the title action involves a constant struggle to “efface one’s own personality,” just before declaring that “Good prose is like a windowpane.” The author of this essay notes that he does not sit down and declare ‘I am going to produce a (*) work of art’ when is about to perform the title action, but rather because “there is some lie I want to expose,” and lists “sheer egoism,” “aesthetic enthusiasm,” “historical impulse” and “political purpose” as his four great motives for performing it. Its author defends his inclusion of a long chapter defending Trotskyists falsely accused of collaborating with Franco in his book Homage to Catalonia. For 10 points, name this essay in which George Orwell lays out the reasons he performs his craft.
“Why I Write”
9

140854-)
This poem observes that we, “in mad trance, strike with our spirit’s knife / Invulnerable nothings.” This poem scandalized religious audiences with a stanza in which “The Stranger,” a stand-in for the poet, “Made bare his branded and ensanguined brow, / Which was like Cain’s or Christ’s.” The speaker of this poem asks that the “curse of Cain / Light on his head who pierced thy innocent breast,” a reference to the anonymous critic who had skewered its subject in the Quarterly Review. This poem offers a “Fond wretch” a chance either to “come forth… and know thyself and him aright,” or to “go ... to (*) Rome - at once the Paradise, / The grave, the city, and the wilderness.” The speaker of this poem commands: “Most musical of mourners, weep again!” and asks the muse Urania to “Lament anew.” Its fifty-fifth and final stanza observes that the soul of its subject, “like a star, / Beacons from the abode where the eternal are.” For 10 points, name this pastoral elegy for John Keats, written by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
“Adonais” [or, if you insist on being That Guy, “Adonaïs: An Elegy on the Death of John Keats, Author of Endymion, Hyperion, etc.”]
9

140855-)
In reference to this character’s downfall, the chorus laments that “Cut is the branch that might have grown full straight, / And burned is Apollo’s laurel bough.” This character beseeches his soul to be “chang’d into little water-drops, / And fall into the ocean, ne’er be found!” at the end of a soliloquy twice interrupted by clock chimes, in which he reflects upon having “but one bare hour to live.” This character’s leg is pulled straight off by a man whom he sold a horse that turns into straw when ridden through water. The inscription (*) Homo, fuge appears on this character’s arm when his blood congeals and has to be warmed by fire. This character snatches Pope Adrian’s food while invisible, amuses Charles V by placing horns on the head of Alexander the Great, and asks: “was this the face that launched a thousand ships” after conjuring Helen of Troy. For 10 points, name this character whose “Tragical History” unfolds after he sells his soul to Mephistopheles, in a play by Christopher Marlowe.
Doctor Faustus [do not accept or prompt on “Faust”]
9

140857-)
This character relates how “an archer who draws a deadly bow” can strike a man’s heart while his soul’s sentry is asleep, in an address that he delivers while examining a relic illustrating “how war first came into this world.” He points a man toward a “frost-stiffened wood” overlooking a lake where at night, the water burns. This character warns a man against being prideful, as one day, he will be killed by “sudden fire or a surge of water / or jabbing blade or javelin from the air / or repellent age,” in a passage often referred to as his (*) “sermon.” Another character advises him to “Let whoever can / win glory before death,” when this man excessively mourns the death of his advisor Aeschere. Prior to the narrative, this character had sent treasure to the Wulfings to prevent them from retaliating against Ecgtheow. This descendent of Scyld Scaefing is gifted the decapitated head of a monster descended from Cain. For 10 points, name this king of the Danes, whose mead hall of Heorot is often attacked by Grendel in Beowulf.
Hrothgar
9

140858-)
One of these documents tells of how its author briefly strove to be a poet so that he “might obtain a niche in the temple where the names of Homer and Shakespeare had been consecrated” after becoming acquainted with them in the library of his Uncle Thomas. The last of these documents records the confession: “I, the miserable and the abandoned, am an abortion, to be spurned, and kicked, and trampled on.” The first of these documents mentions a “country of eternal light,” where its author might find the force that moves (*) compass needles. The last of the four of these documents before the start of the narrative recounts the discovery of an emaciated man amidst a team of dead sled dogs. The final one of these documents describes how on the return voyage from the Arctic, its author saw an eight foot tall being weeping over the corpse of his creator, Victor. For 10 points, name these documents written to Margaret Saville by her brother Robert Walton, which frame the plot of Frankenstein
Robert Walton’s letters to his sister in Frankenstein [or Walton’s letters; just letters is fine after “Frankenstein” is read]
9

140863-)
A character in this play describes her soul being guided like an “enchanted boat” through “realms where the air we breathe is love,” upon hearing a song called the “Life of Life” while stalled in a chariot atop a mountain. A character hopes “till Hope creates / From its own wreck the thing it contemplates,” in this play’s final speech, which ends: “This is alone Life, Joy, Empire, and Victory.” The downfall of the husband of (*) Thetis in this play is portended by one of the Hours. This play’s protagonist encounters a being who rules all the gods, named Demogorgon, on a spiritual journey he takes with his wife Asia. By repudiating the curse he had laid upon Jupiter, the protagonist of this play is released from his suffering. For 10 points, name this blank verse closet drama about the Titan who stole fire, written by Percy Shelley.
Prometheus Unbound
9

140868-)
A character in this poem asserts that “sleep after toil, port after stormy seas, / Ease after war, death after life does greatly please.” The eighth stanza of this poem lists “the sayling Pine, the Cedar proud and tall, / The vine-prop Elme, the Poplar never dry,” as entries in a catalog of trees. The earliest known version of the rhyme “roses are red, violets are blue” appears in a passage of this poem describing the immaculate conception of Amoretta and (*) Belphoebe. The author prays for eternal rest with the God of Sabbath at the end of two cantos appended to this poem after his death, describing a rebellion against Jove led by the angel Mutabilitie. The first canto of this poem notes that “A Gentle Knight was pricking on the Plain,” then describes how the knight cuts off the head of the monster Error with the encouragement of Lady Una. For 10 points, name this epic poem allegorizing Queen Elizabeth I as Gloriana, by Edmund Spenser.
The Faerie Queene
9

140871-)
A novel by this author begins by describing a photograph in which one can see an entrenching tool covered in the blood and hair of eight Germans. The protagonist of a novel by this author ignores several eligible bachelors in favor of her philandering pedophilic uncle, who is nicknamed “The Lecherous Lecturer.” Several kids in one of her novels free animals from their gamekeeper’s traps as part of a secret society called the “Hons.” She described how the middle classes affect a (*) non-U English that is more refined than even the U English of the upper classes in her essay “The English Aristocracy.” This author of the biographies The Sun King and Voltaire in Love is best known for a pair of thinly-autobiographical novels of the aristocratic Radlett family in interwar England. For 10 points, name this author of the novels Love in a Cold Climate and The Pursuit of Love, a member of a prominent set of seven English sisters.
Nancy Mitford
9

140888-)
A poem within this story is hopeful that its subject’s spirit “may / Rise, like the Phoenix from the flames, / When breaks the dawning of the day.” A character in this story lights his cigarette by tearing off and burning pieces of the information cards he is supposed to hand out. This story is set in a room heated inadequately by cinders raked with a piece of cardboard by the caretaker Old Jack. Soon after the characters in this story complain that there’s nothing to drink, a (*) boy comes over from the Black Eagle with a dozen bottles of stout. In this story, Joe Hynes recites his poem about “The Death of Parnell” to thunderous applause at the title place, despite them having earlier suspected that he is a shill for the opponent of their man for Lord Mayor, Richard Tierney. For 10 points, name this story from Dubliners depicting a meeting of political canvassers, by James Joyce.
“Ivy Day in the Committee Room”
9

140893-)
This section of a larger work describes a man who nonchalantly says: “Ere thunder stops, here comes a rain” when a woman pours piss on his head. A character who interrupts this section is shut up with the quote “Whoso would not be warned by other men, / By him shall other men be corrected be,” from Ptolemy’s Almagest. The speaker of this section lies about having a dream in which she is killed and her bed is filled with blood. The speaker of this section tears three pages out of Valerie and Theofraste, a chronicle of (*) deceitful women, punching a man who reads from it nightly, prompting him to retaliate with a blow that leaves her deaf in one ear. The speaker of this section labels the casket bearer Jenkin as the last of her two “bad husbands,” which follow her three good ones. For 10 points, name this section of The Canterbury Tales that precedes a much shorter story in which a knight investigates what women most desire.
“The Wife of Bath’s Prologue” [prompt on The Canterbury Tales; do not accept or prompt on “The Wife of Bath’s Tale”]
9

140894-)
Description acceptable. This author asked, “who shall close my Lady’s eyes / And who shall fold her hands?” in the bitter poem “The Lust of the Eyes.” A different author observed that only “The blank grey / There where the pool is blind of the moon’s face” remained in a glass after this woman was gone. This woman appears “not as she is, but was when hope shone bright,” in the poem “In An Artist’s Studio,” written by her sister-in-law. This woman inspired the sonnet “Without Her” as well as a poem noting that “she had (*) three lilies in her hand / And the stars in her hair were seven.” Seven years after this woman died of a laudanum overdose, her husband had her coffin exhumed so he could retrieve all his poems. This woman’s death inspired a poem that begins with her leaning “out / From the gold bar of heaven.” For 10 points, name this subject of “The Blessed Damozel,” whose author had her model for his painting Beata Beatrix.
Elizabeth Siddal [or Elizabeth Eleanor Siddal; or Lizzy Siddal; accept Elizabeth Rossetti; accept Lizzy Rossetti; or Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s wife; prompt on just
9

140908-)
In this novel, a character’s boyhood visions of women carrying pitchers to the Nile are punctuated by progressively longer excerpts from the folk song “O western wind, when wilt thou blow?” A character in this novel observes that “Everything falls in a tremendous shower, dissolving me,” as she peers off a high cliff in Spain, off which, it is later implied, she leaps to commit suicide. In adjacent sections, this novel describes a dinner party given in honor of a character departing to take a government post in (*) India, and that character’s death there from being thrown from a horse. This novel consists of nine italicized passages describing the interplay of sun, sky, and surf at different times of day, separating stream-of-consciousness soliloquies about Percival, delivered by his friends Susan, Louis, Jinny, Bernard, Rhoda, and Neville. For 10 points, name this most experimental novel by Virginia Woolf.
The Waves
9

140911-)
The precipitating incident of this story is described as a natural consequence of having “four million human beings all jostling each other within the space of a few square miles.”A character in this story runs away after accidentally smashing a window with a stick while defending himself from a few ruffians who attack him at four in the morning. The protagonist of this story deduces that a man has no gas in his house, from observing five tallow stains on his (*) hat. The protagonist of this story learns Mrs. Oakshott’s address by purposefully losing a bet to Mr. Breckinridge about whether his livestock are town or country bred. In this story, the maid Catherine Cusack conspires with James Ryder to have the plumber John Horner be arrested for the theft of a prized possession of the Countess of Morcar. For 10 points, name this Sherlock Holmes story whose title jewel is found in the crop of a Christmas goose.
“The Blue Carbuncle”
9

140913-)
Upon metaphorically perceiving the solid earth to be one of these objects inside an air pocket, a character vomits behind a clump of laurels near a factory where they are being made. From the vantage point of one of these devices, two characters on a date see a crematorium from which phosphorus is being collected for fertilizer. After hitting his head on one of these things, a black man kidnaps and has sex with a blonde woman inside of one, in a “feely” titled for Three (*) Weeks in one of these devices, which come in “taxi” and “sporti” variants. Near the end of the novel, a crowd of people descend in these devices to watch the spectacle of Lenina Crowe being whipped by John the Savage. Gammas, Deltas, and Epsilons travel in high-speed monorails instead of in these vehicles. For 10 points, name this primary means of transportation for the privileged castes in the World State from Brave New World.
helicopters [or taxicopters; or sporticopters]
9

140917-)
This quality is hailed as the “sweet precursor of the gen’rous deed” in a satiric “poetical epistle” that Hannah More addressed to the “bluestocking” Frances Boscawen. G.J. Barker-Benfield’s literary study of the “culture” of this quality describes the folk belief that it was the byproduct of overactive nerves. In Vindication of the Rights of Woman, Mary Wollstonecraft savages the “cult of” this quality for enslaving women to love. (*) Sentimental novels such as Fanny Burney’s Evelina were also known as “novels of” this quality. After being rebuffed by the philanderer John Willoughby and getting engaged to Colonel Brandon, Marianne Dashwood finds a happy medium between embodying this quality and expressing its counterpart, possessed by her sister Elinor. For 10 points, name this predisposition to deep emotional response to art, which Jane Austen paired with “Sense.”
sensibility
9

140920-)
Three characters in this scene reappear, hurling insults such as “hang, you whoreson, insolent noisemaker!” at a character who had ordered them to exit just four lines before. In this scene, a character ironically places his full trust upon a man whose “complexion is perfect gallows.” This scene ends just after a character prays for “an acre of barren ground, long heath, brown furze, any thing.” The sound effects specified by its opening stage direction were generated at its premiere by a cannonball that was rolled around the roof of the (*) Blackfriars theater. Tension is generated in this scene because the working-class Boatswain orders everyone, including the lords Sebastian, Antonio, and Gonzalo, to go belowdecks. For 10 points, name this chaotic opening scene of a Shakespeare play, depicting a weather event conjured by Prospero.
the tempest from The Tempest [or synonyms; accept the first scene of The Tempest or equivalents, before it is read]
9

140933-)
The perpetrator of this historical event is symbolized as a dog “jumping the… streets with millions of tin cans / Clanking at his tail,” in Louis MacNeice’s poem “Brother Fire.” During this event, the speaker of a poem is forced to confront “the awareness / Of things ill done and done to others’ harm / Which once you took for exercise of virtue,” when he encounters a ghost in the streets “after the dark dove with the flickering tongue / Had passed below the horizon of his homing.” T.S. Eliot’s personal (*) involvement in this event informs the second section of “Little Gidding.” The devastation wrought by this event prompts the speaker of a poem to conclude: “After the first death, there is no other.” This event is likened to a torrent “dark as the world of man, black as our loss - / Blind as the nineteen hundred and forty nails / Upon the cross” in Edith Sitwell’s “Still Falls the Rain.” For 10 points, name this destructive historical event that prompted Dylan Thomas to write “A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London.”
the Blitz [or the Battle of Britain]
9

140935-)
Frances Ferguson argues that this event marked a breakthrough for psychological fiction, in her essay titled for it “and the Rise of the Novel.” Terry Eagleton penned a study titled for this scene, examining “Writing, Sexuality, and Class Struggle” in the works of the author who wrote it. After this event, its victim jots down fragments from different poems at wild angles all over the page, in the last of the ten “mad papers” that she mutilates and flings to the floor. The perpetrator of this action is called a “savage-hearted monster” in a reply to his short (*) confession reading: “And now, Belford, I can go no farther. The affair is over.” At the suggestion of the brothel owner Mrs. Sinclair, this action is perpetrated while its victim is unconscious from being drugged, and so her virtue remains intact. For 10 points, name this crime that Robert Lovelace commits against the heroine of a Samuel Richardson novel.
the rape of Clarissa [prompt on rape]
9

141002-)
One   novel   inspired   by   this   character   centers   on   Syrena,   who   is   pursued   by   Sir   Thomas   and his   son   after   she   terminates   her   pregnancy   following   an   affair   with   Vardine.   This   character’s brother  is  robbed  on  his  way  to  meet   (+) F   anny  Goodwill  after  he  is  kicked  out  following  a  feud with   Mrs.   Slipslop.   Eliza   Haywood   mocked   this   character   in   a   novel   entitled   “The   Anti-[this character]”.   Mr.   Williams   proposes   to   her   who   mistakes   two   cows    (*)   for   bulls,   keeping   her   from escaping   from   Mrs.   Jewkes.   A   collection   of   letters   she   leaves   in   a   rosebush   prompts   one   character   to consider   proposing   to   her.   Lady   Davers   reveals   that   man’s   affairs   with   Sally   Godfrey   following   his wedding   to   this   character,   who   Henry   Fielding   mocked   in   his   novels   about   her   brother   Joseph   and   one about   an   Apology   for   her   Life.   For   10   points,   identify   this   protagonist   of   an   epistolary   novel   by   Samuel Richardson.
Pamela ;   or,   Virtue   Rewarded
7

141009-)
This character tells a young boy "You save your witness, and he'll save your neck" after he prevents that boy from being attacked. The author who created this character based him on the poet of "Invictus," William Ernest Henley. While hiding in an apple barrel, the narrator hears this man give orders to Israel Hands and mention serving alongside Blind Pew. He successfully attacks a stockade because Captain Smollett refuses his offer of truce, and later captures Jim Hawkins. This one-time quartermaster to Captain Flint owns a parrot who repeats "pieces of eight! pieces of eight!" For 10 points, name this one-legged cook, the ringleader of a group of pirates in Robert Louis Stevenson's Treasure Island.
Long John Silver [or Silver] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
7

141036-)
A poem addressed to this type of person notes that "A honey tongue, a heart of gall, Is fancy's spring, but sorrow's fall." Musidorus disguises himself as this type of person after falling in love with Pamela in Philip Sidney's Arcadia. Characters like Hobbinol and Colin Clout appear in a book of poetry partially named for this type of person, which features one poem for each month of the year. In another poem, this type of person pledges gifts of "Fair lined slippers for the cold, With buckles of the purest gold" and "A belt of straw and Ivy buds, With Coral clasps and Amber studs." Pastoral poetry traditionally depicts the lives of these people. For 10 points, name this type of person who asks "Come live with me and be my love" in a poem by Christopher Marlowe.
shepherd [or The Shepheardes Calender; or "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love"; or "The Nymph's Reply to the Shepherd"] &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141049-)
After seeing a poster of Stanley Baldwin with the words "Safety First" underneath, this character proclaims that goodness, truth, and beauty are more important than safety. At the end of the novel named for this character, Sister Helena repeats that this character was the most important influence on her book The Transfiguration of the Commonplace. Despite this character's best efforts to set up Rose Stanley with Teddy Lloyd, Teddy falls in love with Sandy Stranger. She encourages Joyce Emily to fight for Franco in the Spanish Civil War, and earns the devotion of her "set" of six girls at the Marcia Blaine School for Girls. For 10 points, name this manipulative teacher whose "prime" titles a novel by Muriel Spark.
Miss Jean Brodie [or Miss Jean Brodie; or The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie] &lt;Belal&gt;
7

141061-)
In this novel, a man on his honeymoon in Rome is depicted as Thomas Aquinas in a scene of a disputation executed by a German painter. In this novel, a tyrannical old man on his deathbed fruitlessly offers the woman watching him two hundred pounds to burn his second will. A reformist doctor in this novel treats a man for typhoid fever and falls in love with the patient's sister, Rosamond Vincy, after moving to the title location. That doctor, Tertius Lydgate, dies at the end of this novel, in which the author of a prospective Key to All Mythologies, Edward Casaubon, marries the young idealist Dorothea Brooke. For 10 points, name this "Study of Provincial Life" set in the title town by George Eliot.
Middlemarch &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141070-)
After saying that he will "speak a prophecy," this character tells that audience that "the realm of Albion" will "come to great confusion" when "priests are more in word than matter" and "brewers mar their malt with water." A speech by this character ends with the rhyming lines "Leave thy drink and thy whore / And keep in-a-door / And thou shalt have more / Than two tens to a score." This character tells a man he calls "nuncle" that "thou hadst little wit in thy bald crown when thou gav'st thy golden one away." He first appears offering Kent his coxcomb, and later encounters Edgar acting like Tom o' Bedlam after accompanying the King of England into a raging storm. For 10 points, name this surprisingly wise companion of King Lear.
King Lear's Fool &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141090-)
This novel includes an amusingly-named fictional location named Boggley Wollah, where a man claims to be a revenue collector for the British East India Company. In this novel, it is considered a punishment when a man is appointed governor of the backwards Coventry Island. A woman in this novel wins the favor of Lady Steyne at Gaunt House by singing some Mozart ballads. Several later scenes of this novel are set in Pumpernickel, where one character seduces and marries Jos. Near the end of this novel, its main character reveals a note written on the eve of the Battle of Waterloo by George Osborne, causing a reconciliation and a marriage between William Dobbin and Amelia Sedley. For 10 points, name this novel about Becky Sharp written by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141094-)
Giles Allen sued the owners of this location for transporting a building from his land to this place while he was on vacation. The official symbol of this location featured a picture of Hercules and the Latin motto "Totus mundus agit histrionem." This location is referred to as an "unworthy scaffold" designed "to bring forth so great an object" in a prologue of a play that gave it the nickname "The Wooden O." Its majority stakeholders included Cuthbert and Richard Burbage, who were also the leaders of the Lord Chamberlain's Men. This location was destroyed by a fire in 1613 after a cannon misfired during a performance of Henry VIII. For 10 points, name this London performing venue that premiered many of Shakespeare's plays.
Globe Theatre &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141107-)
This character fondly recalls "the triumphant conviction of strength, the heat of life in the handful of dust" associated with the title attribute in a short story that concludes with his first vision of the East. He describes the "claim of distant kinship affirmed in a supreme moment" he feels when his helmsman is fatally struck in the side with a spear during an ambush. This character, who first appears in the story "Youth," discovers an official report that shockingly ends with the words "Exterminate all the brutes!" He narrates an encounter with a megalomaniacal ivory trader in a novella in which he captains a steamboat up the Congo. For 10 points, name this recurring character created by Joseph Conrad, the main narrator of Heart of Darkness.
Charles Marlow [or Charles Marlow] &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141115-)
In this poem, one of the speakers recounts how she was beaten and stripped of her mantle by the "sentinels of the walls" making their rounds in the city. A speaker in this poem explains that her skin is dark due to manual labor forced on her by her "mother's sons," who were angry with her. This poem's florid similes include multiple comparisons of teeth to "a flock of ewes… come up from the washing," and towards the end it asserts that "love is strong as death, passion fierce as the grave." A speaker in this poem tells his lover "you are a garden locked up" and that her smell is like the scent of Lebanon. This poem is part of the Megillot (meh-gee-LOAT), or "five scrolls," along with Lamentations, Ruth, Esther, and Ecclesiastes. For 10 points, name this erotic poem traditionally attributed to a wise Biblical king with many wives.
The Song of Solomon [or The Song of Songs; or Canticles; or Canticle of Canticles; or Shir Hashirim; or Aisma Aismaton] &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141117-)
In Henry Green's novel Loving, Raunce, a character with this profession, begins a relationship with his younger coworker Edith. A character with this profession becomes the leader of a group of castaways after becoming shipwrecked with the Loam family in James Barrie's comedy The Admirable Crichton. A character with this profession describes his country's landscape as the most "deeply satisfying in the world" and states "I have carried out my duties to the best of my abilities" in a chapter set in Moscombe. That character attempts to improve his "bantering" with Mr. Farraday while working for Lord Darlington. For 10 points, name this profession of Stevens in Kazuo Ishiguro's The Remains of the Day.
butler [accept servant] &lt;Mehr&gt;
7

141151-)
In this country, a fictional character referred to as "Quinbus Flestrin" is subjected to a formal inventory of his belongings that parodies contemporary investigations of the Earl of Oxford and Viscount Bolingbroke. In this country, a plot to remove the protagonist's eyes for treason arises after he refuses to commit genocide against believers in the Big-Endian heresy. This country's two main political factions are divided between wearers of high heels and low heels, representing the Tories and the Whigs. After a shipwreck, the protagonist swims to the shore of this rival of Blefuscu, and awakes to find himself tied to the ground by its residents. For 10 points, name this country that Gulliver visits on his first voyage, an island inhabited by people who are tiny.
Lilliput &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141154-)
This character discovers that a woman faked a suicide attempt to gain his sympathy after meeting with Catchpole. He falls asleep with a lit cigarette, burning a hole in his bedsheets, during a "musical weekend." This character successfully poses as Beesley, a journalist from the Evening Post, to dupe a man vying to become the assistant of art patron Julius Gore-Urquhart (UHR-kart). Throughout the novel he appears in, he is conflicted in his feelings for Christine Callaghan and Margaret Peel. He is fired by Ned Welch after his dislike for the pretentious Bertrand inspires him to deliver a drunken, mocking lecture on "Merrie England." For 10 points, name this apathetic professor, the title character of a novel by Kingsley Amis.
"Lucky" Jim Dixon [or Jim Dixon] &lt;Mehr&gt;
7

141162-)
In a poem dedicated to his mother, this author described a felled chestnut tree as "a soul ramifying and forever / silent, beyond silence listened for." The speaker of a poem by this author declares "I always felt like crying. It wasn't fair / That all the canfuls smelt of rot" after harvesting the title fruit in late August. In another poem by this author, the speaker remembers "Big Jim Evans saying it was a hard blow" and seeing the corpse of one of his relatives "wearing a poppy bruise on his left temple." This author of "Clearances" and "Blackberry Picking" described his dead brother Christopher lying in "a four-foot box, a foot for every year" in the poem "Mid-Term Break." For 10 points name this Irish poet who gained renown for his 2000 translation of Beowulf.
Seamus Heaney (SHAY-muss HEE-nee) &lt;Belal&gt;
7

141169-)
Because he wishes to run off with his mistress, a character in this novel files a lawsuit against himself to void all the furniture from his house but loses the case and ends up in jail. At the end of this novel, the protagonist loosens the strap of a saddle, causing a man to fall off his horse. In this novel, the hostess of the Stag Inn describes a "strange marriage" in which a widow tricks the Marquis des Arcis into marrying a prostitute. In this novel, the title character is shot in the knee but nursed back to health by Denise, who becomes his lover; that title character believes that every event is written on "a scroll up above." For 10 points, name this novel about a Frenchman with a pessimistic philosophy written by Denis Diderot.
Jacques the Fatalist and His Master [or Jacques le Fataliste et Son Maître] &lt;Mehr&gt;
7

141192-)
This author described a body "quailing" from a blade's "downward darting kiss" in a poem about the relationship between "Brother Lead and Sister Steel." This author observed that hope "flounders in mud" for "lines of grey, muttering faces, masked with fear" in a poem that ends by exclaiming "O Jesus, make it stop!" Another poem by this author begins "We'd gained our first objective hours before" and climaxes with a "blundering officer" ordering the failed title event. After his protest titled "A Soldier's Declaration" was read in the House of Commons, he befriended a younger poet at Craiglockhart War Hospital. For 10 points, name this author who criticized World War I in poems like "Attack" and "Counter-Attack," a mentor to Wilfred Owen.
Siegfried Sassoon &lt;Thompson&gt;
7

141209-)
This poet gave "special thanks" to a playwright "from first youth tested up to extreme old age… who saw life steadily, and saw it whole" in a sonnet "To a Friend." The speaker hears a whisper asking "What dost thou in this living tomb?" in his poem that describes "wandering between two worlds, one dead, the other powerless to be born." This poet of "Stanzas from the Grande Chartreuse" lamented "this strange disease of modern life" in a poem named for a man who joins a "wild brotherhood" upon leaving Oxford. He also described the "melancholy, long, withdrawing roar" of the "Sea of Faith" in a poem ending with the image of ignorant armies clashing by night. For 10 points, name this Victorian poet of "The Scholar-Gipsy" and "Dover Beach."
Matthew Arnold &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141233-)
While staying in this city, a man hears the story of Curran, a circus manager whose passion was founding a church exclusively for dogs. At the end of a novel set in this city, an old priest tells a girl "You can't conceive, my child, nor can I or anyone, the appalling strangeness of the mercy of God." This is the first place that Henry Pulling is taken to by Augusta in the novel Travels with My Aunt. In this city, Ida Arnold summons the police to the site of a mutual suicide pact where Rose's life is saved, but her husband jumps off a cliff. In a novel titled for a type of candy sold in this city, the journalist Fred Hale is murdered by gang leader Pinkie Brown. For 10 points, name this English seaside resort whose "rock" titles a novel by Graham Greene.
Brighton [accept Brighton Rock] &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141237-)
The fourth part of this poem alludes to Dante's Paradiso in its description of "the perpetual star / Multifoliate rose." This poem imagines "lips that would kiss" that "form prayers to broken stone" in its third section, which begins "this is the dead land." It quotes Joseph Conrad's line "Life is very long" and fragments of the Lord's Prayer in its final section, which observes "between the idea / and the reality… falls the shadow." Its first stanza describes the title characters as "shape without form, shade without color, Paralysed force, gesture without motion." This poem's final lines are "This is the way the world ends / Not with a bang but a whimper." For 10 points, name this poem by T. S. Eliot whose title characters are spiritually empty.
"The Hollow Men" &lt;Thompson&gt;
7

141241-)
Insisting on the centrality of "intellectual freedom," this essay cites at length Arthur Quiller-Couch's argument that "the poor poet has not in these days, nor has had for two hundred years, a dog's chance." In an extended metaphor at the beginning of this essay, the narrator lowers her line of thought into the stream and catches a little fish of an idea. In this essay, one of the "Four Marys" from the ballad is cited as the author of the fictional novel Life's Adventure, which includes the sentence, "Chloe liked Olivia." This essay maintains that five hundred pounds a year and the title luxury are prerequisites for a woman to write fiction. For 10 points, name this seminal feminist essay by Virginia Woolf.
A Room of One's Own &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141249-)
This person is actually the title character of the novel The Prince of India by Lew Wallace, in which he helps bring about the fall of Constantinople. He is frequently claimed to be a shoemaker. A Roger of Wendover story gave him the specific name "Cartaphilus." Legends about this person intensified after a 17th-century pamphlet in which he, under the name "Ahasuerus" (aha-SWARE-us), met a bishop at a church in Hamburg and appeared repentant. An early story about this person claims he cruelly hit a prisoner and shouted "go on quicker!", only to be told "thou shalt go on until the last day." For 10 points, name this legendary man, possibly a servant of Pilate, who taunted Jesus on the latter's way to his crucifixion and was thus cursed to walk the Earth until the Second Coming.
Wandering Jew [or Eternal Jew; or Cartaphilus until read; accept Ahasuerus or Ahasver until read; prompt on Joseph; prompt on Isaac] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
7

141278-)
A poem about one of these animals describes how it "drops the silver chain of sound" after it "rises and begins to round." In the first stanza of "In Flanders Fields," the sounds of this type of animal are "Scarce heard amid the guns below." One poem tells this animal "thou lovest, but ne'er knew love's sad satiety" (suh-TIE-uh-tee) after comparing it to "a high-born maiden in a palace tower" and "a poet hidden in the light of thought." The final stanza of that poem asks this animal to teach the speaker "half the gladness / that thy brain must know." George Meredith wrote a poem about this type of animal "ascending." For 10 points, name this type of songbird addressed as a "blithe spirit" in a poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
larks [or "The Lark Ascending"; or "To a Skylark"; prompt on birds or aves] &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141286-)
One member of this title group asserts that all militaries must be "the finest in the world" although navies are measured by tonnage. This group is first encountered when a man is convinced to rig his stone trough to be more like a boat by Samsok, who is in reality the Devil. This group is deeply divided over whether or not Eighty Thousand Trusses of Hay were stolen by Pyrot. A great military leader of this group is named Trinco. God consults St. Catherine of Alexandria and decides that because the monk Mael baptized this group, they should be turned into humans. This group waged perennial war against their rivals, the porpoises. For 10 points, name this group that appears in an Anatole France novel titled for their namesake island.
the Penguins [accept Penguin Island] &lt;Bentley&gt;
7

141295-)
A character in this play expresses her prejudice against dark-skinned men by declaring that if a potential suitor has "the complexion of a devil, I had rather he should shrive me than wive me." A song in this play wonders "Tell me where is fancy bred / Or in the heart, or in the head?" A character in this play is disappointed when he learns that his daughter traded a prized turquoise ring for a monkey. In its fourth act, a woman disguised as a judge delivers a speech beginning "The quality of mercy is not strain'd." In a monologue from this play, a character vows to get revenge after asking "if you prick us, do we not bleed?" For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Shylock seeks to extract a pound of flesh from Antonio.
The Merchant of Venice &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141311-)
An author from this country wrote a play whose notorious "Nicky-Nacky Scene" depicts a politician pretending to be a bull, a toad, and a dog while being whipped by the courtesan Aquilina. A play written in this country features an Act 4 "proviso scene" in which two lovers use legal terms to negotiate the conditions of their marriage. In a bawdy play written in this country, a man deliberately spreads the false rumor that he is impotent so that he can seduce the wives of unsuspecting husbands. 17th-century authors in this country wrote Venice Preserved and comedies like The Way of the World and The Country Wife. For 10 points, name this country where William Congreve and William Wycherly wrote plays after the Restoration of Charles II.
England [or Britain; or Great Britain; or United Kingdom; or UK] &lt;Thompson&gt;
7

141341-)
A man in this play who was interrupted while trying to kill an animal claims to have exterminated only half of a rat. A character in this play repeatedly asks for his dog, which culminates in his companion taking a toy dog and using it to strike him in the head. At the start of this play, a character pulls back the curtains to reveal a window that faces the sea and a window that faces the land. Two characters in this play lament their inability to kiss because they are buried in dirt, have no mobility, and live in dustbins. This play's two main characters, one of whom cannot sit and the other of whom cannot stand, are named Hamm and Clov. For 10 points, name this Samuel Beckett play whose title refers to the final part of a chess match.
Endgame [or Fin de partie] &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141357-)
This character is subjected to an older woman's interminable conversation about the contents of a new letter from her niece, which this character escapes having read aloud to her. This character fails to realize that the phrase "ready wit" in a charade based on the word "courtship" indicates that it was intended for her and not her friend. This woman cares for her hypochondriac father at Hartfield and manipulates her friend Harriet Smith into initially rejecting Robert Martin. Ultimately, she marries her brother-in-law George Knightley. For 10 points, name this woman with a penchant for matchmaking, the title character of a novel by Jane Austen.
Emma Woodhouse [prompt on Woodhouse] &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141362-)
A novel by this author begins by contrasting the smuggler Cavalletto with the "cosmopolitan gentleman" Rigaud. In that novel, this author depicted characters frustrated by the Circumlocution Office, a bureaucracy devoted to doing nothing. This author wrote a novel in which teachers criticize a girl for wanting to carpet a room with pictures of flowers because they argue the only important things are "facts, facts, facts." One of this author's title characters marries Arthur Clennam after being raised in Marshalsea prison. He wrote a novel in which mill owner Josiah Bounderby fires Stephen Blackpool and Thomas Gradgrind runs a school in Coketown. For 10 points, name this author who criticized the abuses of Victorian England in his novels Little Dorrit and Hard Times.
Charles Dickens &lt;Mehr&gt;
7

141374-)
This poet described how suddenly recalling a line of poetry while shaving would cause him to cut himself in his lecture "The Name and Nature of Poetry." This poet sardonically concluded a poem, "Be you the men you've been, get you the sons your fathers got, and God will save the Queen." The lines "There's brisker pipes than poetry" and "Luck's a chance, but trouble's sure" were written by this poet of "1887." He argued that "malt does more than Milton can to justify God's ways to man" in one of the last poems of a collection that includes "Loveliest of trees, the cherry now." For 10 points, name this English poet who included "Terence, this is stupid stuff" in his collection A Shropshire Lad.
A. E. Housman &lt;Casalaspi&gt;
7

141388-)
An author with this last name responded to the Brexit referendum by writing a 2016 novel that begins "it was the worst of times, it was the worst of times." That author paralleled the lives of the sexually ambiguous Renaissance painter Francesco and the young girl George in a novel with two sections that can be read in either order. This is the last name of Ali, the author of Autumn and How to Be Both, and an author who wrote a novel about the rivalry between academics Monty Kipps and Howard Belsey. Millat joins the fundamentalist group KEVIN in a novel by an author with this surname about the friendship between Samad Iqbal and Archie Jones in London. For 10 points, identify this surname shared by the author of On Beauty and White Teeth, Zadie.
Smith [or Ali Smith; or Zadie Smith] &lt;Mehr&gt;
7

141417-)
In a series of lectures, this author argued that "the king died and then the queen died" is a story, while "the king died and then the queen died of grief" is a plot. He distinguished between "flat" and "round" characters in those lectures, which were published in 1927 as Aspects of the Novel. This author wrote a novel whose epigraph exhorts the reader "Only connect." Charles Wilcox kills Leonard Bast in that novel by this author, which ends with Helen and Margaret Schlegel moving to the title estate. In another of his novels, Cyril Fielding misses a train to the Marabar Caves, resulting in Adela Quested accusing Dr. Aziz of molesting her. For 10 points, name this English author of Howard's End and A Passage to India.
E. M. Forster [or Edward Morgan Forster] &lt;Droge&gt;
7

141462-)
The first section of this work was published in Mischmasch, and this part of a larger work was famously illustrated by John Tenniel. This work’s protagonist “stood a while and thought” before making a motion to the rhythm “One, two! One, two!” with a (*) “vorpal sword.” That protagonist spends some time by the Tumtum tree. This work, which introduced the word “chortle” to the English language, describes a “manxome foe” even worse than “the frumious Bandersnatch” and opens with the words, “‘Twas brillig.” For 10 points, name this nonsense poem which appears in Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There and was also written by Lewis Carroll.
“Jabberwocky” [accept Through the Looking-Glass, and What Alice Found There until “stood a while”; afterwards prompt] &lt;CL&gt;
4

141702-)
In one poem by this writer, Oswald Wycliffe holds the title Lord Rokeby prisoner. In one of his novels, Julia is involved with Vanbeest Brown, and Ellangowan is inherited by Harry Bertram. In another novel by this author, Desdichado competes in a tournament attended by Athelstane and (*) Locksley. This author’s Guy Mannering, The Bride of Lammermoor, and Rob Roy are included in his Waverley Novels. Another work by this writer features Cedric of Rotherwood, who is the protector of Lady Rowena, a woman who eventually marries the title knight. For 10 points, name this Scottish historical fiction author behind Ivanhoe.
Sir Walter Scott, 1st Baronet &lt;CL&gt;
4

141721-)
. A line from one of this author’s short stories refers to a man who was “born under far bluer skies”. That story, which is set on a passenger liner, is Mr. Know-All. In one novel by this man, the coal baron Lord George runs off to America with Mrs. Driffield. That fact is discovered while this author’s character William Ashenden seeks to write a biography of an author many believe to be modeled on (*) Thomas Hardy. Ashenden is the protagonist of Cakes and Ale. This writer’s most famous work tells the tale of the club-footed Philip Carey’s upbringing. For 10 points, name this English author of the short story Rain and the novel Of Human Bondage.
W(illiam) Somerset Maugham &lt;LT&gt; Bonuses
4

141729-)
Characters in this work sing a song featuring the line “Hearken to my joyful tiding.” Mr. Whymper starts out buying paraffin wax in this work but then switches to alcohol, and in this work, it is almost revealed that the words “with sheets” were clandestinely added to a wall. In this work which takes place between Pinchfield and Foxwood, one character is sent to a (*) glue factory, and another tells stories about a place with seven Sundays a week, “Sugarcandy Mountain.” “I will work harder” becomes the mantra of Boxer in this work which features the pigs Napoleon and Snowball. For 10 points, name this novella, an allegory for Stalin’s Russia by George Orwell.
Animal Farm [accept Animal Farm: A Fairy Story; accept Animal Farm: A (Contemporary) Satire; accept Union des républiques socialistes animales] &lt;AL/CL&gt;
4

141738-)
In one work, this writer urges, “Tread softly because you tread on my dreams.” Another of his works describes trees “in their autumn beauty” and birds who “paddle in the cold.” This writer of two poems about swans asked sages to “gather [him] / Into the artifice of eternity” in one work. “The bee-loud glade” is the place to which this author “will (*) arise and go now” in “The Lake Isle of Innisfree,” and in another of his works, “things fall apart; the centre cannot hold” and he asks “what rough beast . . . Slouches toward Bethlehem to be born?” For 10 points, name this Irish poet of Sailing to Byzantium and The Second Coming.
W(illiam) B(utler) Yeats &lt;CL&gt;
4

141755-)
This character is proud when he is allowed to kiss the tip of a certain royal woman’s finger. This former student at the University of Leiden and former apprentice of James Bates is convicted of treason when he extinguishes a fire in a government building by urinating, and he discusses European society after fighting (*) giant wasps. During one section of the book in which this character appears, characters divide over how to crack eggs and split into the factions the Big- and Little-Endians. Those characters are under half a foot tall and hail from the island Lilliput. For 10 points, name this voyager, the title character of an adventure novel about some Travels by Jonathan Swift.
Lemuel Gulliver [accept either; do not accept or prompt on Gulliver’s Travels because pronouns]
4

141797-)
Ford Madox Ford described this historical event in his tetralogy Parade’s End. The Wine Press, written by Alfred Noyes, opposed this event, and Siegfried Sassoon wrote of it in Counter-Attack. The poem “Strange Meeting” describes this event, as does one which describes “an (*) ecstasy of fumbling.” A novel about this event was followed by The Road Back and features Katczinsky, Kemmerich, and Müller, along with the protagonist Paul Bäumer. That novel is by Erich Maria Remarque. For 10 points, name this war, the subject of Wilfred Owen’s Dulce et Decorum Est and of All Quiet on the Western Front, which began in 1914.
World War I [accept the First World War; accept the Great War; generously accept specific World War I battles until “war”] &lt;CL&gt;
4

141820-)
Surprised by her romantic feelings, one character in this work asks, “Even so quickly may one catch the plague?” An inn in this work is known as The Elephant, and this play also features a character who believes “cakes and ale” are necessities, as well as one named Andrew (*) Aguecheek (“AG-you-cheek”), the accomplice of Toby Belch. One person in this play loves a man who commands, “If music be the food of love, play on.” Malvolio is the steward of Olivia in this play, and at its end, after learning she has been disguised as a man, Sebastian is reunited with Duke Orsino’s new bride, Viola. For 10 points, identify this Shakespeare play about the events following a shipwreck in Illyria.
Twelfth Night, or What You Will [prompt on subtitle] &lt;CL&gt;
4

141833-)
In one work, this poet laments, “We have given our hearts away, a sordid boon!” This writer of “The World Is Too Much With Us” described flowers “Continuous as the stars that shine / And twinkle on the milky way” in another work. This poet included “Strange fits of passion I have known” in his (*) Lucy poems, which may be inspired by his sister, Dorothy. In another work, this poet explains, “Five years have past” since he last walked by “steep and lofty cliffs” in the title location. This poet also wrote about “golden daffodils” in “I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud” and, with Samuel Taylor Coleridge, collaborated on Lyrical Ballads. For 10 points, name this British poet of Tintern Abbey.
William Wordsworth &lt;CL&gt;
4

141854-)
When this character is offered chocolates, she responds, “How do I know what might be in them?” A ring which once belonged to this character is hurled into a fireplace. After another character tells her to leave a note about him wanting tea instead of coffee for Mrs. Pearce, this character throws her (*) slippers at him. In Act One of the play in which she appears, this character worries a man is a police officer and takes a taxi secured by Freddy Eynsford-Hill. That scene takes place in Covent Garden and features Colonel Pickering, who bets against Higgins’ ability to pass this character for a duchess. For 10 points, name this heavily accented flower girl created by George Bernard Shaw in Pygmalion.
Eliza Doolittle [accept either; do not accept or prompt on “My Fair Lady” or “Pygmalion”] &lt;CL&gt;
4

141859-)
In this novel, Mr. Wrench loses a job as a family doctor after failing to recognize typhoid fever, and a frog-eyed man named Mr. Rigg appears at Featherstone’s funeral. Fred marries Mary Garth in this novel, which also features the marriage of Lydgate and Rosamund. In one episode in this novel, John Raffles reveals the truth of (*) Bulstrode’s past. One character in this novel works on the project The Key to All Mythologies but writes a will that strips his widow of her inheritance if she marries Will Ladislaw. That character is Casaubon. For 10 points, identify this novel about Dorothea Brooke’s life in the title town, a work of George Eliot.
Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life [prompt on subtitle] &lt;CL&gt;
4

141909-)
This character is targeted by a man whose assistant is the one-legged Tungay, Mr. Creakle. Early in this character’s life, he is sent to stay with Mrs. Gummidge in an upturned boat. While working for Doctor Strong, this character learns shorthand, aided by Traddles. This character sometimes known as “Trot” is sent to Salem House for biting Edward (*) Murdstone, where he befriends Steerforth. A landlord of this character is named Micawber. This character’s first wife dies after a miscarriage and is named Dora Spenlow, but then he marries Wickfield’s daughter, Agnes, who was pursued by Uriah Heep. For 10 points, name this title character of a semi-autobiographical novel by Charles Dickens.
David Copperfield the Younger of Blunderstone Rookery [accept either; accept David Copperfield Jr.; accept Davy; accept Daisy; accept Doady; accept Trot until mention] &lt;CL&gt;
4

141916-)
This author described a draper who married his cousin, Miriam Larkins, in The History of Mr Polly. In another novel by this non-Orwell author, Ogilvy is killed while holding a white flag. Yet another of his novels features a man who uses Thomas Marvel as an assistant and schemes to kill Dr. Kemp. Edward Prendrick is the narrator of his novel about the title character’s vivisections, The (*) Island of Doctor Moreau. This creator of Griffin also wrote about relations between Eloi and Morlocks, as well as a Martian invasion and a man who tampers with his refractive index. For 10 points, name this author of science fiction works The War of the Worlds, The Invisible Man, and The Time Machine.
H(erbert) G(eorge) Wells &lt;CL&gt;
4

141935-)
One poem by this author ends, “[S]he’s dead; when thou know’st this, / Thou know’st how lame a cripple this world is.” This writer of “An Anatomy of the World” wrote a work which describes what happens “As virtuous men pass mildly away” and is addressed to someone who “makes [him] end where [he] begun.” Yet another describes an (*) insect which “sucked me first, and now sucks thee.” Those poems are “The Flea” and “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning.” Another work by this author ends by informing a character that “thou shalt die” because it is “slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men.” For 10 points, identify this poet who included “Death, be not proud” in his Holy Sonnets.
John Donne &lt;CL&gt;
4

141962-)
Frances Hodgson Burnett writes about two British girls who are this type of person in The Secret Garden and A Little Princess. In those novels Mary Lennox and Sara Crewe begins as this type of person, but become one by the end because of typhus and “jungle fever,” respectively. Philip Pirrip identifies himself as one of these people when looking at a pair of tombstones in the opening of Great Expectations. Heathcliff is one of these people, so he is taken into custody by the Earnshaws. Exemplified by Oliver Twist, for ten points, name this type of person whose parents have died.
orphans [accept obvious equivalents] &lt;AG&gt;
4

141982-)
One character in this novel is given Delaford Parsonage after being disinherited in favor of his brother. Another character in this novel impregnates Eliza Williams and later returns a lock of hair and love letters after discovering that the recipient is poor. Lucy Steele marries Robert at the end of this novel, though she is previously engaged to his brother, Edward. After discovering that his true love is deathly ill, John Willoughby confesses his love to her sister. For 10 points, name this Jane Austen novel centering on Elinor and Marianne Dashwood.
Sense and Sensibility &lt;SoH&gt;
4

141995-)
The speaker of this poem praises a “happy melodist” and urges, “ye soft pipes, play on.” The subject of this poem is addressed as a “Sylvan historian,” in its last stanza, the speaker muses, “Thou, silent form, dost tease us out of thought / As doth eternity.” The poet of this work describes the subject as a “foster-child of silence and slow time” and a “still unravish'd bride of quietness,” which by the end of this work leads the poet to assert his claim that “Beauty is truth, truth beauty.” For 10 points, name this poem by John Keats about the title piece of ancient pottery.
“Ode on a Grecian Urn” &lt;NB&gt;
4

142023-)
One character in this work begs to be led off a cliff to his death after crying, "As flies to wanton boys are we to the gods / They kill us for their sport." This character later dies from shock when he discovers that his son is still alive. Earlier, that son disguises himself as a madman, Tom O’ Bedlam. Another character in this play replies “Nothing, my Lord” when asked to declare her love for the protagonist, who declares “How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is to have a thankless child!” For 10 points, name this Shakespearean tragedy in which a kingdom must be divided amongst Goneril, Regan, and Cordelia.
King Lear &lt;SoH&gt;
4

142045-)
One character in this novel earns a job playing the stereo during Sunday mass, and becomes interested in the Old Testament due to the graphic descriptions of torture and murder. The protagonist of this novel attacks a writer and tears up a manuscript that shares a title with the novel itself. That protagonist is presided over by the post-correction officer P. R. Deltoid, and frequently drinks dug-laced milk at the Korova Milk Bar. This novel features the Ludovico Technique, which attempts to decrease violence in individuals by playing Beethoven. Nadsat is spoken by teens, like Alex and his droogs, in this novel. For 10 points, name this novel by Anthony Burgess.
A Clockwork Orange &lt;AT&gt;
4

142058-)
In this novel, “a streak of phosphorescence” accompanies a body as it is carried away by the tide, and Maurice kicks sand into the eyes of Percival. A character in this novel has his arm grazed by the tusk of a boar and leads a ritual that results in the murder of a boy who speaks to a decapitated sow’s head. In this novel, a boulder rolled by Roger crushes a conch shell and kills an asthmatic boy whose glasses are used to start fires. The twins Sam and Eric find the corpse of a parachutist in this novel, in which Ralph, Simon, and Piggy are English schoolboys who resort to savagery after surviving a plane crash on a deserted island. For 10 points, name this novel by William Golding.
Lord of the Flies &lt;NW&gt;
4

142088-)
One poet from this country wrote the line “Dark is a way and light is a place” in his “Poem on His Birthday.” Medieval works from this country include the poetry of Taliesin and the collection of legends known as the Mabinogion. One author born in this country wrote a sequel to one of his most notable works which introduced a glass elevator. That author also wrote the children’s book The BFG. One author from this country wrote the play Under Milk Wood as well as the poems “Fern Hill” and “Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night”. For ten points, name this country, a subdivision of the United Kingdom and home to Roald Dahl and Dylan Thomas.
Wales [prompt on “United Kingdom” or “Great Britain’; do not accept “England”] &lt;CC&gt;
4

142109-)
This poet wrote the line “A heap of dust alone remains of thee, 'Tis all thou art, and all the proud shall be!” in "Elegy to the Memory of an Unfortunate Lady." In another work by this poet, the title characters are caught in a secret love affair and one of them wishes for “the eternal sunshine of a spotless mind.” This author notes that “A little learning is a dangerous thing” and “To err is human, to forgive divine” in “An Essay on Criticism.” The sylphs try to prevent the Baron from cutting off a lock of Belinda’s hair in another of this man’s works. For 10 points, name this author of “Eloisa to Abelard” and The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope &lt;SoH&gt;
4

142120-)
. One of this man’s earliest surviving works is a marionette play he wrote for his siblings, La Guida di Bragia. He also wrote a poem about a hunting party which ends when the quarry vanishes because it was “a Boojum, you see.” One character created by this author asks the riddle “How is a raven like a writing desk?” and other characters created by this author include Bill the Lizard, the Mock Turtle, and the Cheshire Cat. For ten points, name this author of Jabberwocky and Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.
Lewis Carroll (accept Charles Lutwidge Dodgson) &lt;AG&gt; Bonuses
4

142142-)
This author writes “My verse, your virtues rare shall eternize, / And in the heavens write your glorious name” in a sonnet cycle to his future wife Elizabeth Boyle titled Amoretti. In another poem written for the marriage of Elizabeth and Katherine Somerset by this author, the line “Sweet Thames run softly, till I end my song” concludes each stanza. In addition to The Shepherd’s Calendar, this author wrote an epic poem in which Una is rescued by the Red Crosse Knight and Gloriana represents Elizabeth I. For 10 points, name this sixteenth-century English poet of The Faerie Queen.
Edmund Spenser &lt;SoH&gt;
4

142176-)
One of the characters in this novel moves to an air-lighthouse and another character does not enjoy playing Riemann Surface Tennis and Obstacle Golf. In this book, Podsnap’s Technique is used to increase the birthrate of people created through Bokanovsky’s Process, and phrases such as “civilization is sterilization” are recited from birth. People in this book are divided into five castes based on their conception, the lowest being Epsilons and the highest Alphas. For 10 points, name this novel that follows Bernard Marx and his acquaintance with John the Savage, by Aldous Huxley.
Brave New World &lt;SoH&gt;
4

142180-)
In the epigraph that begins this poem, Guido da Montefeltro confesses his sins to Dante as he descends the circles of hell. The speaker of this poem is tired of “arms that lie along a table, or wrap about a shawl.” While “measuring out his life with coffee spoons” and worrying over his bald spot, the speaker professes he is not “Prince Hamlet.” He hears “mermaids singing, each to each” and asks “Do I dare / disturb the universe?" For 10 points, name this poem by T.S. Eliot in which women “come and go / speaking of Michelangelo.”
“The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” &lt;KX&gt;
4

142193-)
This work was originally written in ten books, but a “Revised and Augmented” version was written in twelve books. Two characters in this book are described as walking “hand in hand, with wandering steps and slow.” One character in this work builds a city named Pandemonium and then declares that it is “Better to reign in hell than to serve in heaven.” According to the first book of this work, the author’s purpose is to “justify the ways of God to man.” For ten points, name this 17th-century epic poem by John Milton that tells the story of Adam and Eve’s expulsion from the Garden of Eden.
Paradise Lost &lt;AG&gt;
4

142195-)
This poem mentions Queen Modthryth, who perpetrates terrible wrongs against her subjects. In this poem, treasure is sent to the Wulfings to mend a feud after Heatholaf is killed. Another character in this poem proves his masculinity by stating that he was pulled underwater by a sea monster during a swimming race. A thief in this poem steals a gem-encrusted goblet, causing a dragon to attack Geatland. Its protagonist defeats another enemy by ripping his arm out of its socket, and slays that beast’s mother, therefore saving King Hrothgar in the hall of Heorot. For 10 points, name this Old English epic poem about the slayer of Grendel.
Beowulf &lt;AT&gt;
4

142210-)
One novel by this author begins with a child “slicing at the head of a Moor” with an imaginary sword, and that protagonist later goes on to write a long poem called The Oak Tree. In another novel by this author, a World War I veteran named Septimus Smith who suffers from stress-induced hallucinations. This author wrote an essay in which she imagines a woman named Judith who is the sister of William Shakespeare, but who has not been able to develop her talent because she “was not sent to school.” The same year her novel Between the Acts was published, this author drowned herself in the River Ouse. For ten points, name this British author of A Room of One’s Own and Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf &lt;AG&gt;
4

142239-)
In one of this man’s plays, a café employee going by the alias Bernard Jenkins puts off “going to Sidcup” to prove that his name is Mac Davies, despite the man he’s staying with, Aston, giving him shoes and money. A character created by this man reads articles on a cat-killing child and an elderly man who was run over by a truck. Another character in that play by this man can’t figure out why the toilet takes so long to flush and argues about the phrase “light the kettle.” For 10 points, name this British playwright of The Caretaker and The Birthday Party, who created hitmen Gus and Ben in The Dumb Waiter.
Harold Pinter &lt;NB&gt;
4

142256-)
One character in this work switches the location of a baby cradle, causing the baby’s mother to sleep in the wrong bed. Later on in this work, the devil drags a man’s body and soul, as well as a frying pan, to hell. Three men in this work kill each other over a bunch of gold coins found at the foot of an oak tree, and a comedic scene sees Absalom poke Nicholas’s buttocks with a hot coulter. This work sees a man kiss an old hag, who then transforms into a beautiful woman. The central group in this work is on a journey to visit Thomas Becket's shrine. For 10 points, name this old English work featuring the “Knight’s Tale” and “Wife of Bath’s Tale,” by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales &lt;AT&gt;
4

142273-)
A satire of this work published in Blackwood’s Magazine writes how a character is a “tippsye manne / the red-nosed waggonere.” A character in this poem is called a “gray-bearded loon” after stopping another character. That character described how “slimy things did crawl with legs / upon the slimy sea,” and he later sees Death and (*) Life-in-Death playing a game of dice. In the beginning of this poem, a character stops another on his way to a wedding. The title character notes that there is “water, water, everywhere / nor any drop to drink,” in, For ten points, what Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem about a sailor who shoots an albatross?
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner [accept The Rime of the Ancyent Marinere] &lt;MS&gt;
3

142290-)
In a work by this author, a character accidentally kills the baby she had kidnapped when a carriage turns over. That work includes a scene in which Gino attacks Philip because Philip had come to Italy with Harriet. This author of Where Angels Fear to Tread also wrote a work which sees an engagement with Cecil Vyse broken off so George Emerson can marry Lucy Honeychurch. In another of his novels set in (*) Chandrapore, Ronny Heaslop decides not to marry Adela Quested, who accuses another character of assaulting her in the Marabar caves. For ten points, name this author of A Room with a View, who described the trial of Dr. Aziz in A Passage to India.
Edward Morgan Forster &lt;MS&gt;
3

142328-)
A waiter delivers oranges, banana figs, and hothouse grapes in a poem by this man that describes an “Apeneck” character with “zebra stripes along his jaw”. Another poem includes a “yellow fog” and “yellow smoke” that rub against the window-panes, as well as character who measures out his life with coffee spoons. That character wonders if he (*) dares to eat a peach or disturb the universe in a poem that includes women who “come and go / talking of Michelangelo”. That poem begins, “Let us go then, you and I”. For ten points, name this author of “Sweeney Among the Nightingales” and “The Lovesong of J. Alfred Prufrock”, who claimed “April is the cruelest month” in The Waste Land.
Thomas Stern Eliot [prompt on “Eliot”] &lt;RP&gt;
3

142344-)
A satire of this poem describes how one character “had in mind / the notion of what his whiskers would feel like / on the back of her neck”. The speaker of that poem notes how he “sometimes brings her a bottle of Nuit d’Amour.” This poem’s speaker notes how the world “seems / to lie before us like a land of dreams,” but really has “neither joy, nor love, nor light.” This poem begins by describing how “The (*) sea is calm tonight / the tide is full, the moon lies fair,” and later claims that “Sophocles long ago” heard “the eternal note of sadness” on the Aegean sea. For ten points, name this poem, set in a location where “ignorant armies clash by night,” written by Matthew Arnold.
Dover Beach &lt;MS&gt;
3

142364-)
The main character in this novel is scared that his servant Victor will look at the title object, causing him to call for Mr. Hubbard. The protagonist of this work receives a “little yellow book”, which he buys a dozen copies of. An acquaintance of the protagonist of this work implores him to never marry a woman with (*) straw-colored hair, and after this, the protagonist reveals he is in love with an actress. That friend, Henry Wotton, also must inform the protagonist of the actress Sibyl Vane’s death. The artist Basil Hallward creates the title object, which ages cruelly and horribly, while the protagonist maintains his youth. For ten points, name this only novel by Oscar Wilde.
The Picture of Dorian Gray &lt;GM&gt;
3

142388-)
A poem titled after two of these animals says that they “after mutual salutes/Not only discours’d, but fell to salutes”, that poem is titled “A Dialogue Between Two [of these animals]”, and was written by Andrew Marvell. The protagonist of another work about one of these animals dies after shouting the name “Malabar!” and winning 70,000 pounds in a bet. In another work, the motto of one of these animals is (*) “I will work harder” as well as “Napoleon is always right”, that animal is named Boxer. A D.H. Lawrence novel describes a “rocking” one of these animals. For ten points, name these animals which ride in the Kentucky Derby and neigh.
horses [accepts stallions or mares]
3

142420-)
A character in this work prepares to kill a man he has locked out of a house, but that man enters through a window and beats the first one. Another character in this work escapes from her husband and moves to London; that character is Isabella. The title (*) setting of this work is about four miles from Thrushcross Grange. Near the beginning of this work, Mr. Lockwood has a nightmare in which he sees the ghost of Catherine trying to enter the house, and the next day learns the history of that house from Nelly Dean. For ten points, name this book about Heathcliff, written by Emily Bronte.
Wuthering Heights
3

142438-)
A character in one of this man’s plays correctly assumes the meaning of a “carnal embrace”, and another performs research on the population of nearby birds. That character, Valentine, contemplates that Lord Byron killed Ezra Chater with Hannah, Bernard, and his sister Chloe while helping Thomasina (*) Coverly. This author wrote a play in which two characters meet The Player, who leads the Tragedians in their performances of “The Rape of the Sabine Women” and “The Murder of Gonzago”. That play famously opens with a coin flip game in which one of the two title characters lands on heads ninety-two times. For ten points, name this author of plays such as Arcadia and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
Tom Stoppard &lt;RP&gt;
3

142441-)
The title character of one of this author’s novels is tracked down by the detective Jacques Moran, and that novel is in a trilogy with Malone Dies and The Unnamable. In one of his plays, Nagg and Nell live in trashcans and that play also includes Hamm, who is unable to stand, and Clov, who is unable to sit. In his best known play, one character dances “The Net” after kicking another in the (*) shin, and that work is set around a tree. In that play, Lucky and Pozzo alternate roles between slave and master, and despite reassurance from the boy to Vladimir and Estragon, the title character never arrives. For ten points, name this Irish playwright who wrote Endgame and Waiting for Godot.
Samuel Beckett &lt;RP&gt;
3

142452-)
In this novel, a character is described as belonging to “the coal, the iron, the clay,” because his father was a coal-miner, and another character suggests to that character that he should burn the picture of his wife. The protagonist of this work also carries out an affair with Duncan while visiting Venice, and this work was famously the subject of an (*) obscenity trial because of its crude language and content. In this work, the nurse Mrs. Bolton takes care of Clifford because he is paralyzed from the waist down while the protagonist has an affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. For ten points, name this D.H. Lawrence novel about Constance’s various affairs.
Lady Chatterley’s Lover &lt;MS&gt;
3

142472-)
In a book by this man, a group of people are killed after approaching an object with a white flag, and that group includes the astronomer Ogilvy. Ten “masses of flaming gas” are associated with ten hollow cylinders in that novel by this author, which was adapted as a radio play that supposedly caused mass panic. This author wrote a story in which a character accidentally creates a forest fire that kills (*) Weena, even though the fire was only meant to distract the Morlocks, who, along with the Eloi, are the main humanoid species the narrator encounters in the year 802,701. For ten points, name this British author of The War of the Worlds and The Time Machine.
Herbert George Wells &lt;MS&gt;
3

142492-)
This poem describes a man’s “hanging face, like a devil’s sick of sin,” and was originally written in the Craiglockhart hospital, like many others by its author. The speaker of this poem sees “an ecstasy of fumbling” by men who were (*) “bent double, like old beggars under sacks/knock-kneed, coughing like hags,” and later pictures a man with “blood/come gargling from froth-corrupted lungs.” This poem, which tells its reader not to “tell with such high zest” the title “Old Lie” gets its title from a work by Horace. For ten points, name this poem by Wilfred Owen, whose title means “it is sweet and honorable.”
“Dulce et Decorum est” &lt;MS&gt;
3

142525-)
A work by this author begins with a Euripides quote on the meaning of “True Liberty.” That poem describes the uses and harms of the Licensing Order of 1643, and notes that “he who destroys a good book, kills reason itself.” In another poem, this author asks “Doth God exact day-labor, light denied?” in a poem about his title (*) condition that begins, “When I consider how my light is spent”. This author of Areopagitica and On His Blindness wrote another poem meant to “justify God’s ways to man,” and that poem describes a character who says that it is “Better to reign in Hell, than to serve in heaven.” For ten points, name this poet who described Adam and Eve’s expulsion from heaven in Paradise Lost.
John Milton &lt;MS&gt;
3

142541-)
In this novel, the protagonist’s sister, Mrs. Joe, is killed by her husband’s assistant. During a fight in the water by an escape boat, a character in this novel kills his enemy Arthur Compeyson. At a “Finches of the Grove” meeting in this novel, (*) Drummle makes a toast to Estella, who turns out to be the daughter of the convict Abel Magwitch. In this novel, stopped clocks and a moldy wedding cake can be found in the house of Miss Havisham. For 10 points, name this novel about Pip by Charles Dickens.
Great Expectations
3

142569-)
The son of a nobleman in this play keeps him from committing suicide by leading him over an imaginary cliff. A man in this play who pretends to be a beggar named Poor Tom kills Oswald. In this play, Edmund tries to trick his father, (*) Gloucester, into believing that Edgar is planning to kill him. A character in this play tells her father that she cannot “heave her heart into her mouth,” which makes it seem like she loves her father less than her older sisters do. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which the title king gives his land to Regan and Goneril instead of Cordelia.
King Lear
3

142582-)
One poem of this type urges its reader not to cope with the title condition by going to the Lethe or taking the “ruby grape of Proserpine”. Another of these works addresses the title time as the “season of mists and mellow fruitfulness.” In another poem of this type, the narrator tells the title (*) bird that it is not “born for death.” Another of these poems claims that “Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard / Are sweeter.” For 10 points, name this type of poem by John Keats, examples of which are about a nightingale and a Grecian urn.
Odes [accept more specific answers, like “John Keats’s 1819 Odes”]
3

142594-)
. One character’s breathing is mocked in this work with the phrase “sucks to your ass-mar.” A pair of twins finds a downed fighter pilot in this novel. A pair of glasses, the only means by which to start a fire, are stolen and broken in this novel. Characters in this novel chant “Kill the (*) pig. Cut her throat. Bash her in” while circling around another character. Roger shatters the conch after Piggy is crushed by boulders in this novel. Ralph and Jack struggle for power in, for 10 points, what work by William Golding about a stranded group of British schoolboys on an island?
Lord of the Flies
3

142611-)
While sleepwalking, this character’s husband bends over her and murmurs the words “dead, dead, dead”. This character, whose son Sorrow died in infancy, kills a flock of injured pheasants. Before she is executed, this character begs her husband, who has returned from Brazil, to marry Liza Lu. At (*) Talbothays Dairy, this character becomes friends with Marian, Retty, and Izz. This character stabs Alec for raping and deceiving her, and runs away with Angel Clare. For 10 points, name this “pure woman faithfully presented”, the title character of a novel by Thomas Hardy.
Tess Durbeyfield [or “Tess of D’Urbervilles”]
3

142632-)
In The Time Machine, the time traveler first finds Weena undergoing this process. In a poem by Stevie Smith, the speaker declares that she is “not waving but” performing this title action. This action occurs to Maggie Tulliver in the (*) Mill on the Floss. Rosanna Spearman performs this action after incriminating herself in The Moonstone. In the last line of “The Mermaid” by William Butler Yeats, the speaker declares that even lovers perform this action.  For 10 points name this action which is the cause of death of Ophelia in Hamlet.
drowning [accept obvious equivalents, prompt on “dying” and stuff like that]
3

142636-)
. The title character of this play smacks his wife and calls her a devil after she expresses excitement about returning home. In this play, Gratiano says that Brabantio died of grief due to his daughter’s marriage. A prostitute, (*) Bianca, is angered when Cassio makes her copy the embroidery of another woman’s handkerchief. In the first act of this play, Iago convinces Roderigo that he should save money instead of killing himself. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play where Desdemona is murdered after being accused of cheating on the title “Moor of Venice.”
Othello
3

142638-)
This poem describes how the moon “rains out her beams” causing heaven to overflow. This poem later asks “What objects are the fountains / Of thy happy strain?” and states that “Our sweetest songs are those that tell the saddest thoughts.”  The subject of this poem is said to be “Like a glow-worm golden / In a dell of dew” and “Like a (*) star of heaven, / In the broad daylight.” The title subject is said to be capable of melting the “pale purple” with its flight and able to produce “harmonious madness” with its song. For 10 points, name this poem that opens “Hail to thee, blithe spirit!” by Percy Shelley.
“To a Skylark”
3

142661-)
Komatsu is the editor of a book published in this year that depicts Little People emerging from a dead, blind goat. Tengo and Aomame travel from this year to a similar one that has a “Q” in its name in Haruki Murakami’s longest novel. Mr. Charrington rents out the room atop his shop to two lovers right before (*) Hate Week in this year. O’Brien uses rats to convince an employee of the Ministry of Truth to turn on Julia in this year. For 10 points, name this year in which Winston Smith comes to love Big Brother in a George Orwell novel.
1984 [accept “1Q84” until “Q” is read]
3

142664-)
A character in this play throws the ring he gave to a girl into a fireplace after she throws slippers at him. A central character’s father tours England giving lectures about morality after being left money by a millionaire. A character in this play eventually marries (*) Freddy Eynsford Hill and was the focus of a wager following her time as a flower girl. This play begins in Covent Garden with Colonel Pickering meeting the two main characters. For 10 points, name this play in which Henry Higgins gives speaking lessons to Eliza Doolittle, by George Bernard Shaw.
Pygmalion
3

142684-)
An early line in this work describes people being “hunted down by a dark death-shadow.” J.R.R. Tolkien gave a 1936 lecture defending the literary quality and importance of this work. Some scholars believe that a fratricidal character in this work purposefully gives the protagonist a useless weapon. This work opens by describing the (*) ship burial of Shield Sheafson. Unferth gives the protagonist his sword, Hrunting, to battle a woman under a lake. The title character of this work arrives by ship to help Hrothgar defend his mead hall. For 10 points, name this Old English epic poem in which the title character kills Grendel.
Beowulf
3

142709-)
This poet wrote that “the heart must pause to breathe,” and so he must “go no more a-roving / By the light of the moon.”  In one poem he claims the way to greet an ex-lover after long years is the same way to part; “With silence and tears.” The subject of a poem by him is said to have “A mind at peace with all below” and (*) “A heart whose love is innocent.” That subject is initially described to have “all that’s best of dark and bright / Meet in her aspect and her eyes.” For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet who wrote of a woman who is “like the night” in “She Walks in Beauty.”
George Gordon Noel, Lord Byron
3

142739-)
In the last chapter of this novel, a clock runs an hour and twenty-five minutes fast and a physics lecturer quotes The Mikado. Mike Flynn makes a character in this novel run around with his arms at his sides. The protagonist of this novel dreams of finding his own Mercedes after reading The Count of Monte Cristo. He later attempts to write a poem to (*) “E.C.” after waiting for a tram with her. Father Arnall delivers a sermon that inspires the protagonist of this novel to pursue a life of Christ until he sees a beautiful woman on the seashore. For 10 points, name this novel by James Joyce about the childhood of Stephen Dedalus.
A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man
3

142761-)
He concluded one poem with the lines “And I am dumb to tell the lover’s tomb / How at my sheet goes the same crooked worm.” This poet of “The force that through the green fuse drives the flower” opened one poem describing how in his youth he was as “happy as the grass was green.” The lines “Time held me green and dying / Though I sang in my chains like the sea” conclude his poem (*) “Fern Hill.” He wrote a poem declaring that “Old age should burn and rave at close of day” and told his father to “Rage, rage against the dying of the light.”  For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of “Do not go gentle into that good night.”
Dylan Thomas
3

142770-)
The mother of the protagonist of this novel goes through the chest of a recently deceased, long-term tenant of her inn. In this novel, O’Brien is killed by Israel Hands, who later gets shot after throwing a knife at the protagonist. The protagonist of this novel meets a guy who really wants some (*) cheese after being marooned for three years. Doctor Livesey and Ben Gunn appear in this novel that features the curse of the black spots. A mutiny occurs aboard the Hispaniola in, for 10 points, what novel by Robert Louis Stevenson about Jim Hawkins and Long John Silver?
Treasure Island
3

142788-)
Characters in a play by this author offer to put on a production of “the Rape of the Sabine Women.” A play by this author is set in Sidley Park at two different time periods. A character adapted by this man believes he has killed the Player with a retractable knife. (*) In a play by this man, Hannah and Bernard discover that a drawing of a “hermit” is actually of Septimus Hodge, the tutor of mathematical prodigy Thomasina Coverley. A flipped coin turns up heads a surprising number of times in a play by this man about two characters from Hamlet. For 10 points, name this author of Arcadia and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
Tom Stoppard
3

142818-)
One character in this novel has the habit of playing with his pocket knife and sees an ambulance pass by. Three characters in this work write a letter about emigration to Canada. Another character in this work repeatedly imagines that his dead friend Evans is there with him. That character goes with his wife Lucrezia to see (*) Dr. Bradshaw, who recommends he be sent to a home in the country. During a party, the title character of this novel stares out the window at her neighbor while pondering the suicide of Septimus Smith. For 10 points, name this novel about a day in the life of Clarissa, by Virginia Woolf.
Mrs. Dalloway
3

142837-)
In one work, this character is described as “hasped and hooped and hirpling with pain,” while another work named after him has chapters themed around zodiac signs. In that work, he makes a list of blessings all beginning with the number 1, and he throws apples at a character who comes to kill him. This character claims that he’s “had an accident… So may you all” before possibly jumping off a cliff in a novel where he espouses (*) nihilism; in that retelling, he spares a queen after her husband refuses to protect her, while in another work, Queen Wealtheow rewards a hero for killing him. This protagonist of a John Gardner novel almost ruins Hrothgar by looting Heorot. After his arm is ripped off, his mother comes out to avenge him by fighting the title hero of an Anglo-Saxon epic. For 10 points, name this first antagonist of Beowulf.
Grendel
7

142856-)
A character in this work claims that his greenhouse is made out of “spit and faith” and praises a simple life with tea and books. During breakfast, another character is scandalized by a description of her bread as succulent, saying “You shouldn’t say that word to a married woman!” One man in this play tells the protagonist “Don’t let them tell you what to do!” while another asks him about the “blessed Oliver Plunkett” in an (*) interrogation that includes the question, “Why did the chicken cross the road?” The main character of this play bangs violently on a drum and rapes Lulu after the lights go out during a game of Blind Man’s Bluff. He is then taken away by Goldberg and McCann from an event planned by boarding-house owner Meg. For 10 points, name this Harold Pinter play in which Stanley Webber ostensibly celebrates the title event.
The Birthday Party
7

142877-)
One character with this profession notes that it’s impossible to draw a girl towards you “as if you had just been given a copy of the first, suppressed edition of Madame Bovary,” as there was never such an edition. That character with this profession says he didn’t kill his adulterous wife Ellen; he ended her life by cutting off life support after a suicide attempt left her in a coma. Geoffrey Braithwaite, the narrator of Flaubert’s Parrot, has this profession, as does a man who skips Mr. Turton’s bridge party and yells at a woman after seeing her inside a (*) mosque. That character with this profession accidentally incriminates himself after he picks up a pair of field glasses, and is falsely accused of rape by Adela Quested in E.M. Forster’s A Passage to India. For 10 points, name this profession shared by Aziz and a man who turns into an evil alter ego, Henry Jekyll.
doctor [or physician]
7

142897-)
In one book, a radio producer for the BBC becomes obsessed with these people after being mugged by a woman who hisses a derogatory insult at him. Julian Treslove’s friend Sam is one of these people, and his “question” provides the title of a 2010 novel by Howard Jacobson. One of these people tries to drown herself in the Thames after failing to find her mother and brother, but is rescued by a man loved by Gwendolyn Harleth. Mirah Lapidoth ends up marrying her rescuer, a member of this group who was raised by Sir (*) Hugo Mallinger after his mother’s death. Daniel Deronda caused controversy due to the fact that its protagonist was idealistic and sympathetic, as members of this group were frequently caricatured as sinister or avaricious. For 10 points, name this religious group whose members include Sir Walter Scott’s Rebecca and Shakespeare’s Shylock.
Jewish people [or Jews; accept “The Finkler Question” before “these people” is read]
7

142911-)
One man with this first name is dismayed to realize that the song he’s about to sing splits the tenors into two parts, since he’s been lip syncing. That character tries to fake a bad connection while going “Hallaher” in an imitation of a posh London accent, and pretends he is a reporter named Beesley from the Evening Post. Another character with this name is called a “romantic” who “cannot be cured” by the butterfly collector Mr. (*) Stein; that character is wracked by his guilt over leaving eight hundred Muslim pilgrims to die by abandoning the Patna. A character with this first name struggles to please his absentminded department head Welch, but ends up going to London with Christine Callaghan after being fired for a drunken lecture. For 10 points, give this first name shared by characters referred to as “Lord” and “Lucky” in novels by Joseph Conrad and Kingsley Amis.
Jim [or James]
7

142951-)
James Kincaid calls this work a “poem of frustration,” where Christian doctrine conflicts with an egoistic “pastoral elegy” in which “all nature mourns his departure,” and whose pessimistic tone is shown by the “moaning” of the title object; this is at odds with the traditional reading created by its calm images of (*)“one clear call” and “twilight and evening bell.” The narrator describes “such a tide as moving seems asleep ... when that which drew out from the boundless deep / turns again home” and asks that there “be no sadness of farewell” when he embarks. For 10 points each, name this poem in which the speaker hopes to “see my Pilot face to face” after completing the title action, published last in many collections by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
“Crossing the Bar”
7

142997-)
One of this author’s characters gives his wife a recorded "wedding present" telling her, "Damn you, you little bitch." That character created by this author accidentally gets sulfuric acid on his own face when trying to attack Dallow. An antihero created by this author realizes that wives can’t testify against their husbands and marries a waitress at Snow's restaurant with help from the lawyer Prewitt. In another work by this author, Yusuf uses a love letter to blackmail a man who fakes angina pectoris and loves (*) Helen Rolt; that man can’t confess his adultery when his wife Louise brings him to Communion. This author wrote about Fred Hale’s murder and Ida Arnold’s attempts to find Pinky Brown, and he discussed Catholicism in a novel where Major Scobie commits the mortal sin of suicide. For 10 points, name this author of Brighton Rock and The Heart of the Matter.
Henry Graham Greene
7

143039-)
In a tea-shop, Flora Poste discusses the “demonic vitality” of a man with this surname, whose revisionist biography is being written by Mr. Mybug. One author with this surname created the Glass Town Verdopolis, inhabited by Warner Warner and the Duke of Zamorna. That author with this surname wrote a novel in which the protagonist sees a ghostly nun and debates with Paul Emanuel, who is killed in a tempest after attempting to convert her to Catholicism. In that novel, Dr. John Bretton marries Polly Home instead of (*) Lucy Snowe. Another author with this surname wrote a frame story in which Nelly Dean tells the renter Lockwood about Edgar Linton marrying Catherine Earnshaw, who is still loved by Heathcliff. For 10 points, name this surname shared by the author of Villette and Wuthering Heights, the sisters Emily and Charlotte.
Brontë
7

143107-)
In a 2009 novel, this man claims that he cannot attend a coronation because he cannot afford a new coat, and he later claims that his conscience holds with the majority, which is all the kingdoms of Christendom. That novel ends on the day of this man’s death as its protagonist decides to visit the titular location. In another work about this man, when he is asked to sign a certain document “for fellowship,” he responds by asking (*) Norfolk if he will join him in hell “in fellowship”; this man, Meg’s father, also declares that he would not “cut down every law in England” to defeat the Devil. His jailer and jury foreman are both played by the Common Man, and he is prosecuted by Thomas Cromwell. For 10 points, name this historical figure who is put to death in Robert Bolt’s A Man For All Seasons, a councillor to Henry VIII who imagined an idealized society in Utopia.
Sir Thomas More
7

143129-)
One poem about this type of event notes that “Hope had grown grey hairs,” claiming “I am soft sift / In an hourglass” and telling God to “be adored among men.” Another poem about this type of event asks “What does this vaingloriousness down here?” and discusses a creature that is “grotesque,” “slimed,” and “indifferent.” Another work  is addressed to “Thou mastering me / God! Giver of breath and bread” and dedicated to the (*) “happy memory of five Franciscan Nuns, exiles by the Falk Laws.” Another notes that the event occurred when the “Spinner of the Years/ Said ‘Now!’” and characterizes a “sinister mate” as a “Shape of Ice.” For 10 points, name this type of event which occurs on the Deutschland in a poem by Gerard Manley Hopkins and is the subject of Thomas Hardy’s “The Convergence of the Twain,” a poem about the Titanic.
shipwreck [prompt on wreck]
7

143174-)
One woman with this profession reflects that the archetype of marriage is a couple watching children throwing a ball; that woman later contemplates the leaf pattern on a tablecloth to help finish a job she started ten years ago. A man with this profession has an affair with Blanche, causing her to abandon her husband Dick Stroeve. A character with this job is not taken seriously because of her “puckered-up face” and “Chinese eyes”; it’s not “author,” but that friend of (*) William Bankes is later told by Charles Tansley that women are bad at this job. James and Cam’s mother Mrs. Ramsay inspires Lily Briscoe’s pursuit of this profession in To the Lighthouse, and Charles Strickland moves to Tahiti to pursue it in The Moon and Sixpence. For 10 points, name this occupation of Basil Hallward, an artist who creates the picture of Dorian Gray.
painter [prompt on artist before mention]
7

143210-)
This place titles a novel about a man struggling to write a biography of Pierre Bonnard who explodes at his wife after watching a TV show about elephants on the Serengeti. In that novel with this title, the narrator reminisces about the web-footed Myles and his sister Chloe Grace. In another work titled for this place, a woman begins to cry after seeing one of her sons on a red horse followed by her other son on a gray one. This place that titles a novel about Max Morden by John (*) Banville also titles a play in which a woman mourns that it has taken her husband and all five of her sons. In that play titled for this place, Cathleen and Nora try to hide their brother Michael’s death from their mother Maurya, and Bartley shares his brother’s fate by drowning. For 10 points, name this location, “Riders to” which title a play by John Millington Synge.
the sea [or Riders to the Sea; prompt on “the ocean”]
7

143226-)
In one play by this author, a man hires prostitutes to call on him so he seems popular with women; another woman in that play claims to hate men enough to marry one. In another of this author’s plays, Ben’s brother fakes madness to avoid signing over his inheritance. One of his protagonists makes his lover promise to “continue to like [her] own face” in a scene where they lay out their conditions for marriage, the (*) ‘proviso’ scene. This author wrote about Angelica’s false marriage to Sir Sampson in order to free her lover Valentine from debt.  He also coined the phrase “Music has charms to soothe a savage breast” and a quote paraphrased as “Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.” This author of Love for Love wrote about the lovers Mirabell and Millamant. For 10 points, name this Restoration playwright of The Mourning Bride and The Way of the World.
William Congreve
7

143265-)
This man calls himself a “degenerate modern wretch” in a poem describing his reenactment of Lysander’s trip to see Hero. In addition to Written after swimming from Sestos to Abydos, one poem by this man describes “the Angel of Death spread[ing] his wings on the blast” as “the widows of (*) Ashur are loud in their wail.” One of this poet’s more romantic works describes a person whose hair is described as a “raven tress” and in whom “all that’s best of dark and bright / Meet in her aspect and her eyes.” For 10 points, name this British poet of “The Destruction of Sennacherib” and “She Walks in Beauty.”
: Lord Byron (accept George Gordon Byron)
4

143287-)
The main character of this book is told that “the only horrible thing in the world is ennui” and is stalked by a man who is later accidentally shot by a hunter. One corpse in this work is identified only by the rings it wears, while another body is disposed of by Alan Campbell. The protagonist of this novel (*) dumps a woman after she performs in Romeo and Juliet, causing her to kill herself by drinking acid. This novel’s protagonist leaves Sibyl Vane and commits suicide due to his guilt from stabbing Basil Hallward. For 10 points, name this book in which the title work of art ages in place of its subject, the only novel by Oscar Wilde.
The Picture of Dorian Gray (do not accept synonyms like “A” for “The” or “Portrait” for “Picture”)
4

143312-)
A novella in this genre describes Dr. Raymond and the mysterious Helen Vaughan in The Great God Pan. In a novel in this genre, Conrad is crushed by a gigantic helmet and the villainous Manfred becomes lord of the title location. Horace Walpole’s The Castle of Otranto (*) was written in the Gothic style, a precursor to this genre. A novel in this genre opens with a letter from Robert Walton and is subtitled “The Modern Prometheus,” while in another novel in this genre Jonathan Harker works with Van Helsing to kill the title monster. For 10 points, give this genre of books like Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein and Bram Stoker’s Dracula.
horror (accept Gothic before mentioned; anti-prompt (ask for less specific) on subgenres like “ghost story,” “supernatural,” or “monster (and variants)” if they don’t mention horror already)
4

143315-)
A character created by this writer attempts to woo Kastril’s sister Dame Pliant and tells Drugger he can meet the “Queen of Fairy.” That character created by this author works with the prostitute Doll Common and another character named Subtle. After his master flees a (*) plague, Jeremy pretends to be Captain Face in a play by this man to trick Epicure Mammon into believing he has the philosopher’s stone. In another play by this man, the title character pretends to be dying to trick three people seeking his fortune. For 10 points, name this British playwright, the author of The Alchemist and Volpone.
Ben Jonson Bonuses
4

143324-)
After one character in this play stuffs chocolates into another’s mouth, he eats half to prove they aren’t poisoned. One character in this play is required to lecture for the Wannafeller Moral Reform World League after being called an “original moralist” as a joke. After being asked about a walk in the park in this play, a woman responds (*) “Not bloody likely!”; that same woman later threatens to marry Freddy Hills. Colonel Pickering makes a bet with a phonetics professor in this play that he can reform a flower girl’s accent. For 10 points, name this play about Eliza Doolittle’s mentorship by Henry Higgins, a work of George Bernard Shaw.
Pygmalion
4

143345-)
In one of these poems by this author the speaker describes three figures “in placid sandals” and “white robes” that include Ambition, Love, and Poesy. In addition to that poem on the subject of laziness, another of these poems by this author exclaims to a “dryad of the trees” that (*) “Thou wast not born for death” and asks “Do I wake or sleep?” The most famous of these poems by this author calls the title object an “Attic shape” and a “still unravish’d bride of quietness,” and declares “Beauty is truth, truth beauty.” For 10 points, name this group of poems by a single poet that includes ones “on Indolence,” “to a Nightingale,” and “on a Grecian Urn.”
odes by John Keats (prompt on partial answer; accept John Keats’s “Great” Odes of 1819; anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on “Ode on Indolence”; or “Ode to a Nightingale”; or “Ode on a Grecian Urn”)
4

143355-)
This novel’s narrator encounters two women knitting black yarn while applying to take over a job for the Danish Fresleven that had been recommended by his aunt. One character in this novel sees a painting of a woman holding a torch while waiting for a shipment of (*) rivets; that character also narrates the novel Lord Jim. The narrator of this novel reads a report stating “Exterminate all the brutes!” that was written by an employee of “The Company” who dies aboard a steamship saying, “The horror! The horror!” The ivory trader Kurtz is encountered by Marlow as he explores the Congo in this novel. For 10 points, name this novel by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness (do not accept “A Heart of Darkness” or “The Heart of Darkness”)
4

143360-)
A “Project” centering on this author has commissioned authors like Alexander McCall-Smith to rewrite this author’s novels. A center dedicated to this author is located in Bath, in which this author also set a novel in which Anne Elliot ultimately marries Captain Frederick (*) Wentworth. This author wrote a novel in which the owner of Pemberley bribes George Wickham to marry after he disgracefully elopes with Lydia. This author’s most famous novel begins “It is a truth universally acknowledged [...]” and ends with Darcy’s marriage to Elizabeth Bennet. For 10 points, name this author of Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen (the novel with Anne Elliot is Persuasion)
4

143380-)
One of this man’s poems states that “[t]he Emperor's drunken soldiery are abed” and describes a floating “superhuman” shade. Other than “Byzantium,” this author wrote about a cabin of “ of clay and wattles made” with “Nine bean-rows” and a “a hive for the honey-bee” in “The Lake Isle of (*) Innisfree.” One of this man’s poems claims that “Whatever is begotten, born, and dies” and “That is no country for old men.” This man’s most famous poem contains dark omens like “Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world” and “Things fall apart; the centre cannot hold.” For 10 points, name this poet who wrote “Sailing to Byzantium” and “The Second Coming.”
W(illiam) B(utler) Yeats
4

143399-)
In one book this character assists John Douglas, who is being hunted by a secret society, and in another book he learns that Mary Morstan has begun receiving pearls shortly after Major Sholto died. This protagonist of The Valley of Fear and The (*) Sign of the Four discovers that a gigantic animal has been painted with phosphorus in one novel, and he is outwitted in “A Scandal in Bohemia” by Irene Adler. This protagonist of The Hound of the Baskervilles appeared to die in a fight with Professor Moriarty, and he lives at 221B Baker Street with Doctor Watson. For 10 points, name this detective created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Sherlock Holmes (accept either or both names) Bonuses
4

143405-)
Annie Finch wrote a response to this poem whose speaker states, “no skeleton can pen a verse!” and claims not to be a “bird of prey.” This poem describes rolling “our sweetness up into one ball” and mentions an event may not occur (*) “till the conversion of the Jews.” The speaker of this poem describes his “vegetable love” and calls the grave a “fine and private place,” although “none, I think, do there embrace.” The verse “Had we but world enough, and time” begins--for 10 points--what poem encouraging the speaker’s lover to respond to him, written by Andrew Marvell?
“To His Coy Mistress”
4

143424-)
Two women in this play give their husbands rings that those husbands must never give away, which the husbands naturally give away. One character in this play exclaims, “My daughter! My ducats [“duck-its”]!” after his daughter Jessica elopes with Lorenzo, and at a later time asks if a (*) wronged person is not allowed to have revenge. Bassanio correctly picks a casket of lead in this play to marry a character who later disguises herself as a lawyer and gives the “quality of mercy” speech. In this play Portia helps rescue Antonio, who owes a pound of flesh to a moneylender. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play that includes Shylock the Jew.
The Merchant of Venice
4

143481-)
Near the end of this novel, Pete introduces the protagonist to his wife Georgina. After entering a cottage with the sign “HOME,” several characters in this novel encounter the writer F. Alexander. The protagonist of this novel is overseen by P.R. Deltoid, and after being subjected to the (*) Ludovico technique, suffers whenever he hears Beethoven being played. The protagonist of this novel speaks Nadsat, frequents the Korova Milk Bar and engages in sadistic “ultraviolence” with his “droogs.” For 10 points, name this dystopian novel about the violent Alex written by Anthony Burgess.
A Clockwork Orange
4

143485-)
One character in this novel has a dream that he is in a sinking ship with his mother and sister, and is told by another character “We shall meet in the place where there is no darkness.” Mr. Charrington sells the protagonist of this book a (*) pink coral paperweight. A book by Emmanuel Goldstein within this book describes how the Middle repeatedly overthrow the High with the Low’s Help. The protagonist of this book exclaims “Do it to Julia!” after being threatened with a cage of rats by O’Brien in Room 101. For 10 points, name this novel in which Winston Smith begrudgingly admits he loves Big Brother.
1984 (or Nineteen Eighty-Four)
4

143516-)
One poem by this author describes a gnome named Umbriel who ventures into the Cave of Spleen as well as a sylph named Ariel who protects the girl Belinda. This writer crowned Colley Cibber as the “King of Dunces” in a poem celebrating the goddess (*) Dulness. This writer coined the quotations “a little learning is a dangerous thing” and “to err is human; to forgive divine,” in addition to a poem describing the theft of some hair written in the style of a mock heroic epic. For 10 points, name this English satirist who wrote essays “on Man” and “on Criticism,” as well as The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope (Ed’s note: “a pope interred…”)
4

143540-)
In one poem in this collection, the speaker asks to be reminded of “those who are now examinate” and then to “gather the north flowers to complete the south.” The first of these poems remembers how a (*) Greek poet “had sung / Of the sweet years,” and they were disguised as translations of Bosnian poetry. The speaker of one poem in this collection asserts she will do an action “to the depth and breadth and height my soul can reach,” while in another poem she asks the addressee to “call me by my pet-name!” For 10 points, name this collection of poems that includes “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways,” by Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
Sonnets from the Portuguese
4

143552-)
When this object first appears, one character reminisces about a similar object, remembering how it was placed on a “garden wall” and how his auntie “mooed like a cow.” One character lays this thing “with great care in the grass” after receiving no assent from a group and declaring he won’t (*) play anymore. This object is crushed by a boulder that also kills the wearer of a similarly thematic pair of glasses. The holder of this object is permitted to speak, and it’s first used shortly after an airplane crash to call a meeting of schoolboys by Ralph and Piggy. For 10 points, name this beach object that symbolizes order in William Golding’s The Lord of the Flies.
the conch from The Lord of the Flies (or the shell)
4

143565-)
A passage in this poem paraphrases from Julius Caesar and describes “Between the idea / And the reality.” It borrows from the Lord’s Prayer for the stuttering “For Thine is / Life is / For Thine is the,” and images in this poem of (*) “Shape without form, shade without colour” and “Eyes I dare not meet in dreams” come from The Inferno. Phrases in it like “A Penny for the Old Guy” and “headpiece filled with straw” reference Guy Fawkes Day. This poem heavily references Heart of Darkness, as in the epigraph “Mistah Kurtz--he dead.” For 10 points, name this T.S. Eliot poem concluding, “This is the way the world ends / Not with a bang but a whimper.”
“The Hollow Men”
4

143577-)
This author created Mrs. Oliver, an author who frequently relies on her “feminine intuition.” This author’s first novel was The Mysterious Affair at Styles, which introduced a character who often worked with Japp. One of this author’s works is narrated by Dr. James Sheppard, the (*) killer of Roger Ackroyd, and this author created an elderly amateur detective named Miss Marple. In one of this author’s novels, the residents of Soldier Island are killed one by one, and in another Hercule Poirot deduces that everyone on the title transport is complicit. For 10 points, name this author of And Then There Were None and Murder On the Orient Express.
Dame Agatha (Mary Clarissa) Christie (or Agatha Miller; accept Mary Westmacott before mention; Ed’s note: fun fact: Christie once disappeared for 10 days. To this day, no one but her knows what happened. #strangerthanfiction)
4

143611-)
Description acceptable. Upon arriving at this location, one man imagines building a utopia here, prompting another to joke “Long live Gonzalo!” One character threatens to have “peopled” this place with himself; that character later says this place is “full of noises, sounds, and sweet airs,” describing how he (*) “cried to dream again.” The witch Sycorax formerly lived in this location, leaving behind the monstrous Caliban and the spirit Ariel. Several Italian nobles including Alonso and Ferdinand arrive at this place after Prospero uses his magic to cause a shipwreck. For 10 points, describe this unnamed water-isolated location, the setting for a Shakespeare play titled after a vicious storm.
the island from The Tempest (accept any answer that mentions “Tempest” and an island, basically; prompt on partial answer; accept synonyms for island like isle)
4

143643-)
Erskine Childers’s book The Riddle of the Sands established the modern form of a genre named for this profession. The Karla Trilogy centered on a member of this profession named George Smiley, and James Wormold lies about sketches of (*) vacuum parts while working this profession in a Havana-set novel written by Graham Greene. John le Carré wrote novels titled after these people with a “Tinker Tailor [and] Soldier” and “[Coming] In From the Cold.” The most famous member of this profession appeared in the books Casino Royale and Goldfinger. For 10 points, give this profession of Ian Fleming creation James Bond.
spy (accept synonyms like intelligence officer or secret agent or espionage agent; prompt on things like government agent)
4

143648-)
Description acceptable. These characters are fond of “quiting” [rhymes with “fighting”] each other, such as when one mentions how his rival shares a profession with a jerk named Symkyn. One of these characters is told his efforts are “not worth a turd,” and is a representation of the (*) author himself. Jankyn is the most recent of the five husbands of one of these people. These people meet at the Tabard Inn, where the Host offers to judge a storytelling contest between them. For 10 points, name these people such as the Reeve, Miller, and Wife of Bath, who travel to Canterbury in a collection by Geoffrey Chaucer.
the pilgrims from The Canterbury Tales (accept lenient equivalents for pilgrims like travellers; accept storytellers and equivalents; prompt on things like “the characters in The Canterbury Tales;” reverse-prompt [ask for less specific] on specific pilgrims; accept The Miller and the Reeve together before “not worth a turd”)
4

143672-)
This character marries a woman whose father had conspired with Sholto and Small over a stolen treasure, and in his first appearance this character is introduced by Stamford to a man working on hemoglobin experiments. This man proposes to (*) Mary Morstan at the end of The Sign of the Four, and he resolves to start keeping journals after noting that Lestrade and Gregson were given credit at the end of A Study in Scarlet. This character was injured in the Second Afghan War before returning to Britain and sharing an apartment at 221B Baker Street. For 10 points, name this frequent companion to the detective Sherlock Holmes.
Dr. John H. Watson Bonuses
4

143685-)
After being told he “hate[s] everybody,” this character accuses another of wilfully “misunderstand[ing] them.” This character’s love interest gains a “more gentle sensation” towards him while gazing at his portrait after Mrs. Reynolds shows her around his house at (*) Pemberley. His sister Georgiana is seduced by the dissolute soldier Wickham. This character first appears with his friend Bingley at a ball, and he proposes marriage at the end of a novel that starts, “it is a truth universally acknowledged […]” For 10 points, name this main love interest of Elizabeth Bennet in Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice.
Fitzwilliam Darcy (accept either or both underlined portions; or Mr. Darcy)
4

143695-)
One of this writer’s plays repeats itself, centers on a “chorus” of three people and funeral urns, and was literally titled Play. One of this writer’s characters relishes in the word “spool” while eating a lot of bananas and listening to himself at (*) ages 39 and 20, and he wrote a play which Hamm’s parents spend living in a trashcan. This playwright wrote Krapp’s Last Tape and Endgame, and in one of his plays the protagonists encounter Pozzo leading Lucky on a leash. In his most famous play, Vladimir and Estragon spend two days hoping the title character will show up, though he never does. For 10 points, name this Irish author of Waiting for Godot.
Samuel (Barclay) Beckett
4

143729-)
These creatures are split into types like “tree-trimming” and “sitting” in Maxine Hong Kingston’s The Woman Warrior, which is subtitled for a “Girlhood Among [them].” Oswald Althing asks to be shot at the end of a Henrik Ibsen play (*) named for them, and one of these beings kills the boy Miles in Henry James’ The Turn of the Screw. In a book divided into “staves” and ending with dinner at the Cratchit home, Jacob Marley warns his business partner about being visited by three of these creatures. For 10 points, name these supernatural creatures that haunt Ebenezer Scrooge in Charles Dickens’ A Christmas Carol.
ghosts (accept Gengangere after “Oswald;” prompt on “spirits” or “revenants”)
4

143734-)
The narrator of one of this author’s poems calls the title figure “squidgy-nosed” and “Lazarushian-leather.” Another of his poems describes having “all men count with you, but none too much,” and meeting with the “two imposters” (*) “Triumph and Disaster.” After the narrator of one his poems is saved by an Indian bhisti, or water-bearer, he calls him a “better man,” and he advised a certain group of people to “send forth the best ye breed” in an overtly imperialist poem. For 10 points, name this British author of poems like “Gunga Din, “The White Man’s Burden,” and “If--”.
(Joseph) Rudyard Kipling
4

143738-)
This poem’s author added (exactly) three notes describing borrowing of phrases from Dante and Petrarch. This poem’s original ending describes a “silent Tenour of thy Doom” instead of a “Youth to Fortune and Fame unknown” written in an “Epitaph” for the speaker himself. This poem’s second section imagines a (*) “hoary-headed swain” guiding a “kindred spirit” to the speaker’s grave. Numerous quotable lines from this poem include “Far from the madding crowd,” “The paths of glory lead but to the grave,” and “The curfew tolls the knell of parting day.” For 10 points, name this poem set in a cemetery, an “elegy” by Thomas Gray.
“Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”
4

143757-)
In one of this author’s plays, Dumby asserts that “getting what one wants” is the worse of two tragedies and Cecil Graham asks “What is a cynic?” In that play by this author, the protagonist nearly elopes with Lord Darlington, leading (*) her mother Mrs Erlynne to falsely claim to have left the title item. One of this author’s plays describes an imaginary cousin named “Bunbury,” as well as a character discovered as a baby in a handbag at Victoria Station. In that play by this author, Jack and Algernon both pretend to have the title name. For 10 points, name this playwright of Lady Windermere’s Fan and The Importance of Being Earnest.
Oscar Wilde
4

143790-)
This author divided his books into categories like “novels of ingenuity” or “novels of character and environment,” which includes his book The Woodlanders. In one of his novels, the protagonist’s partner abandons him for Philotson while he’s attempting to become a scholar Christminister. In that novel by this author, the note (*) “Done because we are too menny” is left before Little Father Time hangs himself. In another of this author’s novels, the protagonist is arrested at Stonehenge after stabbing Alec and leaving Angel Clare. For 10 points, name this author of Wessex novels like Jude the Obscure and Tess of the D’Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
4

143800-)
This poet compared exploring his lover’s body to the exploration of America in “To His Mistress Going to Bed.” One poem by this man describes “virtuous men [who] pass mildly away” and asserts, “Thy (*) firmness makes my circle just.” This poet denied that a title entity was “mighty and dreadful,” and he noted how the “two bloods” of him and his lover mingle after being “suck’d” by the title insect. One of this poet’s Meditations contains the phrase “no man is an island.” For 10 points, name this Metaphysical poet of “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning,” “The Flea,” and the Holy Sonnet “Death be not proud.”
John Donne
4

143802-)
A Ray Bradbury story titled after one of these creatures reveals that it’s just a steam engine. A monk plays a joke by erecting a sign saying one of these creatures will appear in a story titled after one of these creatures and “A Potter’s Tale” that was written by Akutagawa. The Lair of a (*) “White” one of these creatures is described in a Bram Stoker book, and the third act of Beowulf depicts his ultimate death while battling one. The discovery of the Arkenstone follows an encounter with one in the Lonely Mountain by Bilbo Baggins in The Hobbit. For 10 points, name these fictitious creatures exemplified by Smaug, who just love to hoard treasure.
dragons (prompt on things like reptiles or serpents or worms or wyverns, but outright accept worm after “Lair” is read)
4

143831-)
In this book, a proto-computer called the Engine is built by the Projectors, who also scheme to turn ice into gunpowder. This novel’s main character is given as a pet to a girl named Glumdalclitch and asks to be excused from the custom of stepping on a cross while in (*) Japan. This book’s title character is called a “Yahoo” by a species of super-intelligent horses. This novel describes a war over the best way to crack an egg among the Endians, and its title character towers over a race of six-inch tall people in Lilliput. For 10 points, name this novel in which a man named Lemuel travels to strange lands, written by Jonathan Swift.
Gulliver’s Travels (or Travels into Several Remote Nations of the World. In Four Parts. By Lemuel Gulliver, First a Surgeon , and then a Captain of Several Ships)
4

143854-)
14. One of this man’s poems begins “On either side of the river lie / Long fields of barley and rye” before describing the plight of a woman who must weave without looking at the world around her.  Another of his works ends by noting that “though much is taken, much abides” followed by an oath to “strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.” This poet of “The (*) Lady of Shalott” and “Ulysses” claimed in another poem that, “Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never to have loved at all.” This author of In Memoriam A.H.H. wrote a work in which a group rides into “the valley of death.” For ten points, name this British poet of “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
Alfred, Lord Tennyson &lt;KT&gt;
3

143881-)
19. This work’s antagonist is shot after saving a drowning girl, and before that learns of the love between Felix and the Turkish Safie. Alphonse, the father of the protagonist, dies soon after his son’s wedding night, and Justine Moritz is framed for the murder of William. The frame story of this novel is told in a series of letters written to Margaret Saville by her brother, (*) ship captain Robert Walton. The protagonist of this novel is friends with Henry Clerval, and marries Elizabeth Lavenza. For ten points, identify this Mary Shelley novel in which Victor, the title scientist, creates a monster in the lab.
Frankenstein &lt;MS&gt;
3

143890-)
6. Enoch Soames sells his soul to be able to do this action, and the hunter Eckels steps on a butterfly after performing this action in Bradbury’s “A Sound of Thunder.” In a novel whose protagonist performs this action after being hit on the head, he becomes the Boss after predicting an eclipse, and another person who does this meets the (*) Eloi and the Morlocks. Hank Morgan does it in A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur’s Court, and Ebeneezer Scrooge does it with the assistance of ghosts. For ten points, identify this action which the Traveller builds a machine to do in an H.G. Wells novel.
time travel (accept equivalents, also accept an answer specific to either direction like going back in time) &lt;MS&gt;
3

143898-)
14. In one of this author’s novels, Lady Russell convinces the protagonist to break off her engagement with Frederick Wentworth. In another, Mr. Yates encourages a production of the play Lovers’ Vows while Thomas Bertram is away. In addition to writing about Anne Elliot in (*) Persuasion, this author wrote a book in which John Willoughby hits on a woman who sprains her ankle in the rain, Marianne Dashwood. This author’s most famous work sees clergyman William Collins marry Charlotte Lucas, and Georgiana helps her brother Fitzwilliam Darcy end up with Elizabeth Bennet. For ten points, name this author of Sense and Sensibility and Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen &lt;MS&gt;
3

143919-)
One character in this novel discovers a boy kept hidden from her on the way to Penistone Crags, whom she denies kinship to until she learns that one can have multiple cousins. Servants in this novel include Joseph and Zillah, and this novel’s frame story is about Lockwood, a visitor to (*) Thrushcross Grange, who is told a story by Nelly Dean. This novel’s antagonist, found on the streets of Liverpool, marries Isabella as revenge for her brother, Edgar Linton, marrying his actual love interest. For ten points, identify this novel about the love between Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff, the only published novel of Emily Bronte.
Wuthering Heights
3

143923-)
17. The protagonist of this poem wears a “necktie rich and modest,” “asserted by a simple pin.” This poem’s epigraph is from The Divine Comedy, when Guido confesses his sins thinking Dante will never return to write of them. Its narrator descends the stairs with a “bald spot in [his] hair.” The narrator has lived a boring life, measured out “with coffee spoons,” mostly because, since he is “not (*) Prince Hamlet, nor meant to be,” he does not dare “disturb the Universe.” Women in this poem “come and go, talking of Michelangelo.” For ten points, identify this poem beginning “Let us go then, you and I”, written by T.S. Eliot.
“The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” (also accept "Prufrock") &lt;MS&gt;
3

143935-)
7. One work inspired by this poem mentions the “always coming on / The always rising of the night.” This poem’s narrator would not mind two hundred years “to adore each breast” and thirty thousand years “for the rest,” before noting that “the grave’s a fine and private place.” This poem’s speaker’s (*) “vegetable love” would “grow vaster than Empires” if it weren’t for the coming “deserts of vast eternity” and “time’s winged chariot hurrying near.” For ten points, identify this metaphysical poem beginning “Had we but world enough, and time,” in which Andrew Marvell tries to get a reluctant woman to sleep with him.
“To His Coy Mistress” &lt;MS&gt;
3

143950-)
22. A work often paired with this one mentions the title figure’s “clothing of delight” and “tender voice” after asking “does thou know who made thee?” This poem’s narrator wonders if “stars threw down their spears / and watered heaven with their tears” before asking “did he who made the (*) lamb make thee?” This poem asks “what the hammer? what the chain?” produced the title figure, whose “fearful symmetry” was surely framed by some “immortal eye.” For ten points, identify this William Blake poem whose title animal is “burning bright / in the forests of the night.”
“The Tyger” &lt;MS&gt;  BONUSES
3

143964-)
14. A character in this novel is noticed to be no longer in Chess Club, leading the protagonist to suspect the death of the dictionary-writing Syme. This novel’s protagonist viewed sleeping with his wife as a duty and almost pushed her off a cliff before leaving her, and he makes note of his varicose veins. One book within this book discusses the saying (*) “War is Peace,” and was written by the man reviled during the Hate Week, Emmanuel Goldstein. This novel’s protagonist is convinced by O’Brien to betray Julia after facing rats in Room 101. For ten points, identify this novel in which Winston Smith winds up loving Big Brother, written by George Orwell.
1984 &lt;MiP&gt;
3

143984-)
12. One of this author’s novels features the discussion of a flowered carpet, which ends with Gradgrind chanting “fact, fact, fact!”.  In another of his works, Nell Trent dies after Daniel Quilp takes possession of the title locale from her gambling grandfather.  In addition to writing (*) Hard Times and The Old Curiosity Shop, this author wrote a novel whose protagonist befriends convict Abel Magwich and loves Estella, the ward of Miss Havisham. For ten points, name this English author who detailed the life of the orphan “Pip” in Great Expectations.
Charles Dickens &lt;MiP&gt;
3

144013-)
19. This novel’s protagonist goes to an opium den after leaving Lady Narborough’s party early. The central object of this novel is observed to be “sweating with blood” after the protagonist smells the nitric acid used by chemist Alan Campbell to dispose of a body. This novel’s protagonist is responsible for the suicide of actress (*) Sibyl Vane, and led down the road of debauchery by a “little yellow book” given to him by Henry Wotton. For ten points, identify this novel in which a portrait painted by Basil Hallward ages instead of the title character, a work by Oscar Wilde.
The Picture of Dorian Gray &lt;MS&gt;
3

144017-)
1. In one of this author’s plays, the distiller Bodger becomes Lord Saxmundham and promises to give five thousand pounds to charity. Sergius Saranoff is engaged to this author’s character Raina Petkoff, though she ultimately marries the chocolate-carrying Bluntschli. In another of his plays, the title character is engaged to Adolphus Cusins and the daughter of arms manufacturer Andrew (*) Undershaft. In the most famous play by this author of Arms and the Man, Colonel Pickering and Henry Higgins to bet about whether Eliza Doolittle’s Cockney accent is removable. For ten points, identify this British playwright of Major Barbara and Pygmalion.
George Bernard Shaw &lt;MS&gt;
3

144059-)
21. In one of his works, the speaker urges to “grow old along with me!” since the “best is yet to be”, while the speaker of another of his poems initially thinks that the “hoary cripple, with malicious eye” had “lied in every word.” This poet of “Rabbi Ben Ezra” wrote a poem which states, “You need not clap your torches to my face,” part of his collection (*) Men and Women. In addition to “Childe Roland to the Dark Tower Came” and “Fra Lippo Lippi”, this author wrote a poem which tells of a woman whose heart was “too soon made glad” and whose portrait was painted by Fra Pandolf. For ten points, name this English author and husband of poet Elizabeth who wrote “My Last Duchess”.
Robert Browning &lt;KT&gt;
3

144074-)
14. One character in this novel breaks off his engagement to Blanche Ingram, and another has the word “Resurgam” placed on her tombstone after dying of consumption. That character, Helen Burns, attended the Brocklehurst-run Lowood school with this novel’s protagonist, who rejects (*) St. John Rivers and a chance to be a missionary’s wife in India after hearing her former love call her name. That man had been secretly married to the mad Bertha Mason, who burns down Thornfield Hall. For ten points, identify this novel whose protagonist eventually marries Rochester, the most famous work of Charlotte Bronte.
Jane Eyre &lt;MS&gt;
3

144082-)
22. In one of this author’s works, a handkerchief which seemingly has an H on it actually has an N, and a scarlet kimono suddenly appears in the protagonist’s luggage. That novel’s character of Cassetti was formerly known as Ratchett, when he kidnapped Daisy Armstrong. In another of this author’s novels, nine murderers and Justice Wargrave are lured to  (*) Soldier Island, where they are killed one by one, while another of her works sees a man stabbed twelve times on a train, a mystery solved by Hercule Poirot. For ten points, identify this author of detective fiction like Murder on the Orient Express and And Then There Were None.
Agatha Christie &lt;CC&gt;  BONUSES
3

144101-)
19. One of this author’s poems, an “Agony in Eight Fits,” sees the Bellman claim “what I tell you three times is true,” and the Baker vanish, for the title creature “was a Boojum, you see.” In another of his poems, a boy stands in “uffish thought” “by the Tumtum tree” before “galumphing back” with the head of the title creature, slain with a vorpal blade. In the most famous novel by this author of “The (*) Hunting of the Snark” and “Jabberwocky,” the protagonist plays croquet with the Queen of Hearts and meets the Mad Hatter and the always-grinning Cheshire Cat. For ten points, name this author of Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland.
Lewis Carroll (or Charles Lutwidge Dodgson) &lt;MS&gt;
3

144117-)
13. One figure in this novel is described as having “Gorgon groups of tentacles” and kills the astronomer Ogilvy. This novel’s narrator is told by an artilleryman about an object between his location and Leatherhead, and that narrator later hides in a cellar after a loud curate alerts the enemy of his location. Red weed spreads through areas in this novel which have been cleared by (*) poisonous black smoke and heat-rays, and this novel’s antagonists are finally killed by bacteria they never developed a resistance to. For ten points, identify this H.G. Wells novel in which the Earth is attacked by Martian tripods.
The War of the Worlds &lt;MS&gt;
3

144143-)
17. In one of this author’s works, Clara Durrant never develops a relationship with the title man, whose lovers include Florinda and Fanny Elmer. In another work, the protagonist is briefly the lover of Queen Elizabeth and the Russian Sasha, before discovering that after a long sleep he has changed genders. This author of (*)Jacob’s Room and Orlando wrote a work in which Septimus Smith commits suicide after the title character’s dinner party, and one in which Lily Briscoe and the Ramsay family take a trip to the title location. For ten points, name this English author of Mrs. Dalloway and To the Lighthouse.
Adeline Virginia Woolf &lt;KT&gt;
3

144162-)
14. The prologue to this work notes that it begins after the month of March has “bathed every vein in...liquor.” In one part of this work, a demon takes a frying pan to hell after the old lady who owned it damns a lying summoner. The innkeeper Harry Bailey frequently interrupts the main characters, and another part of this work sees the carpenter John sleep in one of three (*) tubs hoisted above the ground while Nicholas has an affair with Alison. What women desire is the subject of the Wife of Bath’s narrative in this work. For ten points, identify this work in which a number of pilgrims have a story-telling contest, written by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales &lt;MS&gt;
3

144178-)
8. One character in this play mentions that a lion is not really a lion nor is a sword really a sword, and it sees one character pretend to be a wall and another the moonlight. This play’s Peter Quince leads the “six mechanicals” in a production of Pyramus and Thisbe at the wedding of (*)Theseus and Hippolyta. This play’s character Nick Bottom is given a donkey’s head by Puck, the mischievous servant of the fairy monarchs Titania and Oberon. For ten points, identify this Shakespeare play which sees a double wedding of Lysander and Hermia and Helena and Demetrius.
A Midsummer Night’s Dream &lt;MS&gt;
3

144199-)
This poem describes “Five miles meandering with a mazy motion” and a place “haunted by woman wailing for her demon-lover!” The composition of this poem was interrupted by a person from Porlock. The speaker of this poem envisions encountering a “damsel with a dulcimer” “singing of Mount Abora” who turns out to be “an (*) Abyssinian maid.” The title character of this poem earlier hears “Ancestral voices prophesying war!” and describes “caverns measureless to man” where there is the sacred river, Alph. For 10 points, name this poem that tells of the title character’s “stately pleasure dome” in Xanadu by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
“Kubla Khan: Or, A Vision in a Dream. A Fragment.” &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144217-)
A poem by this author describes feeling “like some watcher of the skies” and later imagines Cortez standing “upon a peak in Darien” while staring at the Pacific Ocean. One of his poems describes “the sad heart of Ruth” as she stood “amid the alien corn.” This poet of wrote about the lovers Madeline and Porphyro in “The (*) Eve of St. Agnes.” This author wrote a poem which begins “Thou still-unravish’d bride of quietness” and states “Beauty is truth, truth beauty.” For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of “On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer,” “Ode to a Nightingale,” and “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
John Keats &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144233-)
A doctor in this novel notes that “changes take place inside” and measures the protagonist’s skull shortly after the protagonist sees women knitting black wool in the waiting room. Characters in this work include a man who was killed in a fight over hens and a Russian trader that reminds the narrator of a harlequin. In this novel, a (*) pamphlet about the suppression of savage customs contains the advice “exterminate all the brutes!” The protagonist of this novella tells a woman that her fiancée’s last words were her name instead of “The horror! The horror!” For 10 points, name this novella in which Marlow travels to the Congo to find Kurtz, by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144245-)
A sequel to this poem describes a search “for the Master-singer who had crowned them all in his song” and that poem is by Rudyard Kipling. This poem asks “Was there a man dismayed?” and repeats the phrases “All the world wondered” and “Volley’d and thunder’d.” This poem describes its setting as “the (*) jaws of Death” and “the mouth of hell.” The speaker of this poem claims that “Someone had blunder’d” but the title group didn’t care because “Theirs not to reason why, Theirs but to do and die” during the Battle of Balaclava. For 10 points, name this poem about the ill-fated ride of six hundred soldiers in the Crimean War by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
“The Charge of the Light Brigade” &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144256-)
In this novel, Percival gets sand in his eye after his sandcastle is destroyed by two other characters. A character with a mulberry-colored mark on his face goes missing during a fire in this novel, which is set during an unnamed war against “the reds.” An unseen dogfight in this novel results in a parachutist getting stuck in a tree and casting a shadow that (*) looks like a giant ape. Many characters in this novel live at a place called Castle Rock. A pig’s head appears to speak to Simon in this novel, in which a conch shell is destroyed when a boulder hits and kills Piggy. For 10 points, name this work about Jack and Ralph struggling to lead a group of schoolboys stranded on an island written by William Golding.
Lord of the Flies &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144261-)
Locations in this poem include the Humber and Ganges rivers and “Deserts of vast eternity.” In this poem, the speaker considers the grave to be “a fine and private place,” although he “thinks none do there embrace.” The speaker of this poem assigns lengths of time to praise the body parts of his lover including (*) “Two hundred to adore each breast.” The addressee could refuse this poem’s speaker “Till the conversion of the Jews” even though he hears “Time’s winged chariot hurrying near.” This poem opens with the line “had we but world enough and time.” For 10 points, name this poem by Andrew Marvell.
“To His Coy Mistress” &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144298-)
Two poems by this author tell the story of a little girl named Lyca getting lost and then found. This author wrote another poem that asks “What the Hammer? What the chain?” and appears in a collection including the poems “The Clod and the Pebble,” “Holy Thursday,” and “The (*) Chimney-Sweeper.” One of this author’ poems repeats the question “Dost thou know who made thee?” This author asks, “What immortal hand or eye, / Could frame thy fearful symmetry?” to a creature “burning bright.” For 10 points, name this poet whose “The Tyger” is part of his collection Songs of Innocence and Experience.
William Blake &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144314-)
A poem by this author asks “O, wilt thou therefore rise from me?” at the title time of day while another poem compares lovers lying in bed to “sepulchral statues.” This poet of “Break of Day” and “The Ecstasy” wrote a poem that begins by stating “For God’s sake hold your tongue, and let me love.” Another poem by this author states “thy firmness makes my circle just” after comparing souls to (*) compasses and commands “So let us melt, and make no noise.” A sonnet by this poet begins “Death, be not proud.” For 10 points, name this English metaphysical poet of “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning” and a bunch of Holy Sonnets.
John Donne &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144356-)
The toothless veterinarian Darbon looks after one of these animals in the Andalusian village of Moguer. Christy Mahon impresses some women by winning a contest involving one of these animals in The Playboy of the Western World. One of these animals named Benjamin is the only animal besides the pigs that can read fluently in Animal Farm. Platero and I features one of these animals, and Lucius accidentally (*) turns himself into one of these animals in a novel by Apuleius titled after a golden one. One of these animals named Dapple is ridden by a servant to a windmill fighting knight-errant. For 10 points, name this animal ridden by Sancho Panza.
donkeys [or asses; or mules] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144363-)
In this novel, the horse Diamond lames itself before Fred can sell it to pay off his debts. Walter Tyke is chosen over Camden Farebrother to be chaplain of a new hospital in this novel. John Raffles blackmails the banker Bulstrode in this novel, and Rosamond marries a poor doctor. A man living at Lowick refuses to admit that the research for his book (*) The Key to All Mythologies is out of date. Despite a clause in her first husband’s will, the protagonist of this novel marries Will Ladislaw. For 10 points, name this novel centering on the life of Dorothea Brooke, Tertius Lydgate, and other residents of the titular town, written by George Eliot.
Middlemarch: A Study in Provincial Life &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144381-)
This character is mistaken for a tree spirit after getting stuck in a tree and attacked by a bull. This character is confused by a blind poet whose stories do not match historical facts but that everyone believes anyway, the Shaper. An all-knowing dragon casts a spell on this character to make him invulnerable to weapons. This title character of a John Gardner novel is described as a descendant of (*) Cain and lives at the bottom of a lake. This character dies after getting his arm ripped off during a battle in Hrothgar’s mead-hall. For 10 points, name this monster with a notable mother who is killed by Beowulf.
Grendel &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144384-)
In this work, a “heav’nly image in the glass appears” when one character looks into a mirror. That character later threatens to kill another with a hairpin. In this work, Clarissa gives a speech at a Hampton Court party saying “How vain are all these glories, all our pains, / Unless good sense preserve what beauty gains.” The protagonist’s “rage, resentment, and despair” over the title (*) action is multiplied by a bag of sighs and vial of tears from the Cave of Spleen. This poem begins “What dire offence from am’rous causes springs, / What mighty contests rise from trivial things.” The Baron gives Belinda an unexpected haircut in this poem. For 10 points, name this mock-heroic poem by Alexander Pope.
“The Rape of the Lock” &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144395-)
The speaker of this poem imagines squeezing “the universe into a ball” and saying “I am Lazarus, come from the dead.” This poem states that there is “time yet for a hundred indecisions / And for a hundred visions and revisions.” This poem’s speaker compares himself to an “attendant lord” after stating “I am not (*) Prince Hamlet, nor was meant to be.” This poem describes “yellow smoke that slides along the street” and asks “Do I dare to eat a peach?” The title character of this poem observes a room where “women come and go, talking of Michelangelo.” For 10 points, name this poem by T.S. Eliot.
“The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” [prompt on “Prufrock”] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144411-)
In the first chapter of a novel by this author, a jester points out the French etymologies of several meats to a swineherd. This author wrote a novel where a gypsy’s prophecy appears to come true when Harry Bertram is kidnapped by smugglers. The protagonist of a novel by this author is taken to Sir Hildebrand’s estate after meeting Diana Vernon and is later helped by the title (*) leader of a band of Highlanders. In a novel by this author, the Black Knight is King Richard the Lionheart in disguise, and that novel ends with the title character marrying Lady Rowena. For 10 points, name this author of Rob Roy and Ivanhoe.
Sir Walter Scott &lt;ES Literature&gt; Bonuses
4

144414-)
One of these people meets Oliphaunt while searching for the elf-queen and is named Thopas. In a story told by one of these people, Saturn prevents a character of this profession from marrying Theseus’s niece. In another novel, bicycle-riding members of this profession rescue (*) Hank Morgan. In one novel, one of these people “of the White Moon” is actually the student Samson Carrasco. In a poem, Bertilak de Hautdesert is transformed by Morgan le Fey into a “green” one of these people. For 10 points, identify these armor-clad warriors exemplified by Gawain and Lancelot.
knight [or cavalier or chevalier or caballero; accept The Redcross Knight, The Greene Knight, Sir Gawain and the Green Knight, or The Knight of the White Moon; do not accept “squire”] &lt;AP Literature&gt;
4

144440-)
One part of a short story by this author focuses on a snail in a flowerbed that four different groups of people pass. This author’s story “Kew Gardens” appears in the collection Monday or Tuesday. This author chronicled the lives of the Pargiter family over fifty years. The poet Augustus Carmichael gets yelled at after asking for another serving of soup in a novel by this author. In that novel, (*) Lily Briscoe finishes a portrait of Mrs. Ramsay as she reaches the title location. The title character of one work by this author was first introduced in her novel The Voyage Out and finds out about Septimus’ suicide at a party she throws. For 10 points, name this author of To the Lighthouse and Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf [or Adeline Virginia Stephen] &lt;ES Literature&gt;
4

144455-)
At the end of a play by this author, darkness engulfs the title character after he records his voice for the final time. The set of another play by this author is laid out in the shape of a skull and includes a three-legged toy dog. In that play, the legless Nagg and Nell can’t kiss each other because they live in trashcans. In addition to (*) Krapp’s Last Tape and Endgame, this author wrote a play in which Lucky and Pozzo inexplicably go mute and blind between acts. In that play, a boy tells Vladimir and Estragon to do the title action until tomorrow. For 10 points, name this Irish absurdist playwright of Waiting for Godot.
Samuel Barclay Beckett &lt;AP Literature&gt;
4

144495-)
This character vents at Ventidius before proclaiming “The wretched have no friends” in John Dryden’s All for Love. This character insists that, “The evil that men do lives after them” in a speech that repeatedly calls an enemy an honorable man. This friend of Enobarbus dies by stabbing himself after his attendant Eros cannot. He vows (*) revenge in a speech culminating in the line "Cry 'Havoc' and let slip the dogs of war." This character also gives a funeral oration beginning “Friends, Romans, countrymen, lend me your ears.” For 10 points, name this lover of Cleopatra and mourner of Julius Caesar in two plays by Shakespeare.
Mark Antony [or Marcus Antonius; prompt on Mark]
3

144499-)
This author wrote about a boy whose throat is cut by nefarious Jews, but miraculously sings until a grain of wheat is removed from his tongue. This author fictionalized himself as a character whose story about Sir Thopas is interrupted for being terribly rhymed. One of his characters declares that women most desire (*) authority over their husbands. This author described April showers at the start of a “General Prologue” to his best-known collection. That work by this author, written in Middle English, describes a pilgrimage to Thomas a Becket’s shrine undertaken by the Knight and the Wife of Bath. For 10 points, name this poet of The Canterbury Tales.
Geoffrey Chaucer
3

144520-)
This poet wrote “He did not wear his scarlet coat” in a poem “in memoriam” for Charles Thomas Wooldridge. The poem “Two Loves”, written about this author, coined the phrase “the love which dares not speak its name.” This poet wrote “The coward does it with a kiss” after declaring “Each man (*) kills the thing he loves”. He wrote a letter to lover Lord Alfred Douglas titled De Profundis, and after his release from prison for indecency, wrote “The Ballad of Reading Gaol [JAIL].” This author created Basil Hallward and Sybil Vane in a novel about a sinful man who remains eternally young. For 10 points, name this writer of The Picture of Dorian Gray.
Oscar Wilde
3

144533-)
In this novel’s opening scene, a swineherd claiming to be the son of Beowulf intentionally gives a travelling party bad directions. In this novel, a descendant of Harold Godwinson gets up out of his coffin during his funeral. A duel in this novel, fought to determine if a Jew was a witch, ends anticlimactically when Bois-Guilbert [BWAH GEEL-bear] dies of a seizure. In a memorable scene of this novel set at Ashby-de-la-Zouche, (*) Robin of Locksley wins at archery, and Desdichado cleans up at a jousting tournament. After the return of King Richard, Lady Rowena marries the title ex-crusading knight of this novel. For 10 points, name this adventure by Sir Walter Scott.
Ivanhoe
3

144545-)
One of this poet’s speakers describes a “luster in the air” in autumn and proclaims that “the day becomes more solemn and serene/when noon is past.” In another poem, this poet asks its subject “What objects are the fountains/Of thy happy strain?” This author of “Hymn to Intellectual Beauty” mourned John (*) Keats in Adonais [ad-oh-NYE-us]. A quote from one of this poet’s works names Noël Coward’s play Blithe Spirit. This author created a speaker who meets a “traveler from antique land” who tells him of “two vast and trunkless legs” in a desert. For 10 points, name this English poet of “To a Skylark” and “Ozymandias.”
Percy Bysshe Shelley [prompt on “Shelley”]
3

144558-)
A character in this book is offered to trade a crown for his rake, but he prefers instead to wipe up filth from the floor. This book, which was delivered “in the similitude of a dream”, begins with an Apology from the Author. Its second part lists the struggles of Christiana and her four sons. The chapters in Little Women are named for events from this book. This novel’s protagonist is sent to prison for condemning worshippers of (*) Beelzebub at Vanity Fair. The protagonist of this book kills Apollyon in the Valley of Humiliation and goes to the Celestial City. For 10 points, name this Christian allegory about Christian, which was written by John Bunyan.
The Pilgrim’s Progress from This World to That Which Is to Come; Delivered under the Similitude of a Dream
3

144567-)
Hugh Evelyn-White collected 33 hymns in dactylic hexameter that are named for, but not written by, this author. A poem by this author repeats phrases like “swift-footed” and “breaker of horses”, and spends 250 lines cataloguing ships and 120 lines describing a shield. Horace coined the phrase “even &lt;this author&gt; (*) nods.” This author names epic similes extending over many poetic lines. The wine-dark sea and the rosy fingers of dawn are examples of his epithets. This author described a hero who’s so angry that his friend Patroclus is killed, that he drags Hector’s body around Troy for a week. For 10 points, name this blind poet of the Iliad.
Homer
3

144572-)
A character in this novel humiliates a friend by playing the words “blunder” and “Dixon” in a word game similar to Scrabble. The protagonist of this novel rudely suggests that a friend will only say three dull things at once while on a very hot picnic. An anonymous piano at the Bates house is assumed to be a gift from Colonel (*) Campbell in this book. This novel’s protagonist convinces her best friend not to marry Robert Martin, a mistake, since Harriet ends up hating Frank Churchill instead. Mr. Knightley winds up marrying the arrogant protagonist of this novel. For 10 points, name this novel by Jane Austen whose title girl is a matchmaker.
Emma
3

144586-)
The appendix to this novel provides sentences like “This dog is free of lice” and divides language into A, B, and C vocabulary. This novel introduced the idea of holding two contradictory ideas simultaneously, and accepting both as true. This novel’s protagonist receives a note that reads “dayorder doubleplusungood refs unpersons rewrite fullwise”, and is later told that (*) two and two make five. Words like Ingsoc, Miniplenty, and crimethink are used excessively in this novel’s Newspeak dialect. Its protagonist avoids telescreens and hopes that proles will bring down Oceania and Big Brother. For 10 points, name this George Orwell dystopian novel.
Nineteen Eighty-Four
3

144609-)
One of this author’s works begins by invoking “The Patron of True Holinesse” which “foule error doth defeate.” He dedicated a collection which includes the poem “One day I wrote her name upon the strand” to his future wife Elizabeth Boyle. Eight lines of pentameter followed by an alexandrine make up this poet’s namesake (*) stanza form. This author of Amoretti and Epithalamion created the villainous sorcerer Archimago and the heroic Redcrosse Knight. This namesake of a sonnet form is best-known for an allegorical epic poem about Gloriana, who represents Elizabeth I. For 10 points, name this 16th century author of The Faerie Queene.
Edmund Spenser
3

144634-)
Simonides [sigh-MAWN-i-dees] pioneered the form for a type of these works called the epinikion. During the performance of these works, the chorus moves from the right side to the left side, then moves back during the antistrophe. Pindar wrote some of these works titled for victory. In response to one of these poems by Wordsworth intimating about (*) immortality, Coleridge wrote one titled for dejection. One in Latin ends with the invocation “Carpe diem.” Keats wrote five of these poems in 1819, including one “To Autumn” and one “to a Nightingale.” For 10 points, name this poetic form pioneered by Horace, a poem written in praise of someone or something.
ode [or epinikion until it is read; or victory odes until it is read; prompt on poems or word forms until read; prompt on strophe; prompt on antistrophe; prompt on epode]
3

144638-)
The sixth part of this poem begins as a dialogue between “First Voice” and “Second Voice.” A character in this poem remarks, “I fear thee and thy glittering eye, and thy skinny hand so brown!” This poem describes a fearsome Night-Mare who represents Life-in-Death. It ends with a line about a guy who awoke the next morning, “a sadder and wiser man.” This poem describes a “painted (*) ship upon a painted ocean” and “slimy things” that “did crawl with legs”. It coined the phrase, “Water, water everywhere.” The speaker tells the Wedding-Guest that he shot an Albatross. For 10 points, name this “rime” written by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
“The Rime of the Ancient Mariner”
3

144646-)
This play abruptly ends in an epilogue claiming the rest wouldn’t need to be told if people weren’t obsessed with happy endings. This play’s opening scene includes characters called “The Sarcastic Bystander” and “The Note-Taker.” A scoundrel in this play gets a fortune in a millionaire’s will, as long as he lectures about public morals. This play’s protagonist sensationally shouts “Not (*) bloody likely!” which impresses Freddy Eynsford-Hill. Colonel Pickering and Professor Higgins bet that a Cockney flowergirl can pass as an English duchess in this play. For 10 points, name this play about Eliza Doolittle written by George Bernard Shaw.
Pygmalion
3

144658-)
In JM Coetzee’s [CUT-zee's] Disgrace, David Lurie is working on a long autobiographical play about this person. Lady Caroline Lamb described this person as “Mad, bad, and dangerous to know.” Computing pioneer Ada Lovelace was his only legitimate child. The English vampire originated from a “fragment of a novel” that this author wrote during the (*) ghost story competition that also inspired Frankenstein. This man is the namesake of a type of an antisocial, arrogant, but passionate hero, such as Childe Harold. This author died of fever while fighting against the Ottomans for Greek independence. For 10 points, name this scandalous Romantic poet and lord.
Lord Byron [or George Gordon Byron]
3

144664-)
A character in this novel is berated for suggesting, “What I mean is...maybe it’s only us.” At its end, the protagonist weeps for "the darkness of man’s heart, and for the fall through the air of a wise, true friend.” Stephen King stole the name “Castle Rock” from this novel. A Christ figure in this novel faints upon seeing a (*) pig’s head on a stick, then finds a dead parachutist. In this novel, Roger harasses the littluns and Samneric. The two protagonists of this novel own a pair of glasses and a conch shell but are set upon by Jack’s hunters. For 10 points, name this novel about Piggy and Ralph, who get stranded on a desert island, written by William Golding.
Lord of the Flies Bonuses
3

144671-)
One of this author’s speakers declares that he is composed of “Eros and dust” and wishes, like “ironic points of light”, to “show an affirming flame.” This author imagined “dogs [going] on with their doggy life” in a poem that recalls “how everything turns away/quite leisurely from the disaster.” In another poem, this author rhetorically asked, “Was he free? Was he (*) happy?”, noting “Had anything been wrong, we certainly would have heard.” He collaborated on several plays with lover Christopher Isherwood. This poet described Breughel’s Icarus in “Musée des Beaux Arts.” For 10 points, name this British poet of “September 1, 1939.”
WH Auden [or Wystan Hugh Auden]
3

144692-)
A character in this novel dreams that a woman tears a veil by her bedside in two, then wakes up to find the veil actually torn. This book begins, “There was no possibility of taking a walk that day”, so the narrator sits reading behind a curtain, then gets sent to the red-room. Its protagonist refuses to be a missionary in India with (*) her long-lost cousin. A character in this novel goes blind during a fire at Thornfield. The Madwoman in the Attic is based on its character Bertha Mason. In this novel, published under the pseudonym “Currer Bell”, Edward Rochester falls in love with his governess. For 10 points, name this novel by Charlotte Bronte.
Jane Eyre
3

144697-)
This author wrote a poem that says, “Hieronymo’s mad againe. Datta. Dayadhvam. Damyata.” A poem by this author repeats, “For Thine is the Kingdom” and declares, “There are no eyes here/In this valley of dying stars.” One of his speakers says, “That is not what I meant, at all” and admits there is time for “a hundred visions and (*) revisions.” This poet listed seven tarot cards in the section “The Burial of the Dead.” He described an evening like a “patient etherized upon a table.” This author wrote, “This is the way the World ends” in “The Hollow Men.” For 10 points, name this author who wrote “April is the cruelest month” in “The Waste-Land.”
TS Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]
3

144712-)
This character hides out for days in a hotel on Portland Street after unexpectedly appearing at Regents Park. Mr. Guest compares a letter scribbled by this character to the handwriting in a dinner invitation. After a young girl runs into this character, he calmly tramples on her body, in a story related by Enfield. This character (*) murders Danvers Carew, but then apparently kills himself with a vial of poison. Mr. Poole comes across this character’s corpse, wearing clothes way too big for him. Dr. Lanyon tells Mr. Utterson about his utter fear of this man. For 10 points, name this character who appears whenever Dr. Jekyll drinks a potion.
Edward Hyde [or Mr. Hyde; do not accept or prompt on “Dr. Henry Jekyll” alone, but accept Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde if they are both mentioned]
3

144721-)
51 years after writing a poem, this author published a sequel to it subtitled “Sixty Years After.” The fifth line of every nonet ends in the word “Camelot” in a poem by this author that mentions a “mirror crack’d from side to side.” This author based a twelve-poem cycle on Le Morte d’Arthur. All six stanzas of another of his poems end (*) “six hundred.” He wrote “Break, Break, Break” for the death of his lover A.H. Hallam. This author penned, “To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield” in “Ulysses”. He wrote about soldiers plunging into the “Valley of Death” in “The Charge of the Light Brigade.” For 10 points, name this Victorian poet and baron.
Alfred, Lord Tennyson
3

144727-)
The speaker is interrupted from writing a poem by the “sudden, hot, sharp stink” of one of these creatures in a Ted Hughes poem titled for a “thought” one. One of these animals claims, “What is essential is invisible to the eye.” A character named for these animals seduces Celia, the wife of his son Corvino. One named (*) Reynard appears in the “Nun’s Priest Tale.” The Little Prince tames one. Regina Hubbard Giddens appears in a Lillian Hellman play named for “little” ones. Mosca serves a greedy lord named for these animals in Ben Jonson’s Volpone. For 10 points, name these animals, one of whom disdains “sour” grapes in an Aesop fable.
foxes [or the thought-fox; or The Little Foxes] Bonuses
3

144731-)
In a story by this author, Ms. Spence accuses Mr. Hutton of poisoning his wife, but really the criminal was Doris, Hutton’s mistress. This author of “The Gioconda Smile” wrote about Will Farnaby in the novel Island. Characters created by this author sing, “Orgy-porgy gives release” at a (*) Solidarity Service. This author took a lot of mescaline to write The Doors of Perception. This author described a society divided into Alphas and Epsilons, where years are dated After Ford, and where everybody except John the Savage takes a lot of soma, in a dystopian novel. For 10 points, name this author of Brave New World.
Aldous Huxley
3

144768-)
A character in this play invents a “daughter of [her] father,” to counter a claim that women’s love isn’t as passionate as men’s love. A character in this play interprets the riddle “M. O. A. I.” to be his own name, and therefore walks around cross-gartered, smiling stupidly. Antonio interrupts a duel in this play so he can be arrested. The jester (*) Feste sings throughout this play, which begins, “If music be the food of love, play on.” A page named Cesario dresses in women’s clothes and marries the duke of Illyria, Orsino, at this play’s end, when Viola reunites with Sebastian. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy written for the end of Christmas.
Twelfth Night
3

144775-)
6. One character in this play demands that he be covered as well in his father’s funeral, and commands, “Now pile your dust upon the quick and dead.” Another character in this play mourns how his mother had “followed my poor father’s body Like Niobe” before remarking, “frailty, thy name is woman.” The central character swaps execution letters before entering England, leading to the deaths of two friends from Wittenberg, (*) Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. During his duel with Laertes, the title character kills his uncle Claudius. For ten points, name this Shakespearean tragedy about a Prince of Denmark who asks, “to be or not to be.”
The Tragedy of Hamlet: Prince of Denmark &lt;KT&gt;
3

144801-)
10. This author wrote a novel in which the hypnotist Lasker Jones offers advice about same-sex marriage to the protagonist after he spends a night with Alec Scudder. In another work by this author, Charles is sentenced to three years in jail after a falling bookcase kills Leonard Bast. In a third novel by this man, Mrs. Moore is unable to continue exploring the (*) Marabar Caves after receiving an invitation from Fielding’s tea party. In that work, Ronny Heaslop decides not to marry Adela Quested after she drops her charges of sexual assault against Dr. Aziz. For ten points, identify this English author of Maurice, Howard’s End and A Passage to India.
Edward Morgan Forster &lt;KT&gt;
3

144815-)
2. In this play, one character inherits a fortune after a millionaire is convinced that he is the “most original moralist” of England. In an earlier scene, a young lady pays a shilling in Wimpole Street to be able to work in a flower shop; that character later marries (*) Freddy Eynsford Hill. This play begins in Covent Garden, where an interpreter of Indian dialect, Colonel Pickering, accepts a bet with a phonetics professor that the latter can change a cockney-speaking girl into a proper woman. For ten points, identify this play in which Eliza Doolittle betrays Henry Higgins, written by George Bernard Shaw.
Pygmalion &lt;KT&gt;
3

144836-)
1. In this novel, Mrs. Smith disowns one character for abandoning Eliza Williams, and that character is later compelled to marry Sophia Grey to keep his wealthy lifestyle. Sir John Middleton loans a family his cottage in Devonshire after they are forced out by Fanny, and the central characters are visited by (*) Lucy Steele. A character living in Barton Park is abandoned by John Willoughby in this novel, but that character, Marianne, eventually marries Colonel Brandon and her sister Elinor marries Edward Ferrars. For ten points, name this work by Jane Austen about the Dashwood family.
Sense and Sensibility &lt;KT&gt;
3

144860-)
3. In one of this writer’s poems, Saturn, who is “quiet as a stone, / Still as the silence round about his lair”, sits in “the shady sadness of a vale”. The speaker asks “Where are the songs of Spring? Ay, where are they?” in another of his poems, which describes a “Season of mists and yellow fruitfulness”. This poet of the unfinished “Hyperion” and “To (*) Autumn” also wrote a poem addressed to a “light-winged Dryad of the trees”. Another one of his poems describes a “foster-child of Silence and slow Time” and concludes by stating that “Beauty is truth, truth Beauty.” For ten points, name this English poet of “Ode to a Nightingale” and “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
John Keats &lt;MP&gt;
3

144899-)
20. In one of this poet’s works, the narrator desires for Mirth to be with “Jest and youthful Jollity” and “wanton Wiles” and ends by asserting that “I mean to live with [it].” This author wrote a closet drama in which the Philistine Dalila deceives the title character, who is “eyeless in Gaza.” He is most famous for a work in which (*) Mammon and Beelzebub aid a character who claims that it is “better to rule in Hell than to serve in Heaven.” In that work, Satan tempts Adam and Eve to commit “Man’s first disobedience.” For ten points, name this author of Samson Agonistes and Paradise Lost.
John Milton &lt;KT&gt;
3

144901-)
22. This author wrote that “Cruelty has a human heart/ And jealousy a human face” in his poem, “A Divine Image.” The narrator of another one of his works saw his “foe outstretch’d beneath the tree,” and the collection which contains that poem also includes poems which describe “mind-forged manacles” and how (*) “Chimney-Sweepers cry”. This poet’s most famous work asks “did he who made the lamb make thee?” and describes a creature with an “immortal eye” who is “burning bright/ in the forests of the night.” For ten points, identify this poet whose Songs of Innocence and Experience included works like “London” and “The Tyger”.
William Blake &lt;KT&gt; Bonuses
3

144920-)
19. In this work, Mr. Bumble and Edward Leeford agree to throw a locket and a ring in a river, while another scene shows Mr. Sowerberry and Noah Claypole fighting the protagonist. After wrongfully being accused of stealing a handkerchief, the protagonist of this work stays with (*) Mr. Brownlow and meets a girl named Nancy, who is later murdered by her boyfriend Bill Sikes. The Artful Dodger and the title character pickpocket in a group led by Fagin, who is hanged in the end of the novel. For ten points, name this Charles Dickens work about an orphan who asks, “Please, sir, I want some more.”
Oliver Twist &lt;KT&gt;
3

144927-)
4. This poet notices “How lonely rings the echo of my feet!” in the poem, “A Summer Night.” In another work, this poet begins by describing “How changed is here each spot man makes or fills” to commemorate Arthur Hugh Clough. His most famous work observes “the grating roar/ Of pebbles which the (*) waves draw back” and how “Sophocles long ago” heard “the eternal note of sadness” on the Aegean. That work by this author of “Thyrsis” ends by noting that “here as on a darkling plain” “ignorant armies clash by night.” For ten points, identify this poet who wrote “Dover Beach.”
Matthew Arnold &lt;KT&gt;
3

144951-)
6. In this work, one character bankrupts the servant Briggs and the landlord Raggles, and that character earlier plays charades as the character of Clytemnestra. Another character in this work flees to India after leaving his godson to a woman who graduated from Miss Pinkerton’s Academy. The protagonist pursues relationships with the Marquis of Steyne and Jos after a failed marriage with (*) Rawdon Crawley in this work, whose title is inspired from a line in The Pilgrim’s Progress. Dobbin eventually marries the friend of Becky Sharp, Amelia Sedley, in, for ten points, what “novel without a hero” written by William Makepeace Thackeray?
Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero &lt;KT&gt;
3

144982-)
15. The speaker of one of this author’s poems comments that “such gaudy Tulips [are] rais'd from Dung” after entering the dressing room of Celia. This author included the allegory of a spider and a bee in a prolegomenon to a work in which Peter, Jack, and Martin, who each symbolize a branch in Christianity, ultimately split up. This author of The Battle of the Books and (*) A Tale of a Tub also wrote an essay which suggests the usage of children as a rich source of food. The protagonist of his most famous novel meets the Houyhnhnms, Yahoos, and the tiny inhabitants of Lilliput. For ten points, name this satirical author of A Modest Proposal and Gulliver’s Travels.
Jonathan Swift &lt;KT&gt;
3

145006-)
17. This poem asks how one character could “not lament her fate” when “the light broke on her murdered dears” in one of its “four funerals,” the last of which is named after the “Last Survivor.” In this work, which appears in the Nowell Codex, another character accuses the protagonist of losing a swimming race against Breca. It begins with a description of the death of king (*) Shield Sheafson. Wiglaf fights a dragon alongside this poem’s protagonist, to whom Unferth lends his sword Hrunting before he fights the mother of the antagonist. For ten points, identify this Old English epic in which the title Geatish protagonist kills Grendel.
Beowulf &lt;KT&gt;
3

145009-)
20. In one of this author’s works, a knight who serves Love tells the poet how he lost his queen in a game of chess against Fortuna. In addition to that poem, which begins by retelling Ovid’s story about Ceyx and Alcyone, this author wrote a poem in which Scipio Africanus guides the narrator to Venus’s temple. This author of The Book of the Duchess and “The (*) Parlement of Foules” wrote a more famous work which features the story of Arcite and Palamon, as told by a knight, set against the frame narrative of a pilgrimage to the grave of Thomas Becket. For ten points, name this author who included tales from people like the Nun’s Priest and the Wife of Bath in his collection, The Canterbury Tales.
Geoffrey Chaucer &lt;KT&gt;
3

145018-)
7. This poet commented that “Who are a little wise, the best fools be” in his poem, “The Triple Fool.” The speaker of another of his works mentions how a firmness “makes me end where I begun” and begins with describing how “virtuous men pass mildly away”. This author also wrote about how “our two bloods mingled be” after an insect (*) “sucks me first and now sucks thee”, and another work mentions how a certain figure is a “slave to Fate, Chance, kings, and desperate men”. For ten points, name this metaphysical poet of “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning,” “The Flea,” and Holy Sonnet X, “Death be not proud.”
John Donne &lt;KT&gt;
3

145048-)
15. One work that shares its title with this poem mentions how “We wonder…Where London stood, holding the Wolf in chace” and was written by Horace Smith in a competition against this poem’s author. The speaker of this poem notices the “hand that mocked” and “the (*) heart that fed” after reading passions “which yet survive”. The speaker also describes the “frown/ And wrinkled lip” of an object that is “Half sunk”. This work also mentions how “the lone and level sands stretch far away” from a “Colossal wreck”. A “traveller from an antique land” mentions “Two vast and trunkless legs of stone” in, for ten points, what work about a “king of kings” by Percy Shelley?
“Ozymandias” &lt;KT&gt;
3

145068-)
This author described “The eternal sunshine of the spotless mind” and noted that “He best can paint ‘em, who shall feel ‘em most” in one work. Another of his works asks, “Who breaks a Butterfly upon a Wheel?” This author of “Eloisa to Abelard” and “Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot” commented that (*) “a little learning is a dangerous thing” and that “to err is human, to forgive Divine” in another work. In a more famous poem by this man, Umbriel visits the Cave of Spleen before Lord Petre cuts a piece of Belinda’s hair without her knowledge. For ten points, name this English author of “An Essay on Man” and the mock epic poem, The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope
3

145071-)
16. In “The Hollow Men,” T.S. Eliot quotes this author’s statement that “Life is very long,” which is spoken by Captain Lingard to Peter Willems in his story, An Outcast of the Islands. The title character of another of his novels allows Doramin to shoot him after the death of Dain Waris. In one of his stories, a captain near the Gulf of Siam allows Leggatt to escape after seeing him swim away from the Sephora. This author of (*) “The Secret Sharer” wrote a more famous novella about Kurtz, who is praised as a god in the Belgian Congo and yells “The horror! The horror!” to Charles Marlowe. For ten points, name this author of Lord Jim and Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad [or Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski] &lt;KT&gt;
3

145083-)
6. One character in this work rejects Mercy Chant since she lacks farming skills despite the suggestions of his brothers Felix and Cuthbert. Later on, that same character asks Izz to be his mistress. The protagonist of this work moves to Sandbourne after sending angry letters to her lover before urging him to marry her sister, Liza-Lu. The title character gives birth to (*) Sorrow and works at Talbothay’s dairy, where she meets a man who later abandons her for a new life in Brazil. This novel's protagonist is sent to Winchester prison to be executed for murdering Alec. For ten points, name this novel by Thomas Hardy about Angel Clare and his love for the title character.
Tess of the d’Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented &lt;KT&gt;
3

145104-)
5. This man wrote a short story about a hide­and­seek game in the dark where Peter Morton accidentally terrifies his twin brother to death. This author wrote a novel in which a dachshund hound is poisoned in a failed assassination attempt against the protagonist, a (*) vacuum salesman­turned­spy. This author created Henry Wormold in Our Man in Havana,and in another of his novels, the girl Coral tries to protect the protagonist, who is nevertheless betrayed by the mestizo to the Church­hating Lieutenant. For 10 points, name this British author who created the whisky priest in The Power and the Glory.
(Henry) Graham Greene
4

145129-)
This work includes “the Pedant” impersonating another character’s father, and a character who drinks communion wine at his own wedding. A woman’s speech at the end of this play admonishes two others to “dart not scornful glances from those eyes to wound thy lord, thy king, thy governor.” In this play, Hortensio impersonates a Latin teacher. Its characters of Gremio and Tranio engage in a bidding war in Padua to marry Bianca, whose older sister has to wed first and then gets abused by her husband. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy in which Petruchio makes his wild wife Katharine submit to him.
The Taming of the Shrew &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145154-)
One section of this work features Dorigen, who promises to sleep with the clerk Aurelius if he can clear a coast of rocks. Another part of this work features a beating delivered by Jankyn before a man is sent to determine that dominance over their husbands is the answer to the question of what women want. A General Prologue starts this work, in which a third story features the rivalry between Arcite and Palamon, two knights. For 10 points, name this poem in which people such as the Franklin, the Wife of Bath and the Knight tell stories as they make a pilgrimage to an English shrine, by Geoffrey Chaucer.
The Canterbury Tales &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145161-)
This author wrote about an engineer’s nightmares of pink toads. This man created a title character rumored to possess a huge gem, since his lover’s name is Jewel, who gets a job from the insect-collecting merchant Stein and befriends the young warrior Dain Waris. This author wrote about Gentleman Brown’s attack on Patusan and the abandonment of Muslim pilgrims aboard the Patna by a sailor in Lord Jim. This author wrote of the ship Nellie, whose crew sees Kurtz’s ivory trade exploit dark-skinned natives. For 10 points, name this Polish émigré to England, whose character Charles Marlow travels up the Congo river into Africa in Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad [or Józef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski] &lt;SJW&gt; [You have reached the end of the round. Do not continue reading unless the game is tied or a tossup was thrown out earlier in the round.]
4

145167-)
This book’s title figure “expands like a balloon” until a black mouth surrounds its conversational partner. A landform called “the scar” recurs in this book, in which a person’s breathing is mocked by the phrase “sucks to your ass-mar,” a set of twins is called by the single word Samneric, and a class of people called “littluns” emerges. Simon investigates “the beast” and hears messages from a decaying pig’s head in this novel, in which the shattering of a conch shell and the breaking of Piggy’s glasses heighten tension between Ralph and Jack’s choirboys. For 10 points, name this book by William Golding about boys stranded on an island.
Lord of the Flies &lt;MJ&gt;
4

145197-)
The dying Peter Featherstone tries to alter his will in this book, but Mary Garth refuses to help him. This book includes the vicar and amateur naturalist Mr. Farebrother. John Raffles blackmails Mr. Bulstrode in this novel, whose protagonist reconciles Rosamond and her husband after they nearly go bankrupt. Fred Vincy runs into financial difficulties in this novel, in which another character dies before finishing his Key To All Mythologies. Dr. Lydgate features in this novel, in which the scholar Mr. Casaubon alters his will to prevent Will Ladislaw from marrying his widow, Dorothea. For 10 points, name this “Study in Provincial Life,” a George Eliot novel.
Middlemarch: A Study in Provincial Life &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145210-)
This author wrote a biography of Elizabeth Barrett Browning’s dog. Characters in one of this author’s works include a rejected suitor named Peter Walsh and a veteran who has visions of his dead friend Evans. In another work, this author of Flush created the poet Augustus Carmichael and Lily Briscoe, two guests on the island of Skye. Another work by this author juxtaposes the suicide of Septimus Smith with the party-planning of the title woman. She concluded one novel with members of the Ramsay family sailing to the title location. For 10 points, name this suicidal feminist author of Mrs. Dalloway and To The Lighthouse.
Adeline Virginia Woolf &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145227-)
One of this author’s protagonists has his ear struck by a “flapper” in a society where no buildings have any right angles in them. This author mocked John Partridge’s almanacs by predicting Partridge’s own death under the pseudonym of Isaac Bickerstaff. This author also suggests that skin would make excellent gloves and in an essay about reducing the number of papists in Ireland by eating their babies. For 10 points, identify this satirist who penned A Modest Proposal, who wrote of a man who visits the giants of Brobdignag after being tied down by the tiny people of Lilliput in Gulliver’s Travels.
Jonathan Swift &lt;GL&gt;
4

145231-)
Figures in this work include “the eternal Footman,” and a speaker who claims “I am Lazarus, come from the dead, back to tell you all.” Its narrator asks whether he has “the strength to force the moment to its crisis,” and plans to wear his “trousers rolled.” The speaker of this poem imagines being “a pair of ragged claws,” and its six-line epigraph is Italian from Dante’s Inferno. This work describes “yellow fog that rubs its back upon the window-panes” and ends with an image of drowning amid “mermaids singing, each to each.” It features a room where “women come and go, talking of Michelangelo” and begins “Let us go then, you and I.” For 10 points, name this T. S. Eliot poem.
“The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145246-)
One of this man’s poems argues that “the world has still / Much good, but still less good than ill,” and discusses a feast serving “poisoned meat and poisoned drink.” That poem by this man complains to a drunkard about his bad poetry and notes that “Mithridates, he died old.” This poet got the advice “Give pounds and crowns and guineas, / But not your heart away” when he was one-and-twenty. This author of “Terence, this is stupid stuff” also described a boy who “won [his] town the race” but cannot do so anymore. For 10 points, name this Brit whose collection A Shropshire Lad contains “To an Athlete, Dying Young.”
Alfred Edward Housman &lt;MJ&gt; Bonuses
4

145247-)
This book depicts a nobleman’s ritualistic drinking of hot chocolate; a note reading “Drive him fast to his tomb” is left by a knife after Gaspard kills that noble to avenge a child run over by a carriage. The spies John Barsad and Roger Cly try to frame a man in this book, which showcases prison cell One Hundred and Five, North Tower. Madame Defarge is from this book, as is the phrase “It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done,” spoken by Sidney Carton when he takes Charles Darnay’s place at the guillotine. For 10 points, name this novel about the French Revolution, which opens “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times,” by Charles Dickens.
A Tale of Two Cities &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145286-)
One character in this work has a flight blocked by a shapeless black being carrying a “fatal dart” and a woman who sprang from his head, with whom he committed incest. This poem’s author is inspired by a “Heavenly Muse” that “dove-like sat’st brooding” in four invocations, and its opening includes a debate in which Belial and Mammon speak in Pandaemonium. A couple “hand in hand” take their “solitary way” at the end of this twelve-book poem, in which Raphael and Michael speak in part to “justify the ways of God to men”. For 10 points, name this epic about the fall of Satan, Adam, and Eve, by John Milton.
Paradise Lost &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145294-)
A song in this work tells of the death of Finn on a visit to his sister in Frisia. The first character to speak in this work is a coast-guard who gives directions to some sea-faring soldiers. It survives as the work of Scribes A and B in Cotton Vitellius A15, also called the Nowell Codex. One character in this work is challenged to retell his swimming contest with Breca. This poem begins with the funeral of Scyld Scefing, and ends with Wiglaf assisting the title figure against a dragon. Its title Geatish hero defends Heorot hall and king Hrothgar. For 10 points, identify this Old English poem, in which the title warrior defeats the monster Grendel and its mother.
Beowulf &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145311-)
This man says “O reason not the need!” to start one speech after arguing about how many knights should accompany him, and he hires a banished companion who uses the name Caius. This man is told “I cannot heave my heart / Into my mouth,” after which the duke of Burgundy leaves his estate. This man’s companions include the madman Tom o’Bedlam, Kent, and his court fool, with whom he yells “blow, winds, and crack your cheeks!” as he runs into a storm. He dies of grief clutching Cordelia. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean title character, whose tragedy begins when he divides his kingdom among three daughters.
King Lear &lt;SJW&gt;
4

145352-)
One character in this novel sells horses at inflated prices to those fleeing a war-torn city. Another character is made governor of Coventry Island by the Marquis of Steyne. In this book, a female graduate of Miss Pinkerton’s Academy is loved by William Dobbin though she is married to George Osborne, who dies in battle at Waterloo. It focuses on the good-natured Amelia Sedley and the anti-heroine, Becky Sharp. It takes its name from a locale in Pilgrim’s Progress and is subtitled “A Novel without a Hero.” For 10 points, name this novel by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero &lt;AT&gt;
4

145385-)
Adrienne Rich took one of this man’s titles for a poem beginning “My swirling wants. Your frozen lips,” and Cleanth Brooks took the title of The Well-Wrought Urn from a poem where this man imagines “build[ing] in sonnets pretty rooms” after death. He told a lover “For God’s sake, hold your tongue” in “The Canonization,” and imagined a creature which “suck’d [him] first, and now sucks thee” in “The Flea.” This author depicted a compass in “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning,” claimed that “No man is an island,” and wrote “Death, be not proud.” For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet, the English author of Meditations and the Holy Sonnets.
John Donne &lt;MJ&gt;
4

145413-)
This poet included the cry “I am aweary, aweary; I would that I were dead!” in a poem inspired by Measure for Measure. He described “Long fields of barley and of rye / That clothe the wold and meet the sky” in another poem, and had a mythical narrator complain that “after many a summer dies the swan.” This author of “Marianna,” “Tithonus,” and “The Lady of Shalott” wrote of an old king who still wants “to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield” despite having returned home. For 10 points, name this Victorian author of “Ulysses,” who described the “noble six hundred” in “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
Alfred, Lord Tennyson &lt;GL&gt; [You have reached the end of the round. Do not continue reading unless the game is tied or a tossup was thrown out earlier in the round.]
4

145425-)
In a letter to Claire Clermont, the author of this poem claimed that while writing it, a "stormy mist of sensations" continuously afflicted him. This poem describes a group as "the splendours of the firmament of time" that are never "extinguish'd," and suggests that group comes from those whose "names on Earth are dark / but whose transmitted effluence cannot die / so long as fire outlives the parent spark." This poem praises "kings of thought, / who wag'd contention with their time's decay", and notes that "Chatterton," "Sidney" and "Lucan" are figures who "rose from their thrones, built beyond mortal thought". This poem twice states “Go to Rome”, calling it the sepulchre “of our joy”. This poem's 55th and final stanza compares the "soul of" the title character to a star that "Beacons from the abode where the Eternal are." For 10 points, name this elegy for John Keats, written by Percy Shelley.
Adonais
9

145439-)
This essay’s narrator "remembered the shout of Achilles and its effect" before counting down "seventy seconds" before a thoughtless woman will "stand before the judgment-seat of God." Later, this work’s narrator imagines standing upon a "three-decker" boat and observing that same woman upon a "fairy pinnace." The narrator visits a "distant kingdom" in the this essay’s last section, which is set in a “cosmic cathedral”. This essay’s third section opens with the Latin word Tumultuosissimamente (TOO-mul-TWAH-siss-uh-MAH-men-TAY), and presents five visions inspired by the near-death of a couple on a gig. Its opening section ends with "Going Down with Victory," which describes how news of the Napoleonic wars was spread via the title object. "The Glory of Motion" and "The Vision of Sudden Death" are parts of, for 10 points, what Thomas De Quincey essay praising a kind of vehicle?
The English Mail-Coach
9

145441-)
In one poem, a man with this first name is known "for his rational sense" and can "squeeze love songs out of turgid prose." That man with this first name from Bologna wrote a poem whose second stanza compares love to "fire," like "power gleaming inside a precious stone". That author with this first name opined "love always repairs the noble heart" or “cor gentil.” Another person with this first name is the addressee of a poem in which the speaker wishes for "our good enchanter's wizardry" to allow "Lady Vanna", "Lady Lagia," and "her whose number is 30" to be carried off "upon the sea." That person with this first name himself wrote a poem whose final stanza addresses the canzone he has just "adorned," and opens "A lady asks me," or "Donna me prega." The "Sweet New Style" was founded by a poet whose surname was Cavalcanti, and whose first name was, for 10 points, what word?
Guido [accept Guido Cavalcanti or Guido Guinizelli]
9

145459-)
This book describes how a vengeful gentleman once locked his wife in a room with a cabinet full of bones and forced her to drink from a skull that had its eye sockets plugged with silver. This text’s characters include Roncex, who screams after sitting on some dung in an outhouse, causing the servant La Mothe to think she is being "ravished." In this book, a woman punishes her impious son by doing the bed trick on him and getting pregnant, then later having him unwittingly marry the daughter born from that night many years later. This book, which was originally titled Tales of Fortunate Lovers, is largely narrated by a group in the Abbey of Our Lady who wait for a bridge to be built. Francois Rabelais so admired this book's author that he dedicated the third book of Gargantua and Pantagruel to her. For 10 points, name this collection of 72 bawdy tales by Marguerite de Navarre.
Heptameron [or Tales of Fortunate Lovers before “Tales”]
9

145461-)
A book by this author analyzes a 19th-century hairdresser who wrote the poem “Francouneto,” in which a woman is suspected of being a sorceress after her suitors lose their limbs while courting her. Another of this historian’s books is about Thomas Platter, a foundling who becomes a thief and then a scholar after a chance conversation. Yet a third book by this author discusses the creation of "folklore kingdoms" symbolized by a sheep, partridge, and cockerel within a town taken over by artisans. This author of Jasmin's Witch and The Beggar and the Professor analyzed the formation of reynages, or folk gatherings, as a mentalite in The Carnival of the Romans. Another of his books has been translated using the phrase "the promised land of error," and uses the Fournier Registry to reconstruct the life of Cathars. The Annales school was once led by, for 10 points, what historian and author of Montaillou?
Emmanuel Bernard Le Roy Ladurie
9

145468-)
In a meditation, a character wishes that "every new book shall be a labyrinth" of these things from which a person shall "vainly try to extricate himself." That meditation opens by claiming the desultory manner of these things can be found in the "satires and epistles of the excellent Horace," and asserts that Horace is merely a collection of these things. The work in which these things appear is described as "progressive" by its narrator because these things supposedly represent the "soul of reading." Christoph Henke claims that the novel in which these things appear exhibits "self-reflexivity," since the recounting of these things prevents the story of the king of Bohemia and his seven Castles from ever being recited. The text of Walter's encyclopedia, and the story of Hafen Slawkenbergius are examples of, for 10 points, what passages in Tristram Shandy that occupy the narrative so much that Tristram's birth isn't described until Book III?
digressions in the work of Laurence Sterne [accept stories or interpolated passages from Tristram Shandy because eventually the material described is not a term of art]
9

145476-)
An invective poem by this writer proclaims “I’ll sing a psalm as I watch it burn / and the ashes I’ll keep in a one-sided urn”; in that poem the speaker promises to do penance “with farts and groans / kneeling upon my marrowbones.” He proclaimed “yet must thou unfold me unaware” since “thy Mithridates were, / framed to defy the poison dart.” This poet praises the soul of Lucia, his “blueveined” daughter, as “paler than time’s wan wave” in a poem about giving her a flower. He addressed a “star of evil! Star of pain!” and bemoans “highhearted youth” not “coming again” in his poem “Bahnhofstrasse,” which he wrote in Zurich after he was diagnosed with glaucoma. This poet’s brother Stanislaus helped start the claim that his first volume of poetry was titled for a place where one urinates. Chamber Music is by, for 10 points, what author, whose other book of poetry is Pomes Pennyeach?
James Joyce [or James Augustine Aloysius Joyce]
9

145501-)
Upon learning about the death of her brother, this author gazes at a portrait of him and imagines the irony that the countrymen of Fritz Kreisler had killed him. In a chapter called "Between the Sandhill and the Sea," this author recalls meeting a "highbrow in revolt against highbrows" that she calls "Hope Milroy." This woman describes boarding the HMHS Brittanic and receiving an "efficiency strap" from the Matron for a year of service in her best known-book, which describes the death of both her brother Edward and her fiancé Roland Leighton. That book by her was followed up with two further memoirs partly named "of faith" and "of friendship," the latter of which is about her good friend Winifred Holtby. A marriage to George Catlin, and an account of being a nurse for the Voluntary Aid Detachment are described in, for 10 points, what author’s World War I memoir Testament of Youth?
Vera Brittain [or Vera Mary Brittain]
9

145506-)
When thinking about this character, another character would gaze at the Moon and make facial expressions that revealed his “broken heart.” This character’s countenance is described as “sad” since her face is “crisscrossed with tears / like a pear blossom bathed in springtime rain.” She tries to gaze into the heaven to see her own homeland, but only sees “dust and mist.” A priest visits the “blue beyond” and the “yellow springs” beneath the Earth in search of this character, but finds her in a tower on a mountain that rose “exquisitely through the vibrant clouds.” This character is skilled at performing the dance of rainbow skirts and feather robes. She breaks a golden hairpin and places it in a box to give to her lover at the end a poem in which ministers put her to death. Bo Juyi’s The Song of Unending Sorrow describes the love of Emperor Xuanzong toward, for 10 points, what ancient Chinese beauty?
Yang Guifei
9

145524-)
A character in this poem boasts that "he built a shit-house for Artaxerxes" and that he was the "spear in Balin's hand." As a character dies in this poem, his rifle is left in the “dews for it to rust” and “reflects the solemn star that rises urgently from Cliff Trench.” At the conclusion of this poem a character is given a "curious crown" made of "golden saxifrage," and another is given a "myrtle wand" by the mysterious Queen of the Woods. The title of the last section of this poem, "The Five Unmistakable Marks," is a reference The Hunting of the Snark; in that section, many of its main characters meet their death in the Mametz Woods. Published 20 years before its author's The Anathemata, each of this poem's parts begins with a quote from the medieval poem Y Gododdin. The author's time with the Royal Welch Fusiliers is reflected in the "eternal" soldier Dai Greatcoat in this poem, which features a soldier named John Ball fighting at the Somme. For 10 points, name this epic war poem by David Jones.
In Parenthesis
9

145531-)
This work cites the "monadic communion" study of Bela Grunberger, in which a man is suddenly cured of his maladies, to posit that "pre-subjects," or "non-selves," interact with an entity called "the with." It praises Dostoyevsky for being the first to realize that in the Modern Age, Christianity shifted from “angeletics” to “idiotics.” An "excursus" citing Innocent III suggests that Jesus was fed on an "infernal menu" of his mother's menstrual blood as part of this work’s argument that the "womb" is the origin of human ecstasy. The title structures are called "morpho-immunological constructs" in this work, which maintains that human beings experience an "indirect" relationship with nature. This work was conceived as a "spatial" counterpart to the "temporal" book Being and Time. Its first volume presents an "archaeology of the intimate," while a form of societal plurality is presented in its final volume, Foams. Globes and Bubbles are two books in, for 10 points, what trilogy, the magnum opus of Peter van Sloterdijk?
Spheres [prompt on Bubbles; do not accept or prompt on Globes or Foam.]
9

145540-)
Charles Armitage Brown loved the purity of this character so much that he could not "perceive" that her creator had written the scenes depicting the "vile crew [who] surround her." The only known 17th-century staging of the play in which this character appears was a bowdlerization by George Lillo, who renamed his adaptation after her. This character is described as "like Patience gazing on kings' graves, and smiling Extremity out of act." Cleon compares his wife to a "harpy" with an "angel face" and "eagle's talons" for ordering the servant Leonine to kill this character, who subsequently angers a Bawd, or a brothel owner, by instilling her would-be customers to virtue. This character's impending marriage to the governor of Mytilene ends the play, which is named for her father, who wanders the seas after thinking she has died. For 10 points, name this daughter of Pericles, Prince of Tyre, whose name reflects her birth on the ocean.
Marina [do not accept or prompt on “Marianna”]
9

145564-)
A poem dedicated to T.P. Flanagan analogizes “our unfenced country” to one of these areas “that keeps crusting / Between the sights of the sun.” The speaker observes Edmund Spenser, “encroached upon by / geniuses who creep / out of every corner” in a poem set in one of these areas; another poem, which begins: “I lay waiting / between turf-face and demesne wall, / between heathery levels / and glass-toothed stone,” is titled for a “Queen” of one of these places. An elegy for a “nameless, terrible” girl in one of these places who “outstar[es] / What had begun to feel like reverence,” is titled “Strange Fruit.” The speaker's “grandfather cut more turf / Than any other man” in one of these places in a poem that begins: “Between my finger and my pen / The squat pen rests; snug as a gun.” The 1975 collection North includes poems set in, for 10 points, what peat-filled areas found in Seamus Heaney's poetry?
bogs [or swamps; or marshes]
9

145577-)
Christopher Ricks wrote that he was moved to tears during the last 20 pages of Humphey Carpenter’s biography of this group, one of whose founders wrote a study of Louix XIV called The Splendid Century. Supposedly, members of this group would hold contests to see who could read aloud the awful prose of Amanda McKittrick Ros without bursting into laughter. Fictionalized members of this group escape from devious wendigos and travel to the Archipelago of Dreams in The Chronicles of the Imaginarium Geographica series. This group often met at “The Eagle and Child” pub, where one of its members would read out passages from Perelandra, and That Hideous Strength, two novels from his “Space Trilogy.” Oxford was the meeting place of, for 10 points, what whimsically-named group of British fantasy writers, which included C.S. Lewis and J. R. R. Tolkien?
Inklings [prompt on Lewis and friendies, and Tolkien and friendies]
9

145588-)
According to Arthur Murray, an author compared the “impudence” of people from this place to “the impudence of a leech, that fixes and sucks your blood.” That author bonds with his enemy Mr. Wilkes by trading insults about this place during an arranged dinner at the Dilly brother’s bookstore. Lydia Davis wrote a one-sentence story in which an author “is indignant that [this place] has so few trees.” After claiming “Many men. Many women. And many children” could write a poem by an author from here, another author began carrying an oak staff to protect himself. A work by that author calls oats “a grain, which in England is generally given to horses, but in [this place] supports the people.” The author of a travelogue documenting his “journey to the Western islands” of this country thought this itss people were barbarous, and denounced a poet from here who forged The Works of Ossian. For 10 points, name this country home to James Macpherson.
Scotland
9

145603-)
According to a “local historian”, one of the first women in charge of this place deliberately contracted smallpox to see which of her lovers, Charles Phelipson or Stephen Reynard, was more faithful. Many years after that incident involving Squire Dornell’s daughter Betty, another woman in this place married Edmund, a man whose face was disfigured in a fire. However, after that woman from here remarries Lord Uplandtowers, she gets a seizure when Uplandstower defaces a statue of Edmund. Two stories from the collection A Group of Noble Dames, including “Barbara of the House of Grebe”, are set in this place. The first so-called “cliffhanger” is set in this place, and centers on Elfride Swancourt and her two suitors: Henry Knight and Stephen Smith. For 10 points, name this fictional region that is the setting of A Pair of Blue Eyes, and The Mayor of Casterbridge.
Wessex
9

145628-)
This author addressed a “pure spirit” whose “sea is calm, the tempest past” in a poem set in some “deep impenetrable gloom,” near the “secrets of the skies.” A description of this author’s verse as “floating bubbles” and a “silken bubble” that “rides buoyant through the clouds” closes a poem that opens by comparing the Muses to “gossips.” As a critic, this author wrote a 50-volume study called The British Novelists, and wrote Eighteen Hundred and Eleven, a poem criticizing the Napoleonic wars. This author of many Lessons for Children wrote the poem “Dirge” after Rochemont, her husband, attacked her and then committed suicide. Her poem “Washing Day” describe the mundaneness of making breakfast and cleaning clothes and often appears in Romanticism anthologies. For 10 points, name this female poet whose good friends sometimes called her “Anna Letitia.”
Anna Letitia Barbauld
9

145633-)
This essay closes with the author quoting Kierkegaard’s “The Present Age” to describe an “all-embracing mirage.” Benedetto Croce’s assertion that “there are too many” Waverley novels is discussed in a part of this essay tracing one of its title concepts to Walter Scott. This essay notes Vance Packard summarized academia’s “sensational findings” under catchy titles like The Hidden Persuaders. First appearing in the 1962 collection Against the American Grain, it savages Thornton Wilder’s Our Town and Hemingway’s The Old Man and the Sea. This essay was written by an author who savaged James Gould Cozzens’ novel By Loved Possessed. Its second title phenomenon seeks to “please the crowd by any means” while pretending to maintain the standards of “High Culture,” but without the authenticity of “lowbrow” experiences. For 10 points, name this essay by Dwight Macdonald.
“Masscult and Midcult”
9

145644-)
Some have argued that the casting of unknown actress Elizabeth James as the supposed "romantic lead" in this play belies Norman Holland's 1959 interpretation that it modeled both "wrong" and "right" versions of love. A version of this play with a slightly different name depicts the romance between Belville and "Miss Peggy" and is by David Garrick. In another play, Eliza says she will see this play, the work of a "beastly author," even though Olivia claims it has "sullied" the reputation of certain pretty objects owned by women. Thomas Macaulay called this play "safe, because it is too filthy to handle." The husband of Lady Fidget and the grandmother of Mrs. Squeamish are unaware that Horner's conversation with two women about "china" is a double entendre in, for 10 points, what Restoration comedy about a man who poses as impotent so he can have affairs, written by William Wycherley?
The Country Wife [or The Country Girl]
9

145671-)
This book cites the author Levinus Lemnius to suggest that music is an “inamorato” that “capers in deceit all day long.” The author of this book lets his imagination soar like a “long-winged hawk” and travel to “ethereal orbs” and “celestial spheres” using Lucian of Samosata’s Icaromenippus and the Wandering Jews as guides. That section of this book “A Digression of the Air” is said to be the first ever treatise on climatology. The opening of this book contains a poem describing Superstiosus and Hellebor, two allegorical figures in a set of ten panels on this book’s frontispiece. The preface of this work features a poem addressed “to the reader who employs his leisure time ill.” Several “numbers”, “sections”, and “subsections” comprise the three “partitions” of this book, which are ascribed to Democritus Junior. For 10 points, name this text by Robert Burton, in which he was stricken with “black bile.”
The Anatomy of Melancholy
9

145687-)
In one of these texts, their author compares the monetary value of the 442 books he owns to the number of cigarettes he smokes in a year. Another of these texts compares the "period atmosphere" of "Raffles, the amateur cracksman" with James Chase's novels featuring "Miss Blandish". Yet a third one of these texts asserts "there is no test of literary merit but survival" and claims like "[King] Lear", "Tolstoy was not humble and not a good judge of character". A three-part one of these works praises the book Max and the White Phagocytes for being written from the perspective of Jonah. These texts include a criticism of Elizabeth Jones and Karl Hulten, who lacked "depth" when they killed a taxi driver for eight pounds. A review of Henry Miller's Tropic of Cancer called "Inside the Whale" is an example of, for 10 points, what nonfiction works, which also include "The Decline of the English Murder?"
essays by George Orwell [prompt on Orwell non-fiction or books by Orwell]
9

145728-)
In a play titled for one of these things, a gossip columnist named Crowquill tries to get scandalous material on a friend of Saville. In that play titled for one of these things, Sir George releases the goldfinch of Lady Frances, and Letitia Hardy feigns ignorance so that she can woo her future husband Doricourt at a masquerade. In addition to that play by Hannah Cowley titled for one of these belonging to a "belle", another of these things titles a play in which the servant Scrub announces that the chaplain Gloss is trying to steal the jewels of Mrs. Sullen. That play set in the city of Lichfield named for one of these things opens at the Boniface Inn, where the two title characters agree to split the share they get from marrying rich wives, such as Lady Bountiful and Boniface. Archer and Aimwell are the title "beaux" that concoct, for 10 points, what kind of scheme that titles a comedy by George Farquhar?
stratagem [or accept The Belle's Stratagem or The Beaux' Stratagem; prompt on belle or beaux]
9

145737-)
Alan Grob's A Longing Like Despair claims that this poem illustrates the pessimism of its author since its second-half describes "bursting figs" and "tunnies steep'd in brine" but no people. The speaker of this poem describes a society “whose vague resolves never have been fulfill’d” and who “hesitate and falter life away.” This poem’s speaker claims that “repeated shocks, again, again, / exhaust the energy of the strongest souls” but the title figure is “free from the sick fatigue, the languid doubt”. The title character was “born in days when wits were fresh and clear” in a time before the "strange disease of modern life” in this poem in which the speaker awaits “the spark from Heaven” as described in "[Joseph] Glanvil’s book.” At its beginning, the speaker tells a shepherd that “they call him from the hill.” For 10 points, name this poem about a former Oxford student, written by Matthew Arnold.
“The Scholar-Gipsy”
9

145769-)
In 2005, David Hare introduced a videotaped speech in which this other author accused the U.S. of supporting every right-wing dictatorship since World War II and condemned the invasion of Iraq. In that speech, this man contrasted political speech with the theatrical language of his plays Mountain Language and Ashes to Ashes. This deliverer of the speech “Language, Truth, and Politics” wrote of the famous author Hirst and three hangers-on named Briggs, Foster, and Spooner in No Man's Land, which deconstructs his country's genre of “well-made plays”. Irving Wardle used the phrase “comedy of (*) menace” to describe this man's early plays, one of which centers on McCann and Goldberg, who interrupt Stanley Webber's attempts to celebrate the title event. For 10 points, what Nobel Prize-winning British playwright of The Birthday Party wrote about two hit men in a basement in The Dumb Waiter?
Harold Pinter &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145781-)
This man wrote of a “fisherman's boy” who “shouts with his sister at play” in a short poem whose repetitive title phrase is followed by “on thy cold gray stones, O sea!” In another short poem by this author, the title animal stands “ring'd with the azure world”, watching “from his mountain walls”, and “like a thunderbolt he falls”. This author wrote that “the woods decay, the woods decay and fall” at the beginning of a poem about a man who only consumes “cruel (*) immortality” that provided the title for Aldous Huxley's novel After Many a Summer Dies the Swan. This author of “Break, Break, Break”, “The Eagle”, and “Tithonus” wrote “theirs not to reason why; / theirs but to do and die” in a poem that describes how “the six hundred” rode “half a league onward” into the “valley of Death”. For 10 points, name this British poet of “The Charge of the Light Brigade”.
Alfred, Lord Tennyson [or Alfred Tennyson] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145789-)
A poem sometimes titled as a “poem from” this modern-day country is a mantra that the author would recite while brushing his teeth that begins “brush your teeth up and down, brother”. A condemned man from this country avoids a puddle on the way to the gallows, inspiring a reflection on death, in the essay “A Hanging”. The Indian Dr. Veraswami and Elizabeth Lackersteen appear in a novel in which John Flory is a teak merchant in this country. The narrator performs the title action “solely to (*) avoid looking a fool” in an essay set in this country's city of Moulmein. Before publishing a memoir about poverty in Paris and London, a man named Eric Arthur Blair served as a colonial policeman in this country, which inspired his essay “Shooting an Elephant”. For 10 points, name this country, once a British colony, the setting of a novel titled for its “days” that was written by George Orwell.
Burma [accept Myanmar; accept Burmese Days or “Poem from Burma”] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145834-)
This poet wrote of a being that is “darkly wise, and rudely great”, who has “too much knowledge for the skeptic side” and “too much weakness for the Stoic's pride”, in a long poem that he prefaced with a prose essay called “The Design”. This man's friend John Caryll recounted an anecdote about two feuding Catholic families that inspired a long poem by this man. In a poem that contains the couplet “go, teach Eternal Wisdom how to rule— / then drop into thyself, and be a fool!”, this man wrote that people must accept that “whatever IS, is RIGHT”. The real-life story of (*) Arabella Fermor inspired a long poem by this man in which Ariel, the “guardian Sylph” of the virginal Belinda, attempts to stop The Baron from snipping off some of her hair. For 10 points, name this English poet and satirist who wrote An Essay on Man and the mock epic The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145850-)
One poem titled for a worker in this profession claims that “God and his priest and king...make up a heaven of our misery”. Another poem titled for a worker in this profession tells of “Dick, Joe, Ned, and Jack”, who realize that “if all do their duty they need not fear harm” after a dream in which an angel with a key frees them from “coffins of black”. A laborer of this type titles a poem that begins “when my mother died I was very young”, which is contrasted with another poem in which one of these laborers is crying (*) “weep! weep! in notes of woe”. A poem titled for one of these laborers describes Tom Dacre, who cried when his head was shaved, causing the speaker to reassure him that “the soot cannot spoil your white hair”. William Blake wrote both a “song of experience” and a “song of innocence” about children who work as, for 10 points, what kind of laborer who clears ash from fireplaces?
chimney sweepers [or chimney sweeps; accept any answer mentioning chimneys and the idea of sweeping or cleaning] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145859-)
A 1978 novel by Andrew Holleran is titled after a line that this author wrote in a poem that describes the title characters' wonder at a “sixty-year-old smiling public man” interrupting their attempts to “learn to cipher and to sing”. This man's Last Poems concludes with a short lyric about what a “travelled man” and a “politician” say about “war and war's alarms” entitled “Politics”, which appears immediately after a poem by this man that begins “I sought a theme and sought for it in vain” and ends with this man “[lying] down where all the ladders start”. This poet of “The (*) Circus Animals' Desertion” asked “how can we know the dancer from the dance?” at the end of his poem “Among School Children”. He wrote of the “widening gyre” of a falcon's flight in a poem in which a “rough beast” “slouches towards Bethlehem to be born”. For 10 points, name this Irish poet of “The Second Coming”.
William Butler Yeats
6

145867-)
In one work, this man used an elaborate series of correspondences to a fictionalized Japan to satirize English politics during the Seven Years' War. This man's dour attitude toward innkeepers and foreigners led him to be satirized as “Smelfungus” in Laurence Sterne's A Sentimental Journey, which was inspired by this man's travelogue Travels through France and Italy. Cadwallader Crabtree and Hawser Trunnion appear in a 1751 novel by this man that includes Frances Vane's The Memoirs of a Lady of Quality in its pages. A carriage overturns into a river next to Mr. Dennison's house, leading to the revelation that the title character is Matthew (*) Bramble's son, in this author's novel The Expedition of Humphry Clinker. For 10 points, name this 18th-century Scottish author of the comedic picaresques The Adventures of Peregrine Pickle and The Adventures of Roderick Random.
Tobias Smollett [or Tobias George Smollett] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145881-)
In one scene, this character declares “myself could...out-frown false fortune's frown” after asserting that “We are not the first who, with best meaning, have incurr'd the worst”. An unnamed knight is told to go to Dover and is given a ring that will identify him to this character in one scene, while in another this character laments “Unhappy that I am, I cannot heave my heart into my mouth” after twice repeating the word “nothing”, prompting another character to rage (*) “nothing will come of nothing; speak again!” This character's last onstage appearance begins with another character saying “Howl, howl, howl, howl!” and demanding a looking-glass to try to detect this character's breath. In the final act, this character leads an army alongside her husband, the King of France, but is captured and hanged on the orders of Edmund. For 10 points, name this sister of Regan and Goneril, the youngest daughter of King Lear.
Cordelia &lt;Carson&gt;
6

145908-)
A poem from this animal's perspective asks “Can I remember if thou forget?” and addresses “Swallow, my sister, O sister swallow”. A Wordsworth poem describes this animal as “a creature of a 'fiery heart.'“ A poem about this animal laments that “youths and maidens” “heave their sighs” over its “pity-pleading strains” rather than share in “Nature's immortality”, and dismisses Milton's description of it as “most melancholy” in “Il Penseroso”. The narrator of Swinburne's “Itylus” and the subject of a conversation poem by Coleridge are both this type of (*) bird. The speaker of a poem titled for them exclaims “Forlorn! The very word is like a bell” and says he “has been half in love with easeful death”. That poem begins “My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains / My sense” and asks “Do I wake or sleep?” For 10 points, name this “immortal bird” who “wast not born for death” according to a John Keats ode.
nightingales &lt;Kothari&gt;
6

145912-)
This author created the sycophantic Reverend Thomas Tufthunt in an unfinished novel whose central character, known as George Brandon, marries a 15-year-old named Caroline Gann. This author of A Shabby Genteel Story profiled a colonel whose son, Clive, is training to be a painter in his long novel The Newcomes, which the Oxford English Dictionary credits as the first book to mention the word “capitalism”. This man, who published early works under the pseudonyms George Savage (*) Fitz-Boodle, Charles James Yellowplush, and Michael Angelo Titmarsh, created a character who survives the Battle of Kunersdorf before marrying a wealthy noblewoman and winning a seat in Parliament. Dobbin survives the Battle of Waterloo, which kills George Osborne, in a “novel without a hero” by this author. For 10 points, name this author of The Lucky of Barry Lyndon and Vanity Fair.
William Makepeace Thackeray &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145929-)
This poet used two-syllable lines in his short lyric “Upon His Departure Hence”, which begins “thus I / pass by / and die: / as one / unknown / and gone”. He wrote “get up, get up for shame, the blooming morne” in a poem whose title is referenced in a line that follows “then while time serves, and we are but decaying”. He praised a “careless shoe-string” that presents a “wild civility” and does “more bewitch me, then when art / is too precise in every part” in his poem about slovenly-dressed women entitled (*) “Delight in Disorder”. This poet of “Corinna's Going a-Maying” wrote that “old time is still a-flying” and “tomorrow will be dying” in a carpe diem poem that begins “gather ye rosebuds while ye may”. For 10 points, name this English poet whose collection Hesperides contains his poem “To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time”.
Robert Herrick &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145960-)
One poet with this surname used Matthew 7:14, “straight is the gate, and narrow is the way”, as the epigraph for a poem that begins “believe not those who say / the upward path is smooth” entitled “The Narrow Way”. Another poet with this surname wrote “I die but when the grave shall press / the heart so long endeared to thee” at the beginning of the poem “Lines”. That poet with this surname wrote a poem styled as the suicide letter of Fernando De Samara to a queen named Augusta Almeda. The Angria poems written by two authors with this surname inspired by the later (*) Gondal poems written by two other authors with this surname. Three authors with this surname collaborated on the collection Poems by Currer, Ellis, and Acton Bell. For 10 points, give this surname of the authors of Agnes Grey, Jane Eyre, and Wuthering Heights, whose first names were Anne, Charlotte, and Emily.
Brontë [accept the Brontës; accept Bell or Bells before “Bell”] &lt;Hart&gt;
6

145976-)
This author's courting of the Dutch writer Isabelle de Charrière while he was studying law in Utrecht is discussed in a 2001 Adam Sisman biography titled for this man's “presumptuous task”. John Croker's 1831 edition of this man's best-known work was savaged by Thomas Macaulay, who called this man a “great fool” who had no ideas of his own. This man's account of his mentor's habit of shaking, rubbing his knees, and repeating the word “too” while in conversation have led modern scholars to speculate that this author's mentor had (*) Tourette's syndrome. This author discussed a cantankerous, half-deaf subject in a work preceded by the shorter The Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides. For 10 points, name this Scottish author who profiled the writer of Rasselas and A Dictionary of the English Language in his The Life of Samuel Johnson.
James Boswell &lt;Hart&gt;
6

146002-)
One poem in this collection consists of a discussion with an eight-year-old whose “eyes were fair, and very fair”, who describes her siblings, noting that two of them dwell in Conway, two of them have gone to sea, and two of them “in the church-yard lie”. The claim that “all good poetry is the spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings” comes from the preface to this collection, which was written by a poet who included “We Are (*) Seven” in it. A long poem in this collection is told to a “Wedding-Guest”, and its concluding poem, which is addressed to the poet's sister Dorothy, opens by stating that “five years have past” since the poet last visited a building on the banks of the River Wye. For 10 points, name this collection that concludes with “Rime of the Ancient Mariner” and “Tintern Abbey”, written by its two contributors, Samuel Taylor Coleridge and William Wordsworth.
Lyrical Ballads &lt;Hart&gt;
6

146006-)
. This character says “it is not that I am so clever, but that the others are so stupid” in a dialogue with her brother's guardian Pothinus. She barely escapes a shipwreck and smuggles herself into a man's lighthouse headquarters in a play in which she has a nurse named Ftatateeta (f'tah-tuh-TEE-tuh). John Fletcher and Philip Massinger's play The False One and John Dryden's play All For Love were inspired by a play in which the “winds were (*) lovesick” for the perfumed purple sails of this woman's barge. She emerges out of a rolled-up carpet in one play, while in another, she describes being “green in judgment” during her “salad days”. Enobarbus says that “age cannot wither” this character, “nor custom stale / her infinite variety”. George Bernard Shaw wrote about “Caesar and”, for 10 points, what woman who commits suicide by asp in a Shakespeare play about her love for Mark Antony?
Cleopatra VII Philopator [accept Caesar and Cleopatra or Antony and Cleopatra] &lt;Hart&gt; Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament 2016: A Vat of Ranch Dressing or a Bullet to the Head Questions by Sam Bailey, Rob Carson, Mike Cheyne, Akhil Garg, Carsten Gehring, Andrew Hart, Ike Jose, Shan Kothari, Cody Voight, Najwa Watson, and NOT Cory Haala Packet 12: Bonuses
6

146012-)
A speech given before this event describes a figure moving “with Tarquin's ravishing strides” after which the speaker begs the “sure and firm-set earth” to “hear not my steps”. The man who performs this action worries that “sightless couriers of the air” will blow news of it “in every eye”, creating tears to “drown the wind”, in a speech that vows “here, upon this bank and shoal of time, we'd jump the life to come”. A character imagines a voice crying “sleep no more” while performing this action, which is later attributed to two drunk (*) chamberlains. In the aftermath of this action, its performers hear the “knocking at the gate” analyzed in a Thomas de Quincey essay. This action's perpetrator is told “screw your courage to the sticking-place” and is briefly dissuaded from it by a vision of a bloody dagger. For 10 points, name this event that occurs at a castle in Inverness, causing Malcolm and Donalbain to flee and opening Macbeth's path to the Scottish throne.
the murder of King Duncan in Macbeth [accept synonyms for murder like assassination or killing; prompt on partial answers or less specific answers like “the assassination in Macbeth” or “the murder of the king”] &lt;Carson&gt;
6

146046-)
Passages from this novel, in a translation to the French done by S. David, appear in Gregoire Boullier's The Mystery Guest, which includes a quote about how this novel's central character loves roses, which are the “only flowers she could bear to see cut”. Adam, the protagonist of David Lodge's novel The British Museum Is Falling Down, imagines that he sees this novel's title character at a very old age. This novel's title character, whose daughter Elizabeth is taught by Miss Kilman, first appeared in a short story set “in Bond Street”. This novel's title character remembers (*) kissing Sally Seton and hears about the suicide of a World War I veteran who jumped out a window named Septimus Smith during this novel's climactic party. For 10 points, name this novel by Virginia Woolf titled for a woman named Clarissa.
Mrs. Dalloway &lt;Hart&gt;
6

146065-)
Critics who deem a secondary character in this work feminine “in the pejorative sense of the word” are attacked in an essay by Carolyn Heilbrun. This work is said to be “bigger than any of the frames of reference it inhabits” in an essay about its “Value” by Stephen Booth. A speech in this work describes the “respect that makes Calamity of so long life” and describes a “ a consummation devoutly to be wished”. This play was deemed an “artistic failure” for not finding an adequate (*) “objective correlative” for its protagonist’s emotions in a T.S. Eliot essay about that character’s “Problems”. A speech in this play calls death “the undiscovered country” and debates the nobility of suffering “the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune”. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play that contains a soliloquy that begins “To be, or not to be…”
Hamlet [or The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark]
6

146083-)
This author wrote that “Magnanimous Despair alone / Could show me so divine a thing” as the title subject of one of his poems. That poem ends by identifying its subject as “the conjunction of the mind, and opposition of the stars”. Another poem by this author of “The Definition of Love” imagines “Fond lovers, cruel as their flame” and describes a futile search “in busy companies of men” for “Fair Quiet”. This man described the mind as creating “far other worlds, and other seas” and “annihilating all that’s made / to a (*) green thought in a green shade” in that poem. In another poem, he wrote that “The grave's a fine and private place” and suggested rolling “all our strength and all / Our sweetness up into one ball”. For 10 points, name this author of “The Garden” who lamented “Had we but world enough and time” in “To His Coy Mistress”.
Andrew Marvell
6

146092-)
A character in this novel throws a bunch of vegetables over a wall in order to show his affection for the protagonist’s mother. Mr. Lillyvick is dumped by his wife Henriette Petowker in this novel, which also features a character known as “the infant phenomenon” who is the star attraction of the troupe led by her parents, the Crummles. In this novel, Lord Verisopht is killed in a duel by Sir Mulberry Hawk, who attempts to force himself on the protagonist’s sister (*) Kate, who later marries Frank Cheeryble. The protagonist of this novel gets a job at Dotheboys Hall, where he saves Smike from a beating at the hands of the villainous Wackford Squeers, which in turn causes a continuing conflict with the protagonist’s uncle Ralph. For 10 points, name this alliteratively-titled novel by Charles Dickens.
Nicholas Nickleby [or The Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby]
6

146140-)
A member of this family is blackmailed into giving his horse Gipsy to a character who he dubs an “imp of Satan”. A character who often uses the word “flaysome” and other incomprehensible bits of Yorkshire dialect, the servant Joseph, initially appears in the employ of this family. After the death of another member of this family, the hairs of two different people end up entwined in her locket. A member of this family is bitten by a dog named Skulker and forced to recuperate at (*) Thrushcross Grange in a flashback related by Nelly Dean. That member of this family chooses to marry Edgar Linton, prompting the drawn-out revenge plotted by Heathcliff. Hareton, Hindley, and Catherine are members of, for 10 points, which family created by Emily Bronte, the original owners of Wuthering Heights?
the Earnshaw family
6

146159-)
A poem by this author describes the “land of lost content” and asks “What are those blue remembered hills[?]” This poet observed “the old wind in the old anger” leaving the wood in trouble in the title place of another of his poems, which ends with a line describing “ashes under Uricon”. This poet’s unrequited love for Moses Jackson is the subject of Tom Stoppard’s play The Invention of Love. He noted that “early though the laurel grows, it (*) withers quicker than the rose” in a poem about a “townsman of a stiller town”. Another of his poems quotes a “wise man” who advises the speaker to “Give crowns and pounds and guineas, but not your heart away”. For 10 points, name this English poet who included “On Wenlock Edge”, “To an Athlete Dying Young” and “When I Was One-and-Twenty” in his collection A Shropshire Lad.
A.E. Housman [or Alfred Edward Housman]
6

146182-)
A character in this play claims to have an “answer that fits all questions”, which he compares to “a barber’s chair that fits all buttocks”. That character, a clown named Lavache, verbally spars with the Countess, who advises her son to “Love all, trust a few, do wrong to none”. A group of lords in this play arrange a ploy in which the retrieval of a drum is used as a pretext to reveal the cowardice of Parolles. In this play, (*) Lafew arranges for the King to be cured of a fistula by the daughter of Gerard de Narbon, who then fakes her own death and travels to Florence, where she switches places with Diana in order to fulfill the conditions of a challenge set by the Count of Rousillon, namely to acquire his signet ring and bear his child. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy about Bertram and Helena, whose fractious marriage is repaired by play’s end.
All’s Well That Ends Well
6

146194-)
One of this man’s novels is set in a town that provides a mixed reception to the passionate artist Max Sattler, condemns the protagonist’s mediocre rival Christoff, and supports the drunk conductor Brodsky. James Wood claimed that a novel by this man had “invented its own category of badness”; in that novel, the amnesiac pianist Ryder continually fails to get to a concert. The protagonist of another of his novels fires two Jewish (*) maids while his employer is associating with the fascist Mrs. Barnet. In his most famous novel, the protagonist takes a motoring trip at the behest of Mr. Farraday after receiving a letter from Miss Kenton, during which he practices his banter and reflects on his time working for Lord Darlington. For 10 points, name this author of The Unconsoled who wrote about the butler Stevens in The Remains of the Day.
Kazuo Ishiguro [accept names in either order]
6

146195-)
. A character in this poem describes another person as “drooping, woeful wan, like one forlorn” and is himself described as a “hoary-headed swain”. This poem describes how “Chill Penury” froze the “genial current of the soul” in the stanza after it imagines a “heart once pregnant with celestial fire”. It claims that “all that beauty, all that wealth e'er gave, awaits alike the inevitable hour” because “The paths of (*) glory lead but to the grave”. This poem also hypothesizes about “some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood” or “some mute inglorious Milton”, and it coined the phrase “far from the madding crowd”. For 10 points, the line “The curfew tolls the knell of parting day” opens which poem set in a cemetery and written by Thomas Gray?
“Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”
6

146215-)
The third section of this poem describes a man who “saw in sleep old palaces and towers” after being “Lull'd by the coil of his crystàlline streams”. Its first section describes “Yellow, and black, and pale, and hectic red, / pestilence- stricken multitudes” and addresses a “destroyer and preserver”. This poem’s first three stanzas end with the exhortation “O hear!” Its subject is described as “tameless, (*) swift, and proud” shortly after the dramatic declaration “I fall upon the thorns of life! I bleed!” The speaker asks the title entity to “Drive my dead thoughts over the universe, / Like wither'd leaves” in this poem, which concludes by asking “If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?” For 10 points, name this poem addressed to a “breath of Autumn’s being”, written by Percy Shelley.
“Ode to the West Wind”
6

146234-)
This author suggested the name of the Gaia hypothesis to his close friend James Lovelock. A group of characters in a novel by this author are capable of telepathically sharing “pictures” and worship a huge ice block called Oa. Another of this author’s characters obsessively repeats his address, “The Vicarage, Harcourt St. Anthony, Hants”, as well as his name, Percival Wemys Madison. In one of this man’s novels, Vivani adopts the New One after Fa’s disappearance causes Lok to die in despair. In addition to that book about a dying (*) Neanderthal tribe, he wrote a novel whose protagonist weeps for “the end of innocence” in the final scene. The twins Sam and Eric are tortured by Roger, who drops a boulder that breaks the conch and kills Piggy, in this man’s first novel. For 10 points, name this author of The Inheritors and The Lord of the Flies.
William Golding [or William Gerald Golding]
6

146254-)
In a comic scene in this novel, Cain Ball repeatedly chokes and coughs on a crumb, a flea, and some cider while trying to relate events he’d seen in Bath. A character in this novel assists another in collecting bees into a hive before impressing her with a display of flashy swordsmanship. Another character in this novel is rehired for his bloat-curing abilities despite having rebuked his employer for sending a valentine reading (*) “marry me”. This novel’s protagonist marries a man who pretends to have drowned after a riptide sweeps him out to sea shortly after learning of the death of Fanny Robin. For 10 points, name this novel in which the tragic clash between Farmer Boldwood and Sergeant Troy allows Bathsheba Everdene to find love with Gabriel Oak, written by Thomas Hardy.
Far from the Madding Crowd
6

146275-)
In one poem, this author described “gazing on the new soft-fallen mask / of snow upon the mountains and the moors” and watching “the moving waters at their priestlike task / of pure ablution”. Another of his poems is set in a place where “the sedge has wither’d from the lake / and no birds sing”, where the speaker is “alone and palely loitering”. One of this man’s poems follows the title phrase with the wish “would I were (*) steadfast as thou art”, while the speaker of another sees “pale kings and princes too” in a dream after being lulled to sleep by the title character, who took him to her “elfin grot”. For 10 points, name this poet of “Bright Star” and “La Belle Dame Sans Merci”, who claimed that “Beauty is truth, truth beauty” in his “Ode on a Grecian Urn”.
John Keats
6

146291-)
One of this author’s poems compares its subject to an Alcestis saved from “spot of childbed taint” by “purification in the old law”, and presents a dream vision that ends when the poet wakes, after which its subject “fled, and day brought back my night”. Another of this author’s poems describes a time “when all our fathers worshipped stocks and stones”, opens “Avenge, O Lord, thy slaughtered saints”, and is about the murder of some Waldensians. This author’s sonnets include (*) “Methought I Saw My Late Espoused Saint” and “On the Late Massacre in Piedmont”, and one which ends with the line “They also serve who only stand and wait”. “When I Consider How My Light Is Spent”, also known as “On His Blindness”, is the best-known sonnet by, for 10 points, which poet, who wrote Paradise Lost?
John Milton
6

146311-)
In the tenth chapter of this novel, the protagonist receives unhelpful advice about having the tailor Tookey make him a Sunday suit from Mr. Macey but is cheered by the famous lard-cakes provided by a wheelwright’s wife. A character in this novel dies after a late-night ride in which he cripples his brother’s prize horse Wildfire. Another character in this novel is able to marry (*) Nancy Lammeter after revealing that his previous wife, the opium addict Molly Farren, had frozen to death. The protagonist of this novel is framed for theft by William Dane and kicked out of Lantern Yard, then later has his hoard of gold stolen by Dunstan Cass, but eventually finds happiness after adopting Eppie. For 10 points, identify this 1861 novel about a “weaver of Raveloe”, written by George Eliot.
Silas Marner: The Weaver of Raveloe
6

146329-)
Nevil Shute took the epigraph for his novel On the Beach from this poem. The second section of this poem lists such “deliberate disguises” as “rat’s coat, crowskin, crossed staves / In a field”, while its first section includes the paradoxical phrases “shape without form, shade without colour” and “gesture without motion”. Its third section describes figures “gathered on this beach of the tumid river” and begins with the line “The (*) eyes are not here”, echoing its earlier image of “eyes I dare not meet in dreams”. This poem’s final section describes seven pairs of locations between which “falls the shadow”, opens with a faux-nursery rhyme beginning “Here we go ‘round the prickly pear”, and ends with the lines “This is the way the world ends / Not with a bang but with a whimper”. For 10 points, name this poem by T.S. Eliot.
“The Hollow Men”
6

146335-)
While at this specific place, one character orders another to “seal up the mouth of outrage for a while”. While approaching this structure, a character describes a “canopy” of “dust and stones -- which with sweet water nightly I will dew”. Another character rushes to this location after learning that town searchers had sealed two people in a house due to plague-related suspicion. While inside this structure, one character notes that “beauty's ensign yet is crimson in thy lips and in thy cheeks”, regarding a character who later tells a “happy (*) dagger” that “this is thy sheath”. Count Paris dies in a duel in front of this place, where the Prince delivers a line beginning “For never was a story of more woe”. The final scene of a 1595 play takes place in and around, for 10 points, what building in a churchyard where miscommunication results in the consecutive suicides of Romeo and Juliet?
the Capulet tomb [accept synonyms like crypt; prompt on things like “graveyard” or “churchyard”]
6

146342-)
. A literary character living in this city receives a telegram informing him that two black owls have returned to Tankerton Hall, prompting him to kill himself. The creation of a book partly named for this city involved voluminous contributions from W.C. Minor, who was confined to an insane asylum at the time. The Barley Mow and the Bull Inn are among the stops on a journey to this city undertaken by George, Carl, J., and Montmorency the dog. This city “needs not June for beauty's heightening” according to (*) Matthew Arnold’s “Thyrsis”, which more famously calls it a “sweet city” with “dreaming spires”. This setting of Zuleika Dobson and destination of the Three Men in a Boat is where Charles Ryder meets Sebastian Flyte in Brideshead Revisited. For 10 points, name this city whose namesake university’s press produces a famous dictionary.
Oxford
6

146344-)
In one appearance, this character throws a bowl of soup at a wall, switches the signs on displays of oranges and nuts, and breaks a shop window, as discovered by a character trailing him. This character claims that “reason is always reasonable” in an argument with a character whose sleeve has a suspicious bulge that this character identifies as a “spiked bracelet”. This character is rarely seen without his large umbrella. In “The Flying Stars”, this character secures the assistance of a man who’d initially opposed both him and Inspector (*) Valentin in their first appearance, “The Blue Cross”. In later stories, he is often assisted by the reformed jewel thief Hercule Flambeau. For 10 points, name this Catholic priest who stars in a number of detective stories by G.K. Chesterton.
Father Brown
6

146371-)
This event titles a George Herbert poem that uses varying line lengths to look like the title “wings.” A poem titled for this event claims “Too long a sacrifice can make a stone of the heart” and describes people coming “from counter or desk among grey eighteenth-century houses” with “vivid faces.” The speaker of that poem titled for this event recalls sharing “polite (*) meaningless words” with “MacDonagh and MacBride and Connolly and Pearse,” and concludes: “all [is] changed, changed utterly: a terrible beauty is born.” For 10 points, what Christian holiday titles a W.B. Yeats poem commemorating a failed Irish uprising in 1916?
Easter [accept “Easter Wings”; accept “Easter, 1916”; accept Easter rising, Easter Rebellion, etc.; accept Eiri Amach na Casca] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146379-)
A man from this modern country is told to “put some juldee in it” or he’ll be “marrowed” by a group of soldiers. That man from this modern country is called “Lazaruthian leather” and then says “I ‘ope you liked your drink” before being shot. A poem contrasts this modern country with safe quarter where “you may talk o’ gin and beer.” The speaker of that poem says “by the living Gawd that made you, you’re a (*) better man than I am!” to the title water-carrier from this modern country. This country is the setting of Rudyard Kipling’s “Gunga Din” and a novel in which Adela Quested is supposedly raped by Dr. Aziz. For 10 points, E.M. Forster wrote about a Passage to which modern country?
(British) India [accept A Passage to India] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146401-)
A character in this novel disguises himself as a woman named Mother Bunches and tells his future wife her fortune. The protagonist of this novel befriends a classmate who was reading Samuel Johnson’s book Rasselas. In this novel, Miss Temple protects students from the wrath of a man whose negligence leads the protagonist’s best friend to (*) die of typhus. A Jamaican woman in this novel gave the title to the book The Madwoman in the Attic. In this novel, Grace Poole is blamed for strange occurrences at Thornfield Hall that were actually done by Bertha Mason, the first wife of Edward Rochester. For 10 points, name this novel about a governess, by Charlotte Brontë.
Jane Eyre: An Autobiography &lt;MK&gt;
3

146405-)
These animals cry “What I do is me: for that I came” by catching fire, in a poem that compares them to dragonflies drawing flame. The speaker’s “heart in hiding” stirred for one of these animals in a poem that begins “I caught this morning morning’s minion.” One of these animals is compared to a “poet hidden in the light of thought.” (*) Gerard Manley Hopkins called one of them “dapple-dawn-drawn.” Another of these animals pours its full heart in “profuse strains of unpremeditated art,” and is asked to “Teach me half the gladness that thy brain must know.” For 10 points, name this kind of animal that Percy Shelley hailed as a “blithe Spirit” in “To a Skylark.”
birds [accept more specific answers like kingfishers, windhovers, falcons, or skylarks] &lt;JR&gt; Bonuses
3

146413-)
In this play, a character’s father is impersonated by a random Pedant from the street, leading to a near-arrest. Two men in this play disguise themselves as a music teacher and a Latin instructor in order to compete for time alone with a girl. At the end of this play, the title character starts a speech with the line “Fie, fie, unknit that threatening unkind brow”, and calls her (*) husband “thy lord, thy life, thy keeper.” Gremio and Lucentio are suitors in this play, and its plot is spurred by Baptista requiring his eldest daughter to be married before his youngest daughter Bianca. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play about Petruchio's subduing of the title strong woman, Katherina.
The Taming of the Shrew &lt;LL&gt;
3

146438-)
One of this author’s protagonists tries to buy illegal wine in Carmen, but a yellow-toothed man insists on guiding him. In that novel by this author, the protagonist is hidden by Coral Fellows in a barn, and is met at a wharf by the dentist Mr. Tench. That novel by this author ends after its protagonist attempts to give the last (*) rites to a dying man and is executed by the Lieutenant. This Catholic wrote a novel in which a vacuum cleaner salesman sends misinformation to MI6 and another novel in which a “whiskey priest” is betrayed by the mestizo. For 10 points, name this 20th-century English author of Our Man in Havana and The Power and the Glory.
Graham Greene &lt;JR&gt;
3

146457-)
This poet memorialized a friend who was “nursed upon the self-same hill” and “fed the same flock” and who died when the “remorseless deep…closed over his head.” He wrote a pair of contrasting poems that begin “Hence vain deluding joys” and “Hence, loathèd melancholy.” This poet described a spirit that (*) “Dove-like sat brooding on the vast abyss, and made it pregnant.” His medium-length poems include “L’Allegro,” “Il Penseroso,” and “Lycidas.” A long poem by this man promises to tell “of man’s first disobedience” and includes speeches by a hopelessly charismatic Satan. For 10 points, name this 17th-century English poet of Paradise Lost.
John Milton &lt;JR&gt;
3

146472-)
In a play by this author, Don Whiskerandos appears in a play-within-a-play called The Spanish Armada, written by Mr. Puff. In another play by this author, a character constantly uses mild swears like “Odds whips and wheels,” while a woman describes a man as “the very pine-apple of politeness.” Sir Oliver disguises himself as Mr. Premium in a play by this author that centers around the brothers Charles and Joseph (*) Surface. The word “malapropism” comes from Mrs. Malaprop, a character created by this author in a play that details Jack’s relationship with Lydia Languish. For 10 points, name this 18th-century author of The Critic, The School for Scandal, and The Rivals.
Richard Brinsley (Butler) Sheridan &lt;LL&gt;
3

146501-)
A lawyer in this novel washes his hands obsessively to keep his hands clean from criminal activity, making him smell like soap. In the revised ending of this novel, the protagonist holds hands with a widow in a garden. That garden in this novel is located in the ruins of Satis House, which contained many clocks all stopped at the exact same time. At the beginning of this novel, the protagonist helps (*) free a man who later fights Compeyson after having relocated to Australia. The protagonist of this novel loves Miss Havisham’s ward Estella. Abel Magwitch becomes the benefactor of Pip in—for 10 points—what novel by Charles Dickens?
Great Expectations &lt;MK&gt;
3

146514-)
One of this author’s characters becomes a born-again Christian after surviving an earthquake and finding a Bible where his tobacco was supposed to be. A 1719 book by this man is widely considered to be the first English novel. One of his protagonists escapes some pirates with the boy Xury and runs out of ink keeping a (*) daily journal. Another of his title characters moves to colonial Virginia and marries the criminal Jemmy, her half-brother, and three other men. Another of his characters teaches English to a man whose footprint he saw on the beach. For 10 points, name this author of Moll Flanders who wrote about the native Friday in Robinson Crusoe.
Daniel Defoe &lt;JR&gt;
3

146538-)
In the first stanza of “Ode on Indolence,” one of these objects being “shifted round” is compared to the three figures seen by the speaker. This object titles a poem describing a “heifer lowing at the skies,” led by a “mysterious priest” to a “green altar.” This object, which can “express a flowery tale more sweetly than our rhyme,” is described as a (*) “Sylvan historian,” and prompts the line “heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are sweeter.” This object is called “Thou still unravish’d bride of quietness” and seems to say “Beauty is truth, truth beauty.” For 10 points, John Keats wrote an “Ode on a Grecian” example of what ceramic receptacle?
urns [accept “Ode on a Grecian Urn”; do not accept or prompt on synonyms like “vases”] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146564-)
Near its beginning, this book describes “small fowls” that “make melody” and sleep with one eye open. This book’s characters “wend” to seek a person that helped them “when that they were sick.” In one part of this book, watching a woman pick flowers causes two men imprisoned in a tower to fall in love with her. This book includes the most famous version of the legend of the (*) fox and the rooster Chanticleer. This book begins when the “drought of March” has been “pierced to the root” by the “sweet showers” of April. A pilgrimage to the shrine of Thomas à Becket is made by the Nun’s Priest and the Knight in—for 10 points—what poetic collection of stories by Geoffrey Chaucer?
The Canterbury Tales &lt;JR&gt;
3

146590-)
This poem claims that there is “ample power / to chasten and subdue” in “the still, sad music of humanity.” This poem’s speaker claims “the sounding cataract / haunted me like a passion” as he tries to describe his younger days, with all their “aching joys” and “dizzy raptures.” The final section of this poem is addressed to “my dearest Friend, / my dear, dear Friend,” who is the poet’s (*) sister Dorothy. This poem calls a river “thou wanderer thro’ the woods,” and its speaker recounts “five summers, with the length of five long winters!” since seeing the “Sylvan Wye.” Lyrical Ballads ends with—for 10 points—what poem about a ruined monastery, by William Wordsworth?
“Tintern Abbey” [or “Lines Composed a Few Miles above Tintern Abbey, on Revisiting the Banks of the Wye During a Tour, July 13, 1798”] &lt;JW&gt;
3

146606-)
One of these characters declares, “Good God! We're out of our depth here” after unsuccessfully diagnosing another character’s ailment as “moroseness.” These characters parody the Lord’s Prayer in lines like “Give us this day our daily mask,” and they meet a Player who orders around the boy Alfred. One of these characters screams, “WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE?” during a game in which they are only allowed to (*) ask “Questions.” These characters investigate a title character’s apparent insanity at the behest of Claudius, but are killed upon arrival because of a forged letter. For 10 points, name these two estranged friends of Hamlet who are “dead” in a play by Tom Stoppard.
Rosencrantz AND Guildenstern [accept Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead] &lt;LL&gt;
3

146612-)
In one of these poems, the title object builds a little cupola after getting “dressed like a warrior,” but Maria sticks it in her basket, submerges it in a pot, and “undresses” it scale by scale. Another of these poems declares that “beauty is twice beautiful, and goodness twice good, when it concerns” the title objects, which make “two wool fish” of his feet. Poems of this kind about an artichoke, socks, and other (*) “Elemental” things were written by Pablo Neruda. The speaker of a poem of this kind has “been half in love with easeful Death,” declares “Thou wast not born for death!” and wonders “Do I wake or do I sleep?” For 10 points, Keats wrote what kind of poem “to a Nightingale?”
odes [or odas; accept more specific answers like Elemental Odes] &lt;JR&gt;
3

146620-)
At the end of a play by this author, a character advances to the front of the stage and asks the audience’s forgiveness by saying, “I put myself on you that are my country.” Several plays by this author start with an “Argument,” or an acrostic poem giving the play’s title. In a play by this author, the gullible gambler Dapper and tobacconist Drugger are conned. In another play by this man, an aging nobleman (*) fakes an illness in order to receive lavish gifts from characters like Corbaccio and Corvino; that play’s title character, a Venetian nobleman, attempts to rape Celia, and is assisted by the servant Mosca. For 10 points, name this 17th-century English author of The Alchemist and Volpone.
Ben Jonson [Benjamin Jonson] &lt;LL&gt;
3

146649-)
A character in this musical named Zoltan Karpathy concludes that another character is a Hungarian princess after dancing with her. In this musical, one character tells another that he can go to “Hertford, Hereford and Hampshire.” In this musical, the line “Tell me no dreams, filled with desire” is sung to Freddy in the song “Show Me.” Julie (*) Andrews created the protagonist of this musical, who sings “I Could Have Danced All Night” and repeats phrases like “The rain in Spain stays mainly on the plain” to suppress her Cockney accent. For 10 points, name this Lerner and Loewe musical about Henry Higgins and Eliza Doolittle, an adaptation of George Bernard Shaw’s Pygmalion.
My Fair Lady &lt;LL&gt;
3

146650-)
In a short story by this author, the missionary Davidson kills himself on Pago Pago after realizing that he hasn’t reformed the prostitute Sadie Thompson. One of this author’s characters moves to Heidelberg in Germany to follow the example of the liberal headmaster Mr. Perkins. This author of “Rain” also wrote an autobiographical novel in which the protagonist is raised by the stingy (*) vicar William, marries Sally Athelny, and has a catastrophic affair with the waitress Mildred Rogers. For 10 points, name this English novelist who wrote about the club-footed man Philip Carey in Of Human Bondage.
W. Somerset Maugham &lt;JR&gt;
3

146671-)
While staying in New Mexico, this author wrote a novel about the tourist Kate Leslie and the cult-leader Don Cipriano titledThe Plumed Serpent. One of this man's characters is torn between his love for Clara Dawes and Miriam Leivers. This creator of the Brangwen family in Women in Love wrote a novel about Paul (*) Morel, who struggles to break away from his mother in the novel Sons and Lovers. He wrote a frequently banned novel in which the title character experiences sensual love by cheating on her husband Clifford with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this British author of Lady Chatterley's Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence (or D. H. Lawrence)
3

146683-)
This author wrote of Fa and Lok, who are among the last of the Neanderthals, in his book The Inheritors. In another of his novels, Mr. Campbell and Mr. Davidson note that the title character failed to take off his seaboots, suggesting he hallucinated being stranded. In the most famous novel of this author of (*) Pincher Martin, a parachutist is mistaken for "the Beast" and a conch shell becomes a symbol of power. In that novel, Piggy's glasses are used to start fire and the title entity is a pig head impaled on a stick. For 10 points, what author wrote about some boys trapped on an island in Lord of the Flies?
William Golding
3

146718-)
This man wrote a story about Lord Arthur Saville, who attempts to fulfill a prophecy before a marriage by murdering someone, while the Dance of the Seven Veils leads to John the Baptist's beheading in a French play by this man. Along with Salome, he penned the line "each man kills the thing he loves" in his poem "The (*) Ballad of Reading Gaol" ["Redding Jail"]. Mrs Erlynne protects her daughter by lying about borrowing the title object in this man's play Lady Windermere's Fan and in his only novel, Basil Hallward paints the title object, which ages and grows more grotesque as its subject sins. For 10 points, name this author of The Picture of Dorian Gray.
Oscar Wilde
3

146739-)
This war is the subject of the poem "Dead Man's Dump," which was written by Isaac Rosenberg. A line beginning "My subject is War, and the pity of War" adorns a memorial to people who served in this war like Siegfried Sassoon. One patriotic poem about it exhorts people to remember "That there's some (*) corner of a field / That is for ever England." That poem, "The Soldier," is contrasted with a darker poem which asks "What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?"; that poem is "Anthem for Doomed Youth." "Dulce Et Decorum Est" is a poem by Wilfred Owen about, for 10 points, a poison gas attack in what war?
World War I or WWI (or the Great War)
3

146743-)
One character in this novel convinces Nightingale to marry his love Nancy while rooming with Mrs. Miller. The philosopher Square and the reverend Thwackum tutor this novel's protagonist along with his rival and unknown stepbrother Blifil. The protagonist first loves Black George's daughter Molly Seagrim and then has an affair with Mrs. Waters, who is revealed to be his supposed mother (*) Jenny Jones, but it is later revealed that Bridget is in fact his mother. Squire Allworthy raises the title character, who eventually marries Sophia Western. For 10 points, name this novel by Henry Fielding about a foundling.
The History of Tom Jones, A Foundling BONUSES
3

146762-)
One character in this work says "He prayeth best, who loveth best / All things both great and small" and ends this work noting he is "a sadder and a wiser man." The fate of the speaker is gambled over by Death and (*) Life-in-Death in this work. The speaker despairs that "a thousand thousand slimy things / Lived on; and so did I" while noting that there is "water, water, everywhere / nor any a drop to drink" after his ship strands in calm waters in this poem. The speaker of this poem interrupts a wedding guest to describe his story. A sailor shoots an albatross in, for 10 points, what long poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge?
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner
3

146786-)
In a work by this author, Jopp humiliates Lucetta by reading her love letters to a crowd. In that novel, after he sells his wife Susan to the sailor Newson in a fit of drunkenness, the protagonist swears off drinking. In another novel, a note reading "Done because we are too menny" is left behind after Little Father Time commits suicide. In addition to creating Michael Henchard and (*) Jude Fawley, this author created a character who murders Alec and is executed after being caught with Angel Claire. For 10 points, name this author of The Mayor Of Casterbridge, Jude the Obscure, and Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
3

146790-)
The protagonist of this work frequently uses the phrases "Oh my brothers" and "Your humble narrator." The title phrase of this book means an attempt to mechanically control something organic and appears in a manuscript written by F. Alexander. Music by "lovely Ludwig van" is played during the (*) Ludovico technique in this work, which puts the protagonist at the mercy of a writer who he had committed ultraviolence on. The protagonist of this work visits the Korova Milk Bar with his droogs and speaks nadsat. For 10 points, name this book with the violent teenage protagonist Alex written by Anthony Burgess.
A Clockwork Orange
3

146817-)
This work's protagonist imagines the story of Comrade Ogilvy, and he secretly buys a coral paperweight from an antique shop. The principles of Neo-Bolshevism and Death Worship are compared to Ingsoc in this book, which sees the Inner Party member O'Brien torture the protagonist. This book's protagonist works in the (*) Ministry of Truth and has an affair with a member of the Junior Anti-Sex League, Julia, whom he betrays under torture in Room 101. Eastasia and Eurasia both wage war with Oceania in this book and Winston Smith accepts that two plus two equals five. For 10 points, everyone loves Big Brother in what novel by George Orwell?
Nineteen Eighty-Four (or 1984, though this should never matter)
3

146844-)
This man opened one of his works with the line "And death shall have no dominion." This poet wrote a radio play set in Llareggub titled Under Milk Wood. Another of this man's poems ends "Though I sang in my chains like the sea" and opens "Now as I was young and easy under the apple boughs." This author of (*) "Fern Hill" wrote of "wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight" and tells "Old age should burn and rave at close of day" in a villanelle written for his dying father. For 10 points, name this poet who told his father to "rage, rage against the dying of the light" in "Do not go gentle into that good night."
Dylan Thomas
3

146872-)
One character in this book drives his accomplice Arthur into madness and convinces his fiancee to buy a brewery; that character is Compeyson. This novel sees one character write the letter T on a slate after she is attacked with a hammer by Orlick, who works under the blacksmith (*) Joe Gargery. This novel contains a woman who urges her adopted daughter to break the heart of the protagonist, as well as the lawyer Jaggers. This novel opens with the protagonist aiding an escaped convict, who turns out to be his benefactor Abel Magwitch. For 10 points, name this novel about Pip written by Charles Dickens.
Great Expectations
3

146881-)
An epilogue to this play discusses how Clara begins reading the novels of H.G. Wells. One character in this play angrily throws a pair of slippers at another, and that character's father is jokingly recommended as a moralist to a millionaire. This play begins with a man identifying people's origins in Covent Garden, where (*) Freddy Hill appears as well. Colonel Pickering makes a bet with a phonetics professor in this play that he can correct a flower girl's Cockney accent and pass her off as a duchess. For 10 points, name this play in which Professor Henry Higgins gives Eliza Doolittle elocution lessons, a work by George Bernard Shaw.
 Pygmalion (do not accept or prompt on "My Fair Lady")
3

146927-)
This man asked "Am not I / A fly like thee?" in the poem "The Fly." He described "dark Satanic mills" in a poem that begins "And did those feet in ancient time"; that poem prefaces this man's epic "Milton a Poem." This poet called the title orphan "a little black thing in the snow" in his poem "The (*) Chimney Sweeper" while in another poem he repeatedly asks the title animal "Dost thou know who made thee?" This poet matched his poem "The Lamb" with a poem in which the title animal is "burning bright / in the forests of the night." For 10 points, whose collection Songs of Innocence and Experience contains the poem "The Tyger?"
William Blake
3

146941-)
In one of this author's stories, a Hawaiian named Keawe purchases an object that must be sold for less than was paid for it. This author of "The Bottle Imp" wrote about the murder of Danvers Carew in a novel in which the lawyer Gabriel Utterson investigates the title characters. This man wrote a novel where (*) Ben Gunn has been abandoned on the title feature. That work begins with the lodger Billy Bones being given the "black spot," and sees Jim Hawkins set sail with Long John Silver to find Captain Flint's loot. For 10 points, name this author of The Curious Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and Treasure Island.
Robert Louis Stevenson
3

146958-)
George Chapman finished this writer's poem about a lover who nearly drowns swimming across the Hellespont titled "Hero and Leander." In a play by this man, the title character burns a copy of the Qu'ran after conquering Babylon and becoming emperor of Persia. The most famous play by this writer of (*) Tamburlaine sees one character poison his daughter Abigail and opens with a parody of Machiavelli. In that play, the title character alternately betrays the Christians and the Turks before falling in a boiling cauldron. The merchant Barrabas is the title character of, for 10 points, what playwright's The Jew of Malta?
Christopher Marlowe
3

146970-)
This man wrote a dramatic poem about a character tormented by the death of Astarte who summons seven spirits. This author of Manfred wrote that the "widows of Ashur are loud in their wail" as "the Assyrian came down like the wolf on the fold" in "The (*) Destruction of Sennacherib." This poet notes "every raven tress" of a woman in whom "all that's best of dark and bright / Meet in her aspect and eyes" and who is "like the night." He reverted a trope by writing about a Spaniard who is easily seduced by women. An archetypal jaded hero is named after, for 10 points, what English Romantic poet of "Don Juan" and "She Walks in Beauty?"
Lord George Gordon Byron, 6th Baron Byron (accept either or both underlined parts)
3

146982-)
This book includes the character Margaret Saville, who is addressed in letters throughout the book. One character in this book reads Plutarch's Lives while simultaneously observing the lives of the De Laceys, who live in a cottage. The protagonist's friend Henry Clerval and his wife Elizabeth are (*) murdered in this book by a character who flees to the North Pole. That character had earlier forced Victor to make him a companion after that character had been rejected by everyone it met due to its hideousness. For ten points, name this book by Mary Shelley where the title scientist creates a monster out of human body parts.
 Frankenstein; or, The Modern Prometheus
3

146995-)
A continuation of this character's story was written by Kingsley Amis in Colonel Sun. In one novel, this character has a Russian character forcibly marked on his body. One of his lovers commits suicide after seeing the SMERSH agent Gettler, and this character responds to her death by stating [ed. note: you can replace "bitch" with "she" if you want to] "the bitch is dead." Many of the novels this character appears in were written at the author's (*) Goldeneye Estate. This lover of Vesper Lynd and protagonist of the short stories "The Living Daylights" and "Octopussy" wins a high-stakes game of baccara against Le Chiffre in Casino Royale. For 10 points, name this M16 spy created by Ian Fleming, codenamed 007.
James Bond (accept Agent 007 until mentioned)
3

147070-)
This man noted that “we the great gazebo built” and asked the reader to “bid me strike a match and blow” in a poem about two sisters from his collection The Winding Stair. A poem about this man relates how “in the nightmare of the dark / All the dogs of Europe bark” and claims that “he disappeared in the dead of winter”, noting that “the day of his death was a dark cold day”. This poet described writing his play The (*) Countess Cathleen and expressed a need to lie down “in the foul rag and bone shop of the heart” in “The Circus Animals’ Desertion”. In another poem, he wrote of how “a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi troubles my heart” and asked “what rough beast...slouches toward Bethlehem to be born?” For 10 points, name this cofounder of the Abbey Theater, an Irish poet who wrote of a time when “things fall apart” in “The Second Coming”.
William Butler Yeats
6

147095-)
This author claimed not to write “for the towering dead with their nightingales and psalms”, but for “the lovers, their arms ‘round the grief of the ages” in his poem “In My Craft or Sullen Art”. He described how “faith in their hands shall snap in two, and the unicorn evils run them through” in a poem which notes “though lovers be lost love shall not”. Another of his poems says that “the sabbath rang slowly in the pebbles of the holy streams” while the speaker “was (*) young and easy under the apple boughs”; that poem ends with the lines “Time held me green and dying / though I sang in my chains like the sea.” This author of “And Death Shall Have No Dominion” and “Fern Hill” wrote a villanelle which urges “rage, rage against the dying of the light”. For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of “Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night”.
Dylan Marlais Thomas
6

147126-)
This character describes a Neapolitan as “a colt indeed, for he doth nothing but talk of his horse”. Later, she orders the playing of a song which opens by asking “Tell me, where is fancy bred?” First appearing in Belmont, this character later describes an entity which “is twice blest”, blessing “him that gives and him that takes”, and which “droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven” in her most famous speech, which begins “the (*) quality of mercy is not strained”. She spends much of the last two acts with her maid Nerissa, disguised as the lawyer Balthazar. Her portrait is hidden in a lead cask, which is correctly chosen by her suitor Bassanio. For 10 points, identify this heiress who finds a loophole in the contract between Antonio and Shylock, the heroine of The Merchant of Venice.
Portia
6

147131-)
At one point in this novel, a would-be highwayman with an unloaded pistol botches his first robbery, but the victim gives him two guineas anyway. Its protagonist beats up Ensign Northerton shortly after listening to the life story of the Man of the Hill. A character in this novel is interrupted while reading Thomas Southerne’s The Fatal Marriage by Lord Fellamar, who attempts to ravish her as part of a scheme arranged by Lady Bellaston. Its protagonist refuses to reveal that (*) Black George was with him when he shot a partridge, an offense that resulted in a beating from Mr. Thwackum, who like the tutor Square favors the protagonist’s rival Master Blifil. For 10 points, name this novel in which the title ward of Squire Allworthy eventually marries Sophia Western, a work of Henry Fielding.
Tom Jones [or The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling]
6

147136-)
In a Rudyard Kipling story, a hairdresser named Humberstall relates his membership in a secret society dedicated to this person. David Lassman wrote a 2007 article chronicling his anonymous submissions of this author’s work to publishers, who nearly universally rejected it. Prominent naval officers like Admiral Croft appear in a novel by this author in which Louisa Musgrove suffers a concussion on a seaside staircase at Lyme Regis and the protagonist reunites with Captain (*) Wentworth. This pioneer of free indirect discourse and creator of Anne Elliot wrote a novel which opens with the line “It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife,” and ends with the betrothal of Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy. For 10 points, name this author of Persuasion and Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen
6

147170-)
This author of the autobiography A Better Class of Person helped end the censorship of the theater in his country with the play A Patriot for Me, a goal also sought by his supporter Kenneth Tynan. Laurence Olivier commissioned a play from this man that features songs like “Why should I care” and “Thank God I’m normal”, which are performed at a music hall by Archie Rice. The protagonist reminisces about his old girlfriend Madeline and kisses (*) Helena Charles in his most famous play, which ends with a reconciliatory game of “bears and squirrels” involving Colonel Redfern’s daughter. Cliff Lewis attempts to mediate between Alison and Jimmy Porter in that play by this man. For 10 points, identify this author of The Entertainer who kicked off the “angry young men” movement with his play Look Back in Anger.
John James Osborne
6

147183-)
William Prynne’s Histriomastix claimed that a performance of this play literally drove some audience members insane. In one scene, its protagonist steals the Pope’s dishes and throws fireworks at some friars, while in another scene, the words “Homo, fuge!” appear on the protagonist’s arm. This play’s main character dismisses the doctrine of divinity as “que sera, sera”, before ordering his servant (*) Wagner to bring him the magicians Valdes and Cornelius, who encourage his study of necromancy. Its protagonist poses the request “Make me immortal with a kiss” to Helen of Troy, who is said to have “the face that launched a thousand ships”. For 10 points, name this Christopher Marlowe play whose protagonist gains Mephistophilis as a servant by making a deal with the Devil.
Doctor Faustus [or The Tragical History of Doctor Faustus]
6

147191-)
In the second novel about this character, his daughter Gurri is kidnapped by “the brown He”. Whittaker Chambers translated, and John Galsworthy wrote the foreword to, a novel about this character in which a halter fails to prevent the death of Gobo. He’s not Nemo, but he was voiced by Alexander Gould in a 2006 “midquel”. This character’s father teaches him to walk in circles in order to make a (*) blood trail useless. In his most famous appearance, this creation of Felix Salten defeats Ronno in a duel and is warned about becoming “twitterpated”. While fleeing a wildfire in that film, this character chases off the dogs that had cornered his love interest Fantine. The ominous “Man” is responsible for the offscreen death of the mother of, for 10 points, which friend of Flower and Thumper, a young deer?
Bambi
6

147194-)
. In one of this man’s poems, the speaker claims that “No nightingale did ever chant / more welcome notes to weary bands” and pleads “Will no one tell me what she sings?” while watching the distant title character cut and bind grain. He wrote that “We will grieve not, rather find / strength in what remains behind” in a poem which opens by describing a time when “earth, and every common sight / to me did seem / apparelled in celestial light” and is about some (*) “Recollections of Early Childhood”. This author of “The Solitary Reaper” wrote a poem about some items which “flash upon that inward eye / which is the bliss of solitude”, ten thousand of which he spied “dancing in the breeze” as he “wandered lonely as a cloud”. For 10 points, name this author of “Ode: Intimations of Immortality” and a poem sometimes called “Daffodils”.
William Wordsworth Minnesota Undergraduate Tournament 2014: We're Not Happy 'til You're Not Happy Questions by Billy Busse, Rob Carson, Mike Cheyne, Andrew Hart, Melanie Keating, and Bernadette Spencer Round 7: Bonuses
6

147229-)
During a church service in this novel, a mysterious voice from behind a pillar tells the protagonist to meet on the Brigg at midnight. Characters in this novel include the militia leader Garschattachin and the protagonist’s superstitious guide Andrew Fairservice. Another character in this novel, Morris, carries a portmanteau which he claims is filled with clothing, but which actually holds gold intended to pay English troops. Owen is jailed as a debtor at the behest of MacVitie in this novel, but is freed by (*) Bailie Nicol Jarvie. The title character appears as a deus ex machina at this novel’s end to drive off Jobson and kill the villainous Rashleigh. Diana Vernon and Frank Osbaldistone fall in love in, for 10 points, which Sir Walter Scott novel, set during the Fifteen and titled for a Scottish outlaw?
Rob Roy
6

147241-)
The protagonist of this author’s most recent novel has an affair with her professor Tony Canning, who helps her join an MI5 effort to recruit the author Thomas Haley. Another of this man’s characters mockingly accuses the critic Lanark of being part of a Welsh pedophile ring and avoids intervening in a rape in order to write down a melody for his latest symphony. This author of Sweet Tooth wrote about a euthanasia pact formed by two former lovers of Molly Lane, Vernon Halliday and Clive Linley, in a (*) Booker-winning novel. The section “London 1999” concludes another of his novels, in which Paul Marshall rapes Lola Quincey but Robbie Turner is sent to prison for the crime after being falsely identified by Cecilia’s sister Briony Tallis. For 10 points, name this British author of Amsterdam and Atonement.
Ian Russell McEwan
6

147272-)
One character in this poem describes a time “When the ivy-tod is heavy with snow, and the owlet whoops to the wolf below, that eats the she-wolf's young.” Its sixth section opens with a dialogue between two voices, one of which describes a man who “penance more will do”. This poem’s speaker regains the ability to pray after learning to appreciate the beauty and life of a “thousand thousand slimy things”. Earlier, its speaker observes a (*) dice game between Death and Life-in-Death, who wins the speaker’s soul. At its end, its title character relates the lesson “He prayeth best, who loveth best all things both great and small” to the Wedding-Guest. For 10 points, name this poem whose title character shoots of an albatross, leading to a situation involving “water, water everywhere, nor any drop to drink”, a work of Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
“The Rime of the Ancient Mariner”
6

147286-)
In one of this author’s novels, the disembodied head of François Alcasan leads the National Institute of Coordinated Experiments, which attempts to ensnare Mark Studdock. Another of his protagonists receives a permanent wound on his heel while fighting with the “un-man”, the former Professor Weston. This author created the Greek ex-slave Lysias, or “the Fox”, who serves in the kingdom of Glome as a tutor to Orual, the protagonist of a retelling of the Cupid and Psyche myth entitled (*) Till We Have Faces. In another of his novels, a war between Archenland and Calormen is prevented by the efforts of Shasta and Bree, a talking horse. The philologist Elwin Ransom is the main character of his Space Trilogy. For 10 points, name this author of Out of the Silent Planet, an Inkling who created the leonine Christ figure Aslan in his Chronicles of Narnia.
Clive Staples Lewis
6

147316-)
The letters that open this book are parallelled by the emails sent by Jerome that open Zadie Smith’s On Beauty, which is essentially a retelling of this novel. The dual origins of one family in this novel are represented by the squabbling between Frieda Mosebach and Aunt Juley. Other characters in this novel include the creepy caretaker Miss Avery and a woman who adopts the motto “only connect”. Another character in this novel marries (*) Jacky, who had earlier been seduced and abandoned on Cyprus by Henry, and dies when he is struck with the flat of a saber by Charles. At its end, Helen and Margaret both settle at the title location, which was formerly the property of the Wilcoxes. Leonard Bast and the Schlegel sisters appear in, for 10 points, which E.M. Forster novel, titled for an estate?
Howards End
6

147327-)
In one of these poems by this author, the speaker asks “How came ye muffled in so hush a mask?” and describes a visit from the figures of Love, Ambition, and Poesy. In another of them, the speaker promises to “build a fane in some untrodden region of my mind” and asks the title character to “hear these tuneless numbers”. In another of them, the speaker seeks to “drink, and leave the world unseen”, muses“fled is that music--did I wake or sleep?”, and tells the title (*) creature “thou wast not born for death”. The most famous of these poems asks “who are these coming to the sacrifice?” while contemplating a “still unravish’d bride of quietness”, and claims that “all ye need to know” is that “beauty is truth, truth beauty”. For 10 points, identify these poems by an English Romantic, including ones “on Indolence”, “to Psyche”, “to a Nightingale” and “on a Grecian Urn”.
John Keats’s 1819 odes [or just “odes by John Keats” or any similar answer that specifies odes and Keats]
6

147350-)
This character encountered Prol Gosgotha while studying ancient ruins, and he was replaced by Katma Tui. This character was crucified on Ysmault by Atrocitus, who discovered the identity of his daughter Soranik Natu. This character was initially aided by the Weaponers from the antimatter dimension Qward, and after one defeat he was imprisoned in an (*) Oan sciencell. To defeat Parallax, this character was freed from the Central Power Battery. This villain originally trained Hal Jordan before being revealed to have brutally subjugated his homeworld Korugar. For 10 points, name this supervillain that wields yellow, fear-based, rings that are impervious to the powers of the Green Lantern Corps.
Thaal Sinestro (accept either or both underlined parts)
9

147366-)
In House of Mystery #306 this figure battles Andrew Bennett and is revealed to be the doctor Jonathan Kelsey, while in another version this figure is created when Dormammu sends a creature to possess Tom Malverne. This figure is hunted by Batman in the first Elseworlds story, (*) Gotham by Gaslight, and he is often associated with the cartoon “The Nemesis of Neglect.” One version of this figure covers up an affair involving Prince Albert partially caused by the painter Walter Sickert; that depiction of this figure takes its two-word title from a letter this figure allegedly sent and identifies this figure as the insane Dr. William Gull. For 10 points, name this figure, the central subject of Alan Moore’s From Hell, which depicts this figure murdering several women in Whitechapel in 1888 London.
Jack the Ripper (prompt on the Whitechapel Murderer or Saucy Jack; prompt on just Jack; prompt on Dr. William Gull after “covers up” is read)
9

147377-)
As a child, this character has a dream of his mother conjoined to a man while dancing like Siamese twins. Much of this character’s history is exposed in the chapter “The Abyss Gazes Also,” and near the end of “A Stronger Loving World,” this character states (*) “No compromises” before yelling “Do it!” This character is “born” after investigating the kidnapping of Blair Roche. After throwing a vat of fryer oil on a man, this character menacingly threatens “You’re locked in here with me.” This character is revealed to be a red-haired man holding a sign saying “THE END IS NIGH,” and he wears a piece of clothing designed for Kitty Genovese. This character’s journal is eventually sent to the newspaper the New Frontiersman after he is vaporized by Dr. Manhattan. For 10 points, name this vigilante who wears a mask with an inkblot-inspired design.
Rorschach (or Walter Kovacs: accept either or both names)
9

147380-)
After two characters with this surname are briefly reunited, one says “You always arrange miracles”; another reunion of those characters is later predicted by a gypsy. Richieu has this surname, as well as Mala, who obtains it after one character (*) remarries. After one character says “I’m tired from talking,” a tombstone with this surname on it is depicted. A character with this surname says “And here my troubles began,” after earlier having “bled history,” and a woman with this surname commits suicide in the comic Prisoner on the Hell Planet. Anja takes on this surname after marrying Vladek. For 10 points, give this surname of Art, who depicted his father’s Holocaust struggle in Maus.
Spiegelmann
9

147382-)
In the fourth volume of this work, the protagonist defeats Gorgo the Foul in the Five Thousand Year Nuptuial Games. This work’s protagonist eventually allies with Kill Wolfhead and the head of a terrorist group known as AMOK. Tanatah and her sister Animah are responsible for guarding the “Light” and “Dark” versions of this comic’s title object. Before he can spread darkness across the universe via the Shadow Egg, the (*) Technopope’s crown is shattered by the protagonist’s talking seagull Deepo. The protagonist of this comic is hunted by the bounty hunter the Metabaron after he receives the title object from a dying Berg. The protagonist of this series is the detective John DiFool, who receives the title all-powerful crystal. For 10 points, name this French science-fiction comic written by Alejandro Jodorowsky and illustrated by Moebius.
The Incal (or L’Incal)
9

147384-)
In the issue “My Blue Heaven,” this character finds a planet colored only in blue. In one of the Annuals for this character, it ventures into Hell to rescue Matthew Cable’s former wife. In “Rites of Spring,” this character “makes love” with Abby Arcane by producing hallucinogenic tubers. In the issue “The Anatomy Lesson,” the (*) Floronic Man dissects this creature for the Sunderland Corporation, and it is usually shown as connected to the Parliament of Trees and the Green. This creature’s origins were rewritten as having only taken on the consciousness of Alec Holland after his death in a Louisiana marsh fire in Alan Moore’s seminal run on this creature. For 10 points, name this vaguely vegetative monster.
the Swamp Thing
9

147409-)
During a stint in the French court, this character used the royal family for syphilis experiments. This character betrayed Mordu the Merciless while a member of the Demon Knights, and his archenemy was replaced by the Resurrection Man. This character founded the (*) Injustice Society, in addition to being part of various other evil organizations like Taratus and the Secret Society of Super Villains. This character bathed in the radiation of a meteorite while still a Cro-Magnon of the Blood Tribe. This villain has appeared throughout history under names like Alexander the Great and Genghis Khan as a master tactician hellbent on world domination. For 10 points, name this frequent enemy of various DC superheroes, an immortal villain.
Vandal Savage (prompt on partial; accept Vandar Adg; Writer’s note: also prompt on *deep breath* Khafre, Alexander the Great, Julius Caesar, Genghis Khan, Vlad the Impaler, Jack the Ripper, Burt Villers, Cain, Licinius, Blackbeard, Adolf Hitler)
9

147414-)
In Squee! and Johnny the Homocidal Maniac, this figure takes the name Juan and is known as “Señor.” A “Son of” this figure was later retconned to being the child of Marduk Kurios and Victoria Wingate who later joined the Defenders and married Patsy Walker. After he becomes the (*) Angel of Death, this is the first person the Saint of Killers kills in Preacher. With his consort Mazikeen, this character starts running a piano bar named Lux after abandoning his position in The Sandman. This figure personally comes to Constantine’s death in the film version, and he’s often substituted in comics by similar characters like Neron and Mephisto. For 10 points, name this figure forced to rule the city of Pandemonium after challenging God and being made ruler of Hell.
Satan (or the Devil; or Lucifer)
9

147433-)
One character comments that this character had “limits, to how much he could let himself change,” resulting in an event in which this character holds hands with another on top of a spire. This character grants a boon to the elf Nuala, and he sends the Corinthian and Matthew the raven to rescue a kidnapped infant from Loki and Puck. This character’s (*) funeral is described in The Wake, an event attended by characters like Rose Walker and an immortal man this character met once every 100 years. At the instigation of Lyta Hall, this character is killed by the Kindly Ones for killing his son Orpheus. This figure is good friends with another member of the Endless, his sister Death. For 10 points, name this character, the protagonist of Neil Gaiman’s The Sandman.
Dream (accept Lord of the Dreaming or any other titles that mention dreams; prompt on any of Morpheus, Oneiros, L’Zoril, the Shaper of forms, Murphy, Kai’ckul, or the Sandman before they’re read)
9

147481-)
A twelve-volume verse novel by this author relates the murder trial and execution of Count Guido Franceschini (FRAN-ches-KEY-knee). A poem by this author declares “O to be in England / Now that April’s here!” Another poem by this author begins “The rain set in early tonight” before the speaker describes strangling a woman with her own hair. A poem by this author of The Ring and the Book references “the gift of a nine-hundred years-old name” and describes a character painted by Fra Pandolf as having a heart “too soon made glad.” For 10 points, name this English poet of dramatic monologues such as “Porphyria’s Lover” and “My Last Duchess,” who married fellow poet Elizabeth Barrett.
Robert Browning
6

147483-)
This story’s protagonist pictures “a young man under a dripping tree” and realizes he is imagining shades of the afterlife. Its protagonist admits he is “sick of his own country” after Molly Ivors invites him to go to the Aran Islands. In this story, Mr. Browne attempts to calm a drunk Freddy Mallins at a dinner party hosted by the elderly sisters Julia and Kate Morkan. In this story, the tenor Bartell D’Arcy sings “The Lass of Aughrim,” which reminds Gretta of her childhood love Michael Furey. At the end of this story, snow falls softly “all over Ireland” as Gabriel Conroy stares out the window. For 10 points, name this last story of James Joyce’s collection Dubliners.
“The Dead”
6

147502-)
One character in this play recounts being told that “Small herbs have grace, great weeds do grow apace.” The title character of this play is visited by the ghosts of his victims, who tell him to “Despair and die!” At a battle in this play, threats against Stanley’s son prevent him from sending reinforcements. After the title character admits he is “determined to prove a villain,” he hires Sir James Tyrrell to murder two rivals after having his brother drowned in Malmsey wine. This play opens with Gloucester’s [“gloss-turrs”] declaration “now is the winter of our discontent.” For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play whose title hunchbacked king asks to trade his kingdom for a horse.
Richard III
6

147515-)
An essay by Edmund Wilson asks why people read stories that focus on these kinds of people. A so-called “plum pudding method” was used to write novels about a member of this profession called Albert Campion. In a series of novels, a member of this profession marries Harriet Vane and is assisted by his valet Mervyn Bunter. Margery Allingham and Dorothy Sayers both wrote novels about people with this profession, such as Lord Peter Wimsey. A character with this job dies in the story “The Final Problem” by falling down the Reichenbach Falls with his nemesis Professor Moriarty. For 10 points, name this profession of Arthur Conan Doyle’s character Sherlock Holmes.
detectives [or inspectors; or investigators]
6

147524-)
. The narrator of a poem by this author calls himself a “gray spirit yearning” to follow knowledge “like a sinking star / Beyond the utmost bound of human thought.” In that poem by this author, the title character resolves to go on a journey, observing “‘Tis not too late to seek a newer world.” In a poem about death, this author wrote “I hope to see my Pilot face to face” when he crosses the Bar. The title king of a poem by this author resolves “to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield.” Another poem by this author memorializes the “six hundred” who rode into the “Valley of Death.” For 10 points, name this British poet of “Ulysses” and “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
Alfred, Lord Tennyson Bonuses
6

147526-)
The protagonist of a novel by this author gets into a disagreement with one of his co-workers regarding the firing of two Jews at the insistence of Carolyn Barnet. That protagonist created by this author discovers that his father has died during a conference of Nazi sympathizers hosted by his employer, and insists that “dignity” sets him apart from lesser members of his profession. He wrote a novel whose protagonist takes a road trip to visit Miss Kenton, the first time in years that he has left Darlington Hall. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about the butler Stevens in The Remains of the Day, the winner of the 2017 Nobel Prize in Literature.
Kazuo Ishiguro
6

147532-)
In this novel, a man defends a portrait by the protagonist, assuring her its subject is “not in the least too tall” and offering to take it to be framed in London. That character later travels to Bath and marries Augusta. This novel’s protagonist accidentally insults Mrs. Bates during an awkward group outing to Box Hill. In this novel, a piano is gifted anonymously to a woman who ends up married to Frank Churchill, Jane Fairfax. After facilitating the marriage of Robert Martin and Harriet Smith, this novel’s title heroine finally admits her own feelings and marries George Knightley. For 10 points, name this novel by Jane Austen about Miss Woodhouse, the title matchmaker.
Emma
6

147552-)
In a poem by this author, Files-on-Parade asks “What are the bugles blowing for” and “What makes you so white, so white?” before the Colour-Sargeant replies “They’re hanging Danny Deever in the mornin.’” This poet romanticized a place “By the old Moulmein pagoda” in a poem whose speaker wishes “Ship me somewheres east of Suez” so he can travel the road to the title location. Another poem by this author advises “If you can keep your head when all about you / are losing theirs …. You’ll be a Man, my son!” This author of “Mandalay” and “If” wrote a collection about a boy raised by Indian wolves named Mowgli. For 10 points, name this British author of The Jungle Book.
Rudyard Kipling
6

147559-)
In one part of this poem, the protagonist has to climb aboard a creature with the wings of a dragon, the tail of a scorpion, and a face of an honest man in order to scale a cliff. In the first section of this poem, which is set on the night of Maundy Thursday, a panther, a she-wolf, and a lion appear to frighten a character who is “midway upon the journey of” his life. The protagonist of this poem encounters people tossed about by strong winds, including the murdered lovers Paolo and Francesca. Its protagonist is guided through nine circles by Virgil. For 10 points, name this poem which is succeeded by the Purgatorio and Paradiso, the first part of Dante’s Divine Comedy.
Dante’s Inferno [prompt on The Divine Comedy until mentioned]
6

147564-)
A character in this novel physically skips from side to side whilst delivering convoluted explanations, and is said to be able to turn black into white. A song in this novel sounds like a combination of “La Cucaracha” and “Oh My Darling, Clementine,” and is introduced by a character who dies three days after outlining the Seven Commandments. A character in this novel constantly answers problems by replying “I will work harder,” before he injures his leg and is sold off to a glue factory. After this novel’s Battle of the Cowshed, Snowball is driven out on the orders of his fellow pig Napoleon. For 10 points, name this allegorical novella about the Russian Revolution written by George Orwell.
Animal Farm, A Fairy Story
6

147570-)
A main character of a play named for one of these events takes a garland of orange blossoms from her maid and throws them on the floor. In that play, Leonardo runs off at the end of Act Two after one of these events, after which a woodcutter representing the Moon remarks that blood will soon be spilled. Edmund Spenser commemorated one of these events by writing “Epithalamion” for Elizabeth Boyle. In Great Expectations, Miss Havisham never removes the clothing she put on for one of these events, which traditionally occur at the end of comedies. For 10 points, name these ceremonies, one of which Rupa Mehra tries to arrange for her daughter Lata in A Suitable Boy.
a wedding [or a marriage; or obvious equivalents]
6

147579-)
A poem by this author ends “shake your chains to earth like dew…ye are many – they are few.” That poem by this author declares “I met Murder on the way / He had a mask like Castlereagh” and was written in response to the Peterloo Massacre. This author wrote of a “destroyer and preserver” from whose presence “leaves dead are driven” in an ode which asks “If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?” In a sonnet by this poet, “a traveller from an antique land,” describes the ironic inscription “look upon my works, ye mighty, and despair!” For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of “The Masque of Anarchy,” “Ode to the West Wind” and “Ozymandias.”
Percy Bysshe Shelley
6

147598-)
A poem by this author observes that the same gale blew through a forest in Roman Britain and the present, and ends “To-day the Roman and his trouble / are ashes under Uricon.” This author observed “since to look at things in bloom / fifty springs are little room” in a poem about the “Loveliest of Trees, the Cherry Now.” This author of “On Wenlock Edge” wrote a poem about a wise man who says “give crowns and pounds and guineas / but not your heart away,” as well a poem beginning “The time you won your town the race / We chaired you through the marketplace.” For 10 points, name this author who included “When I was one-and-twenty” and “To an Athlete Dying Young” in his collection A Shropshire Lad.
Alfred Edward Housman [or A. E. Housman]
6

147614-)
A character in this novel gives a biscuit to a dying man who has a bit of white worsted tied around his neck. The true narrator of this novel sees a “brooding gloom” over “the greatest town on Earth.” The protagonist of this novel discovers a painting of a blindfolded woman holding a torch against a dark background. That same character later throws his shoes overboard along with his dead helmsman, upsetting the starving cannibals he had hired to help transport the Manager upriver. A mission in this novel seeks to find a man whose last words are “the horror, the horror.” For 10 points, name this novel in which Marlow travels up the Congo to meet Kurtz, by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness
6

147624-)
The first and last stanzas of Philip Larkin’s poem “Annus Mirabilis” mention this novel before “The Beatles’ first LP.” This novel’s main character is incensed after the failure of a motorised wheelchair forces its occupant to be pushed up a hill. Its protagonist rejects a proposal from the Irish playwright Michaelis and embarks on a passionate affair with the husband of Bertha Coutts. The explicit descriptions of that affair caused this novel’s publisher, Penguin, to be sued in a landmark 1960 obscenity trial. For 10 points, name this novel whose title character, Constance, has an affair with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors, written by D.H. Lawrence.
Lady Chatterley’s Lover
6

147656-)
During a carriage ride, a character in this novel remarks “revenge may be wicked, but it’s natural.” Another of this novel’s characters is punished by being made Governor of Coventry Island by a man who has just been cheated out of a thousand pounds. A prelude titled “Before the Curtain” frames this novel as a puppet show. One character in this novel has an affair with the Marquis of Steyne. William Dobbin expresses unrequited love for a woman in this novel whose husband George Osborne is killed at the Battle of Waterloo. In this novel, Rawdon Crawley marries the manipulative Becky Sharp. For 10 points, name this “novel without a hero” by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair
6

147685-)
The speaker of a poem by this author wishes to join a “glimmering girl” in picking “the silver apples of the moon / the golden apples of the sun.” This author described a woman with “beauty like a tightened bow” in a poem which wonders, “Why should I blame her that she filled my days / With misery.” A third poem by this author describes how “A shudder in the loins engenders there / The broken wall, the burning roof and tower / And Agamemnon dead.” This author’s love for Maud Gonne inspired his poems “No Second Troy” and “Leda and the Swan.” For 10 points, name this poet who asked, “What rough beast, its hour come round at last, slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?” in “The Second Coming.”
William Butler Yeats [or W. B. Yeats]
6

147698-)
Thomas Dekker based his play Satiromastix on the feud between John Marston and this author, which was dubbed “The War of the Theatres.” In a play by this author, a puppet show is accused of promoting cross-dressing by the Puritan Zeal-of-the-Land Busy. A poem by this author begins “Drink to me only with thine eyes” and is titled “To Celia.” This author created a character who disguises himself as Scoto the Mountebank to dupe three men who wish to inherit his fortune. In another play by this author of Bartholomew Fair, Sir Epicure Mammon is fooled by Dol Common, Subtle, and Face into thinking that they possess the philosopher’s stone. For 10 points, name this English Jacobean playwright of Volpone and The Alchemist.
Ben Jonson
6

147716-)
Acts 1 and 2 of an early version of this play include a non-speaking ghost character named Innogen. A song in this play tells ladies to “sigh no more / Men were deceivers ever” and asks them to be “blithe and bonny” and sing “Hey, nonny nonny.” A constable in this play demands that everyone remember “I am an ass.” In this comedy, Borachio and the maid Margaret are seen having sex in a window as part of a scheme to accuse another character of infidelity. That scheme is inadvertently foiled by Dogberry after being concocted by Don John. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy in which Claudio is tricked into rejecting Hero amidst the “merry war” of Beatrice and Benedick.
Much Ado About Nothing
6

147735-)
One poem by this author opens by describing three figures “in placid sandals, and in white robes graced,” which represent Ambition, Love and Poetry. This author declared “Yes, I will be thy priest” in a poem which asks the title goddess to hear the speaker’s “tuneless numbers.” This author wondered “Do I wake or sleep?” in a poem which opens “My heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains.” That poem declares “Thou wast not born for death, immortal Bird!” This poet wrote “Beauty is truth, truth beauty” in a poem written about a classical vase. For 10 points, name this English poet who wrote odes “to Indolence,” “to a Nightingale,” and “on a Grecian Urn.”
John Keats
6

147769-)
One of this author’s poems describes an entity that fills the plain and hill “With living hues odours” and blows “Her clarion o’er the dreaming earth”. That poem by him declares “I fall upon the thorns of life! I bleed” before asking the title entity to “Make me thy lyre, even as the forest is” and ends with the line “If Winter comes, can spring be far behind?” Another of his poems imagines “two vast and trunkless legs of stone” whose pedestal reads “Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!”. For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of “Ode to the West Wind” and “Ozymandias”.
Percy Bysshe Shelley &lt;JL&gt;
4

147795-)
This work ends with the goddess Hymen presiding over four marriages. Several characters in this play are sons of Sir Rowland de Boys, including the villainous Oliver, who tries to kill his brother through a fixed wrestling match. Speeches in this play, which features the characters Phebe and the shepherd Silvius, include Duke Senior’s reflections on the advantages of the forest, and Jaques declaring, “All the world’s a stage.” For 10 points, name this play, set in the Forest of Arden, where Orlando is instructed in romance by the disguised Rosalind, written by William Shakespeare.
As You Like It &lt;SJW&gt;
4

147816-)
This poem compares a vanity table to an altar, and ends with Clarissa advising valuing good humor rather than looks. A Gnome empties a bag of spleen over the head of the heroine of this work, whose lapdog, Shock, and other possessions are usually protected by a troop of Sylphs. This poem begins “What dire offence from amorous causes springs.” During a round of the card-game ombre, the Baron carries out this poem’s title action on Belinda, who is surrounded by spirits like Ariel and Umbriel. For 10 points, this is what mock-epic poem about a stolen strand of hair by Alexander Pope?
The Rape of the Lock &lt;SJW&gt;
4

147821-)
In one work, this man wrote, “The pallor of girls' brows shall be their pall; / Their flowers the tenderness of patient minds” of the title figures. In that poem, this man asks “What passing-bells for these who die as cattle?” The speaker of another of this man’s poems sees, “Dim, through the misty panes and thick green light, / As under a green sea,” a man dying in a gas attack. This poet described soldiers, “Bent double, like old beggars under sacks,” as victims of “the old Lie”. Name, for 10 points, this English First World War poet of “Anthem for Doomed Youth” and “Dulce et Decorum est.”
Wilfred Edward Salter Owen &lt;SJW&gt;
4

147841-)
In one scene in this novel, Mr. Giles and Mr. Brittles narrate how one of them shot the protagonist. The protagonist of this novel loses his place with the undertaker Mr. Sowerberry after beating Noah Claypole for insulting the memory of his dead mother. The protagonist is later cared for by Rose Maylie and Mr. Brownlow, before being kidnapped by Bill Sikes. The Artful Dodger leads the title character of this novel to join a gang of child pickpockets working for Fagin. For 10 points, name this novel by Charles Dickens about an orphan who is famously punished for asking for more gruel.
Oliver Twist, or The Parish Boy’s Progress &lt;JL&gt;
4

147864-)
In one of this author’s sonnets, he bemoans his lack of achievement upon arriving at the age of twenty-three. In his Sonnet 19, he concludes that “they also serve who only stand and wait”, after considering how his “light is spent”. In addition to “On the Morning of Christ’s Nativity” and “On His Blindness”, this author also wrote a pastoral elegy for the drowning of Edward King in “Lycidas”. This poet’s most famous work attempts to “justify the ways of God to men,” and one character in that work by him declares that it is “Better to reign in Hell, than serve in Heaven”. For 10 points, name this poet of Paradise Lost.
John Milton &lt;CSM&gt;
4

147893-)
One character in this novel is repeatedly mocked for describing another as having “fine eyes”. The plot of this novel is set into motion by a new tenant moving into Netherfield Park, which leads to the assertion that “It is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune, must be in want of a wife”. In this novel, Charlotte Lucas marries Mr. Collins, who had been earlier rejected by the protagonist, whose sister Lydia elopes with the rakish Wickham, and whose other sister, Jane, married Bingley. For 10 points, name this novel in which Elizabeth Bennett and Fitzwilliam Darcy need to overcome their ego and distrust by Jane Austen.
Pride and Prejudice &lt;JL&gt;
4

147904-)
In one work by this man, Anna tells Deeley, “You have a wonderful casserole… I mean wife,” while that wife, Kate, later says to Anna, “I remember you dead.” In another play by this playwright of Old Times, Davies hopes to retrieve his identity papers in Sidcup and take the title job. One play by this man depicts the affair between Jerry and Emma told in nine scenes that go backwards in time. Another play by this author of Betrayal features the hitmen Gus and Ben, who are distracted by food orders carried in the title object. For 10 points, name this British playwright, of works like The Caretaker and The Dumb Waiter.
Harold Pinter [accept David Baron] &lt;SJW&gt;
4

147924-)
This character spots a cloud that looks first like a camel, then “more like a weasel,” and then “more like a whale.” He later claims “there is a special providence in the fall of a sparrow” before meeting Osric, and rewrites a letter to ensure that two of his childhood friends get executed in England. J. Alfred Prufrock claims he is “not…nor was meant to be” this man, a student at Wittenberg. Before a duel with poison-tipped swords, he leaps on the grave of a woman whom he told “get thee to a nunnery,” Ophelia, and tries to kill Claudius while feigning madness. For 10 points, name this Prince of Denmark who sees his father’s ghost and asks “To be or not to be”.
Prince Hamlet &lt;MJ&gt; Round 8 Bonuses
4

147928-)
This author wrote about the sexual awakening of the vicar’s daughter Yvette in The Virgin and the Gypsy. Gerald Crich and Rupert Birkin become romantically involved with the Brangwen sisters in this author’s sequel to his The Rainbow. This author of Women in Love wrote about an aspiring artist who is beloved of Clara Dawes and Miriam Leivers, Paul Morel. His most famous protagonist has an adulterous affair with her groundskeeper, Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this English author of Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
D[avid] H[erbert] Lawrence &lt;JL&gt;
4

147931-)
This man penned the line “the world’s more full of weeping than you can understand” in “The Stolen Child”. In another poem, he asks sages to become the singing-masters of his soul, and declares that unless “the Soul claps his hand sing”, “an aged man is but a paltry thing”. In one poem by this man, the speaker says “a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi / Troubles my sight.” This poet wrote an introduction to Tagore’s Gitanjali and wrote the line “That is no country for old men.” In another poem, the title event means that “The falcon cannot hear the falconer; / Things fall apart, the center cannot hold.” For 10 points, name this Irish poet of “Sailing to Byzantium” and “The Second Coming.”
William Butler Yeats [pronounced “Yates”] &lt;SJW&gt;
4

147986-)
One character in this play describes another as the “most original moralist in England” leading to him inheriting a fortune from a wealthy American. At the beginning of the final act of this play, one character bemoans “What have you left me fit for” while throwing slippers at a character based on the playwright’s friend, Henry Sweet. In this play, the housekeeper Mrs. Pearce looks after a character who later leaves the protagonist to marry Freddy Eynsford-Hill after abandoning her career selling flowers. For 10 points, Eliza Doolittle is taught to speak like a lady by phonetics professor Henry Higgins in what Shaw play that was the basis for the musical My Fair Lady?
Pygmalion &lt;JL&gt;
4

147988-)
One character in this work has a letter examined by the handwriting expert Mr. Guest. This work opens with an incident in which a little girl was trampled by a character who later produced a check for one hundred pounds. After the murder of Sir Danvers Carew, the secrets of the employer of Poole are discovered by the lawyer Gabriel Utterson, who uncovers the title character’s experiments. For 10 points, name this work about a scientist who takes a potion, which unleashes the evil side of his personality, by Robert Louis Stevenson.
The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde &lt;JL&gt;
4

147994-)
One of this author’s protagonists splits a sixpence in half with his best friend, Ann Pornick, who eventually becomes his wife; that protagonist is Arthur Kipps. This author predicted a “Dictatorship of the Air” to be established after World War II in The Shape of Things to Come. “Tripods” spread a toxic gas called “black smoke” in one of his works. One of this author’s protagonists battles Morlocks and rescues Weena. Those novels are about a Martian invasion and a professor who meets the Eloi in the year 802,701 A.D. For 10 points, name this British science fiction writer of The War of the Worlds and The Time Machine.
H[erbert] G[eorge] Wells &lt;JL&gt;
4

148018-)
In this novel, a gypsy fortune teller at a party is revealed to be the male protagonist in disguise; that character does not end up marrying Blanche Ingram, as is expected. While living at Marsh End, the protagonist is cared for by St. John (sin jin) Rivers and his sisters. The title character suspects Grace Poole is responsible for the strange happenings at Thornfield, which are actually the work of the male protagonist’s mad ex-wife who is locked in the house, Bertha Mason. For 10 points, the title character marries Edward Rochester at the end of what novel by Charlotte Bronte?
Jane Eyre &lt;JL&gt;
4

148050-)
One of this author’s characters has a head so “polished” that “on a sunshiny day, he could heliograph his orders to distant camps just by nodding”; that man is co-responsible for a girl who would “commit every crime a respectable woman can” and “justify every one of them by saying that it was the wish of her guardians.” One of this author’s protagonists asks, “You think that life is nothing but not being dead?” and later asks, “How long, (*) O Lord, how long?” until the world is ready to accept its saints. This author of a “tragedy without villains” about the posthumous canonization of a Frenchwoman also wrote a play where Ann Whitefield manages to win over Jack Tanner, a modern adaptation of Don Juan also meant to invoke Nietzsche’s ubermensch. For 10 points, name this Irish author of Saint Joan and Man and Superman.
George Bernard Shaw
7

148070-)
Description Acceptable. In one film that employs this narrative technique, a group of people miscount the bullets left in a gun and shoot down a crystal chandelier. In that movie, a butler who says “Communism was just a red herring” is killed by an FBI agent. Another film with this property shows the title character winning at roulette to get 100,000 marks so that Ronnie will spare her boyfriend Manni. In a novel that uses this narrative device, the narrator turns back his watch 15 minutes and (*) tosses a coin before relating how Charles Smithson realizes the disgraced Sarah Woodruff was a virgin and finds her living with Dante Gabriel Rossetti. Cue cards saying “That’s what could have happened, but how about this?” end Clue: The Movie, which has this feature. For 10 points, name this defining characteristic of the conclusions of Run, Lola, Run and The French Lieutenant’s Woman.
having multiple endings [accept alternate endings, different endings, etc.]
7

148087-)
This author created the University College of Abertawe professor Athro Haines, who wrote a book on “medieval Cwmrhydyceirw” that the protagonist pretends to have heard of to impress his boss. Philip Larkin and this author created a game where they would replace words in literary quotes with obscenities, like “I have gathered up six slender basketfuls OF HORSEPISS.” The “shadowy Argentinian outfit” for which this author wrote a Graham Greene monograph inspired his character of Dr. L. S. Caton, who plagiarizes an article on (*) medieval shipbuilding. The ghost of Dr. Underhill conjures a being made of twigs to haunt the title inn of a novel by this author. This author of The Green Man wrote a novel in which a lecture on “Merrie England’ is drunkenly delivered by Professor Dixon. For 10 points, name this author of Lucky Jim.
Kingsley Amis [prompt on “Amis”]
7

148099-)
One man in this novel used to impersonate the wife of the Duke of Vincennes over the phone. A child in this novel tricks a man into thinking that people can pay churches to get specific people sent to hell. That girl, Cordelia, quotes Chesterton about an “unseen hook and an invisible line” holding her brother, who cares for the German soldier Kurt. This novel’s protagonist does architectural sketches of Latin America and has an affair on a cruise ship with the wife of (*) Rex Mottram, Julia. He often visits her alcoholic brother, who in college had thrown up in his window and carried around the teddy bear Aloysius. During WWII, this book’s protagonist is stationed at the estate of the Marchmain family and remembers his friendship with their son Sebastian Flyte. For 10 points, name this novel about Charles Ryder, by Evelyn Waugh.
Brideshead Revisited
7

148129-)
One poem named after this city describes “the Zion of the water bead” and “the synagogue of the ear of corn.” That poem refuses to “blaspheme … with any further elegy of innocence and youth.” One poem named after this city remarks how a “Soldier’s sigh runs in blood down palace walls” before describing the cursing of young prostitutes. “After the first death, there is no other” ends a poem named after the (*) “Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in” this place. Another poem named after this city notes “marks of weakness, marks of woe” and “mind-forged manacles.” This city is compared to a “fen of stagnant waters” in a poem that apostrophizes “Milton! Thou shouldst be living at this hour.” For 10 points, name this city, namesake of a William Wordsworth poem named after it in 1802 and a William Blake poem describing “the chartered Thames.”
London Bonuses:
7

148140-)
In one work, this figure declares that “Thy gentle words / Are sweeter even than freedom long desired.” After being told “Many ... would be just / but live among their suffering fellow-men / as if none felt; they know not what they do,” this figure responds, “Thy words are like a cloud of winged snakes." One work about this figure ends with a speech about how “to defy Power, which seems omnipotent” is alone “Life, Joy, Empire, and Victory,” delivered by (*) Demogorgon. In another play, this character declares that “I would not change my painful plight ... for your servile humility” in response to Hermes chastising him for his “insolent” conduct. For 10 points, name this figure who is “unbound” in a closet drama by Percy Shelley, believed to be the focus of a trilogy by Aeschylus that included this figure as “the Fire-Bringer.”
Prometheus
7

148169-)
This author of a philosophical manifesto ostensibly about Thomas Hardy asked, “Oh what might not Milton have been, if he’d written under Calvin Coolidge!” in response to Harriet Monroe’s claim that monarchist society stifled British poetry. Along with “A Britisher Has a Word with an Editor,” this author wrote about a “cold, angry” glacier that looks like flesh beneath a “soft, deep epidermis,” likely symbolizing Alexander’s attempts to seduce Hannelore. This author of (*) The Captain’s Doll also wrote about a woman who thinks her husband is late to dinner because he’s drinking at a bar and is surprised when Annie goes into a “little rapture” about the sweet-smelling flower in her apron. In that story by this author, Elizabeth discovers that Walter has died in a coal mine. For 10 points, name this author of “The Odour of Chrysanthemums” and Sons and Lovers.
D.H. Lawrence
7

148170-)
A woman in this novel spends all her time writing letters for charities in Africa but ignores the fact that her child's head is stuck in a banister. This novel begins with a description of so much mud that one might see a Megalosaurus and “Fog everywhere.” A character in this novel who “honors” others by letting them pay his bills is named Mr. Skimpole. George Henry Lewes complained about the death of rag-and-bottle merchant Krook by (*) spontaneous combustion in this novel. Lady Dedlock goes undercover as her maid in order to discover that this novel’s narrator is her daughter. Richard Carstone and Ada Clare marry and receive an inheritance, but find that the legal fees for disputing it have spent it all. For 10 points, name this novel narrated by Esther Summerson about the Jarndyce v. Jarndyce Chancery court case, by Charles Dickens.
Bleak House
7

148213-)
In one novel, a man with this occupation watches a “fire festival” and thinks about “millions of lives” succeeding one another like waves. That man plans to “seduce everyone and everything, even history” before his lover drowns himself. Another character with this occupation addresses memoirs to the future after reading a prophecy about “hairy men” and writes a parody about gambling that is taken seriously. A letter to Mark makes up a Marguerite Yourcenar novel titled for the (*) “Memoirs” of a person with this occupation. Another character with this occupation loves the prostitute Calpurnia and hides behind a curtain; that historian is perpetually seen as “a fool” but survives the scheming of Livia. Robert Graves wrote a fictional autobiography about a stammering one of these people. For 10 points, name this occupation of Hadrian and Claudius.
Roman emperors [prompt on incomplete answer]
7

148228-)
The epilogue of this novel describes the married lives of its three central couples; one husband calls his wife his basil plant, since basil “was a plant that flourished wonderfully on a murdered man’s brains.” A Nazarene painter in this novel delights at the “antithesis” of an antique statue being looked at by “beauty in its breathing life,” and Naumann resolves to paint the “Quaker”-like woman as a nun. That woman’s husband spends their honeymoon reading in the (*) Vatican Library. A character in this novel tries to settle his gambling debts by selling a horse he buys at a fair, but fails terribly and is forced to ask Mr. Garth for money. After Fred develops typhoid, the young new doctor’s frequent visits create gossip that results in Tertius Lydgate somewhat unwillingly marrying Rosamond Vincy. For 10 points, name this novel about “provincial life,” by George Eliot.
Middlemarch
7

148230-)
This author created the fictional show Twice a Week or More, which is actually broadcast three times a week and offers the chance to maintain “the best of taste” in the absence of meetings of the Hayes Society. One of this author’s characters borrows his new boss’s car for a “motoring trip” on which he visits Mrs. Benn. This author wrote a novel whose characters go to Norfolk because they believe that lost things go there and who end up finding a (*) cassette. One of this author’s protagonists earnestly tries to become better at “the key to human worth,” banter. In a novel by this author, Madame reveals that “deferrals” never existed. This author who wrote about Lord Darlington’s butler Stevens also created Kathy, Ruth, and Tommy, clones raised to be organ donors. For 10 points, name this recent Nobel Laureate who wrote The Remains of the Day and Never Let Me Go.
Kazuo Ishiguro
7

148289-)
Harold Bloom claimed that this character dies not as a Christian martyr but as a victim to the “religion of Moloch.” This character’s mother had a maid named Barbara whose lover “prov’d mad,” and who taught this character a song about a poor soul who “sat sighing by a sycamore tree” whose “salt tears fell from her, and soften’d the stones,” the (*) “willow song”. Her name comes from the Greek for “unfortunate,” and she is described by her husband as an “ill-starred wench.” This character’s father is told that “an old black ram” is tupping his “white ewe,” which represents this character. This woman’s strawberry-embroidered handkerchief is used to convince her husband that she is being unfaithful, which causes him to smother her. For 10 points, name this woman whom Iago accuses of having an affair with Cassio and is the wife of Othello.
Desdemona Bonuses:
7

148295-)
Description acceptable. A man says “I don’t think two people could have been happier than we’ve been” before doing this action to avoid a party celebrating him winning the Carrouthers Prize in The Hours. That character was based on a man who does this action to avoid “human nature,” personified by the approaching Dr. Holmes. The headline of an anti-government pamphlet inspires a character to do this after being locked in a room by F. Alexander and made ill by (*) classical music due to the Ludovico Technique. Alex is rehabilitated at the end of A Clockwork Orange after performing this act, which Septimus Smith does to kill himself in Mrs. Dalloway. For 10 points, a flip-book animation at the end of Extremely Loud and Incredibly Close shows a man doing what action in reverse, in reference to people who performed it to escape the towers on 9/11?
defenestration [prompt on “falling”; accept reasonable equivalents like “jumping out of a window” or “being thrown out of a window”; prompt on “suicide”]
7

148307-)
A poem by this author addresses a “gentle-hearted” friend who “hast pined / and hunger’d after Nature, many a year.” In another poem, this author exclaims “But thou, my babe! shalt wander like a breeze” in a poem by this author describes a separation from “Friends, whom I never more may meet again” and imagines those friends journeying among the Quantocks, saying “Well, they are gone, and here must I (*) remain.” This author, who wrote about being “imprisoned” in a lime-tree bower during a visit with Charles Lamb, described “silent icicles / Quietly shining to the quiet moon,” in a poem addressed to his infant son Hartley, one of his “conversation poems.” An opium dream inspired this poet to write about “caverns measureless to man” and “stately pleasure-dome” in Xanadu. For 10 points, name this author of “Frost at Midnight” and “Kubla Khan.”
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
7

148554-)
This character reached a national US audience thanks to the 1930s radio plays of The New Penny writer Edith Mesier. A highlight of Soviet television in the late '70s was Vasily Livanov's portrayal of this character. Ronald Knox satirized applying Higher Criticism to the Bible with his lecture on the "Studies in the Literature of" this character. Franklin Roosevelt was an honorary member of a club devoted to him founded by Christopher Morley in 1934 and FDR even believed this character was born in the US. Members of Morley's trivia-obsessed organization devoted to this character participated in the (*) "Great Game" and were called "irregulars". This character's hat derives from non-textual illustrations by Sidney Paget and is called a deerstalker. The actor William Gillette created this character's catchphrase and gave him a curved pipe to smoke. For 10 points, name this detective created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Sherlock Holmes [or Sherlock Holmes]
9

148645-)
Two characters in a play by this author sing a song that follows the play’s title with, “If the women don’t get you, the liquor must.” At the end of that play by this author, Rebecca repeatedly tells Devlin that she doesn’t “know of any baby.” A character created by this playwright doesn’t go “the whole hog” during a two-hour sexual encounter, but tells his brother Lenny that he was satisfied anyway. Ruth, the only female character in that play by him, abandons her husband Teddy to work as a prostitute for his other family members. In another play by this author of Ashes to Ashes, two characters discuss the unseen character Wilson, as well as requests that they receive for “Ormitha Macarounada.” In that play by this author, the hitman Ben is hired to kill his partner Gus, an order that he receives from the title conveyance. For 10 points, name this author of “comedies of menace” such as The Homecoming and The Dumb Waiter.
Harold Pinter &lt;Drama&gt;
7

148665-)
A 2012 Scribner edition of a novel includes the “Fitzgerald” and “Live-Baby” varieties of these things compiled by its author’s grandson Seán. A pocket watch is turned back fifteen minutes between two of these things in a 1969 novel. A man says “we are friends” to a woman who replies “And will continue friends apart” before they hold hands in the original version of one of these scenes that was revised at the behest of Edward Bulwer-Lytton. Ernest Hemingway vacillated between 47 of them before settling on the sentence “After a while I went out and left the hospital and walked back to the hotel in the rain” for the scene of this type in A Farewell to Arms. A specific type of them gets its name from a scene in Thomas Hardy’s A Pair of Blue Eyes, in which Henry Knight slips and hangs off the edge of a cliff. O. Henry specialized in the “twist” form of, for 10 points, what narrative features?
endings [accept synonyms such as finales, conclusions, and final scenes; accept last sentences; accept last lines anti-prompt (ask “can you be less specific?”) on cliffhangers until “hangs” is read; none of them really apply, but prompt on plot twists until “twist” is read] (The first, second, and third sentences refer to A Farewell to Arms, The French Lieutenant’s Woman, and Great Expectations, respectively.) &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148691-)
This poem states that “the best portion of a good man’s life” consists of “His little, nameless, unremembered, acts / Of kindness and of love.” This poem declares that in “the light of setting suns, / And the round ocean, and the living air, / And the blue sky, and in the mind of man” lives a “motion and a spirit that impels / All thinking things.” It observes that an “eye made quiet by the power / Of harmony, and the deep power of joy” enables us to “see into the life of things.” This poem asks “my dear, dear friend… wilt thou then forget” that “these steep woods and lofty cliffs, / And this green pastoral landscape, were to me / More dear, both for themselves, and for thy sake” in its closing address to the author’s sister Dorothy, who had accompanied him five years earlier on a walk along the river Wye. For 10 points, name this poem titled for a ruined church, written by William Wordsworth.
“Tintern Abbey” [or “Lines Written a Few Miles above Tintern Abbey, on Revisiting the Banks of the Wye during a Tour, July 13, 1798”; accept “composed” in place of “written” in the longer title] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
7

148706-)
John Crowe Ransom analogized the tension between poetry and prose in this poem to a duel between Mr. A and Mr. B that devolves into stone-throwing, in his essay “A Poem Nearly Anonymous.” This poem laments that “the blind Fury with the abhorred shears… slits the thin-spun life,” prompting Phoebus to touch its speaker’s “trembling / ears” and declare that “Fame is no plant that grows on mortal soil.” Critics remain puzzled about this poem’s image of a “two-handed engine at the door” that “Stands ready to smite once, and smite no / more.” In its first stanza, the speaker tells “ye laurels” and “ye myrtles brown” that “I come to pluck your berries harsh and crude,” then asks: “Who would not sing for” this poem’s title character. The subject of this poem is reborn as “the Genius of the shore” after drowning in a shipwreck. For 10 points, name this pastoral elegy for Edward King, written by John Milton.
“Lycidas” &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
7

148711-)
An essay by Rebecca West argues that people cannot be dissuaded from this practice when it seems to their advantage unless they have been brought up with “common worship” and “folk songs.” The narrator of another essay claims that he can produce a certificate as “big as a breakfast tablecloth” to prove that he does not engage in this practice, after explaining how “grouping, light, shade, poetry” and “sentiment” are now essential to it. Another essay argues that the “great period” of this practice was between 1850 and 1925, before criticizing an example of it involving Elizabeth Jones and Karl Hulten for lacking “depth of feeling.” Thomas De Quincey wrote an essay on this practice “considered as one of the fine arts.” For 10 points, name this type of crime analyzed by George Orwell in an essay on the “decline” of its “English” variety that cites examples such as Jack the Ripper.
murder [accept English murder; accept synonyms; prompt on crime] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
7

148720-)
Apart from “A,” this is the first word in the title of a poem that opens: “I’ll tell thee now (dear Love) what thou shalt do / To anger destiny, as she doth us.” T. S. Eliot wrote that a poem whose title starts with this word demands “considerable agility” to comprehend the double comparison of a globe to a tear, and of a tear to a deluge. Poems of this type “of the Book” and “of Weeping” appear in the volume Songs and Sonnets alongside a third example describing a love “inter-assurèd of the mind, / Care less, eyes, lips, and hands to miss.” The speaker asserts “’Twere profanation of our joys / To tell the laity our love” in that poem titled for this genre, which asserts: “Thy firmness makes my circle just / And makes me end where I begun,” at the end of an extended metaphor comparing two souls to points on a compass. For 10 points, John Donne wrote what type of farewell address “forbidding mourning?”
valediction [accept “A Valediction of the Book”; accept “A Valediction of Weeping”; accept “A Valediction Forbidding Mourning”] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
7

148734-)
Regina Gagnier’s (“GAHN-yay’s”) book The Idylls of the Marketplace argues that this author’s work functioned as a protest against the commodification of art through notions of utility. In one work, this author wrote that “Watteau would have loved to paint” two women who sit in front of a tapestry inspired by François Boucher’s (“boo-SHAY’s”) The Triumph of Love. He analyzed the case of the art critic and serial killer Thomas Griffiths Wainewright in his essay “Pen, Pencil, and Poison.” This author compared the response to realism and romanticism to different “rage[s] of Caliban” in the preface to a work in which the chemist Alan Campbell helps dispose of the body of a murdered painter. In that novel by this author, Lord Henry Wotton watches Basil Hallward paint the title artwork, which ages instead of its subject. For 10 points, name this author of An Ideal Husband and The Picture of Dorian Gray.
Oscar Wilde &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
7

148753-)
In this novel, a dark-haired girl in the “Golden Country” flings off all her clothes with a single sweep of the arm that “seemed to annihilate a whole culture,” in a dream from which the protagonist awakens “with the word ‘Shakespeare’ on his lips.” After the protagonist of this novel helps up a girl with her arm in a sling who has stumbled and fallen, she passes him a note that reads: “I love you.” A couple in this novel conducts trysts at a series of odd locations, like a forest clearing, a noisy street market, a ruined church tower, and finally the rented room above Mr. Charrington’s shop. A woman in this novel publicly wears a scarlet sash signaling her membership in the Junior Anti-Sex League, while privately conducting affairs with members of the Inner Party. For 10 points, name this novel in which O’Brien forces Julia and Winston to betray one another, written by George Orwell.
Nineteen Eighty-Four &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148770-)
A character in this novella accuses another of being a “blot of mustard” or a “fragment of underdone potato” before threatening to swallow a toothpick. At the end of this novella, that character is described as practicing the “Total Abstinence Principle,” and earlier witnesses Mrs. Dilber and Joe divide a bounty of teaspoons, boots, and “bed-curtains.” In this novella, a giant wearing a green robe and a rusty scabbard without a sword describes a vision of a “vacant seat” and a “crutch without an owner.” Its protagonist is asked “are there no prisons?” and “are there no workhouses?” while being shown two children named Ignorance and Want in this novella’s third “stave.” At the end of this novella, the protagonist sends a prized turkey to the family of his employee Bob Cratchit and becomes a “second father” to Tiny Tim. For 10 points, name this Charles Dickens novella about Ebenezer Scrooge.
A Christmas Carol &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
7

148774-)
The protagonist of a novel by this author is too absorbed in thinking about how Keats felt being spurned by Wordsworth to notice that assassins enter the restaurant he’s in and gun down a man at the next table. One of his protagonists swats at nettles that she imagines to be her past selves and her cousins. This author wrote a fictional psychiatric case study as an appendix to a novel in which John Logan falls to his death trying to rescue a child trapped in an unmoored hot air balloon. In his best-known novel, a man mixes up a letter apologizing to a woman with one describing his sexual fantasies for her. That novel by him is styled as the memoir of a 77-year-old woman who as a teenager had falsely accused her family’s gardener Robbie Turner of raping her cousin Lola. For 10 points, name this English author of Enduring Love and a novel about the writer Briony Tallis, Atonement.
Ian (Russell) McEwan &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148792-)
A character in this play declares that poverty is the worst crime and that all other crimes are “virtues beside it.” That character notes that one of his ancestors sold cannons to Napoleon “under the nose of George III,” while another remarked “If God gave the hand, let not man withhold the sword.” This play’s title character recalls that Lord Saxmundham used “letters of fire against the sky” to promote Bodger’s Whiskey while unsuccessfully attempting to convince Mrs. Baines to refuse a donation made by him. In this play, a Greek scholar reveals that his parents were married in Australia, which makes him a foundling and thus eligible to inherit an arms manufacturing business. Adolphus Cusins is engaged to the title character of this play, who is the daughter of Andrew Undershaft. For 10 points, name this play whose title character quits the Salvation Army, a work by George Bernard Shaw.
Major Barbara &lt;Drama&gt;
7

148806-)
This author created a character who sees an apparition of a young boy’s face after stealing an offering of grapes set in front of a bronze statue of Pan. In a story by this author, the Duke of Scaw uses a mystical process called “koepenickery” to replace politicians with angels. A recurring character created by this author of “The Music on the Hill” and “Ministers of Grace” poses as Stanislaus, the secretary of a Bishop who is ostensibly plotting to massacre 26 Jews, in order to administer an “unrest-cure” to J. P. Huddle. A story by this author ends with a boy making a piece of toast after Mrs. De Ropp is killed by the title polecat-ferret. In his best-known story, Mr. Nuttel flees after seeing three hunters through the title entrance. For 10 points, name this pseudonymous British author of “Sredni Vashtar” and “The Open Window.”
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro] &lt;Short Fiction&gt;
7

148838-)
A play titled for this character is the origin of the saying: “Nothing has more strength than dire necessity.” In one play, after being informed that her current husband plans to sacrifice her, this character flees forward in time to a castle, where she is taught to speak in rhyme by her future husband. In another play, a male character declares that “all is dross that is not” this character, and asks her to “make me immortal with a kiss.” An eidolon (“EYE-doh-lawn”) of this character is stowed in a cave but then vanishes, while the real version of this character is found in Egypt by her shipwrecked husband in a play titled for her by Euripides. Before kissing this character, Marlowe’s Doctor Faustus asks: “Was this the face that launched a thousand ships / And burnt the topless towers of Ilium?” For 10 points, name this mythological beauty, who leaves her husband Menelaus (“men-uh-LAY-us”) for the prince Paris, thus causing the Trojan War.
Helen of Troy [or Helen of Sparta; or Helena] &lt;Drama&gt;
7

148845-)
Two of this author’s characters compete to see who can kill the most cockroaches in their apartment, but end up arguing over the rules of the game. In another novel by this author, a Judas-like character with yellow eyes and fangs protruding from his lower lip hands the protagonist a note purportedly written by the bank robber and killer James Calver. One of this author’s protagonists pretends to suffer from angina to obtain a prescription for pills so that he can disguise his suicide as an accidental overdose. In that novel by him, the protagonist sends his wife Louise on vacation to South Africa so that she can escape his dreary life as a police commissioner. This author’s four major “Catholic novels” include The Heart of the Matter and a book in which “the lieutenant” hunts a “whiskey priest” in Mexico. For 10 points, name this English author of The Power and the Glory.
(Henry) Graham Greene &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148849-)
In a poem by this author, a character wearing an “ermined gown” weeps tears that turn into millstones, causing nearby children, “thinking every tear a gem,” to get “their brains knocked out by them.” The apocalyptic image of “vapours, from whose solid atmosphere / Black rain, and fire, and hail will burst” concludes the second section of a poem by this author, which earlier describes “pestilence-stricken multitudes.” A figure on a white horse commands: “Rise like Lions after slumber / In unvanquishable number,” in a poem by this author whose speaker declares: “I met murder on the way / He had a mask like Castlereagh.” The Peterloo massacre informs this author’s “The Masque of Anarchy,” as well as less overtly political poem by him that ends by asking: “If winter comes, can spring be far behind?” For 10 points, name this English poet of “Ode to the West Wind” and “To a Skylark.”
Percy (Bysshe) Shelley &lt;Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
7

148868-)
Meisei University in Tokyo houses a copy of this document through which a bullet has penetrated half the pages. The letters “A” through “E” designate, in decreasing order of competence, the five compositors who set this document to type. The sections of this document that weren’t professionally annotated by Ralph Crane were transcribed from “foul papers.” This book’s cover, which features Martin Droeshout’s (“DROO-shout’s”) illustration of its author, faces a poetic preface urging the reader to “looke / Not on his picture, but his Booke.” This book includes a “eulogy” declaring that its author was “not of an age, but for all time,” written by Ben Jonson. The 36 entries of this book are divided into comedies, histories, and tragedies, and exclude The Two Noble Kinsmen and Pericles, Prince of Tyre. For 10 points, name this definitive 1623 edition of all but two of Shakespeare’s plays.
First Folio [accept Mr. William Shakespeare’s Comedies, Histories, &amp; Tragedies until “Shakespeare” is read] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
7

148880-)
A bearded figure in this novel “wails with the vehemence of the ocean” as he smites a giant crayfish with a bicycle pump. When a broken mirror is held up to a character in this novel, he quips that such a “cracked lookingglass of a servant” is the ideal symbol for his country’s art. This novel presents the theory that Edmund from King Lear was named after a man whom Anne Hathaway slept with, and that Shakespeare wrote himself into Hamlet as the ghost of the prince’s father. A character in this novel calls God a “shout in the street” during a debate with the schoolmaster Mr. Deasy that parallels a hockey game played by the students of the history class he teaches. Buck Mulligan defends a rude remark about his friend’s dead mother in this novel’s first episode, “Telemachus.” For 10 points, a slightly older Stephen Dedalus crosses paths with Leopold Bloom in what novel by James Joyce?
Ulysses &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
7

148898-)
A. C. Bradley argued that this character “is denied the dignity of verse” while performing a certain action. This character exclaims “Hell is murky!” before claiming that “none can hold our power to account.” The Waiting-Gentlewoman refuses to tell the Doctor what this character says without an independent witness. An intentionally pointless question about this character titles the best-known essay by Lionel Knights. This character is described as having “light by her continually” before she laments that “all the perfumes of Arabia” will not mask the smell of blood. Sarah Siddons controversially placed a candle on the ground in her portrayal of this character during a scene in which she sleepwalks and cries “Out, damned spot!” while miming washing her hands. For 10 points, name this Scottish noblewoman who convinces her husband to kill Duncan in a play by William Shakespeare.
Lady Macbeth [do not accept or prompt on “Macbeth”; accept “How Many Children Had Lady Macbeth?”] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
7

148933-)
In this story, an “undefinable something” suggesting “masculine habitation” is sensed by a man wondering whether a woman is married or widowed. In this story, the voice of a teenager loses its “self-possessed” tone when speaking of a man who carries a “white waterproof coat.” A man who asks the question “Bertie, why do you bound?” in this story is part of a group accompanied by a “brown spaniel.” The line (*) “romance at short notice was her specialty” ends this story after a ghost-fearing character runs away after hearing about hunters returning through the title location. For 10 points, Framton Nuttel visits Mrs. Sappleton in what story by Saki, which is titled for a French object used to view a lawn?
“The Open Window” &lt;WA, Short&gt;
6

148943-)
One of this author’s characters skims a newspaper, reading lines like “Dr. Carolus Hunter dead in a tub,” ignoring a woman who watches a parasol burst into flames. The set for one of this author’s plays is lit only by a spotlight shining on a woman’s mouth; that play is collected in the book Ends and Odds. A character created by this author replies “Hmm. It’d give us an erection” when asked “What about (*) hanging ourselves?” A woman named Winnie is buried waist-deep in dirt in this author’s play Happy Days. A man fails to take off his boot at the beginning of a play by him, whose set includes a leafless tree. For 10 points, Vladimir and Estragon appear in what Irish playwright’s Waiting for Godot?
Samuel (Barclay) Beckett &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
6

148979-)
This author wrote an anonymous essay objecting that contemporary novels intended for women were “silly” and proposed a more realistic vision of the novel in “The Natural History of German Life.” Ludwig Feuerbach’s idea of Christianity influenced this author, who translated Feuerbach and Spinoza into English. In a novel by this author, kabbalah terms are used to describe a meeting along the Thames with Mordecai. In another novel by this author, a bag of stolen gold is found at the bottom of a (*) pit with the skeleton of Dunstan. This author wrote about a young Jewish man in Germany who loves Gwendolen Harleth in one novel, and another about a man who adopts Godfrey’s daughter Eppie. For 10 points, name this author of Daniel Deronda and Silas Marner.
George Eliot [or Mary Anne Evans] &lt;WA, OtherLit&gt;
6

148996-)
The original sequel to this play survives only through fragments recorded by eleven writers, including Cicero, whose description may instead be a ripoff from a play by Accius [ACK-ee-us]. In a re-imagining of that sequel to this play, the French Revolution may be allegorized by a shadowy demon who speaks with Asia. In this play, the advice “Know thyself; change thy course” and a cautioning against a sharp tongue are given to the protagonist by Oceanus, whose children form the (*) chorus. At its end, a character refuses to say who will bear a son greater than Zeus to Hermes, and is thus struck with fire and lightning. In a sequel to this play written by Percy Shelley, Heracles kills the eagle that torments its protagonist. For 10 points, name this Aeschylus [ESS-kuh-lus] play whose title Titan is chained to a rock.
Prometheus Bound [or Prometheus Desmotes; do not accept “Prometheus Unbound”] (Accius wrote a then-famous play about Prometheus) &lt;WA, Drama&gt;
6

149035-)
While standing alone in the moonlight, this character discovers “Time and Death and God” after being rejected from a rite of passage. At an event named for him, the Arch-Community-Songster makes an appearance but leaves in disgust with a woman that this character calls an “impudent strumpet.” This character’s mother is considered promiscuous by a group that includes her lover Popé, who gives him the complete works of (*) Shakespeare. This watcher of Three Weeks in a Helicopter refuses to take a substance referred to as “Christianity without tears” in a conversation with Mustapha Mond, who controls the State that this character is brought to from his home in Malpais. For 10 points, name this character from Brave New World who is nicknamed “the Savage.”
John the Savage &lt;JM, LongFic&gt;
6

149057-)
This author’s words “Such sweet compulsion doth in music lie” are spoken by the Genius of the Wood in the poem Arcades. This poet wrote “Come, and trip it as you go / On the light fantastic toe,” leading to the modern-day idiom “trip the light fantastic” in a poem that states “These delights if thou canst give / Mirth, with thee I mean to live.” This poet wrote a pair of poems opening “Hence, loathed Melancholy” and “Hence, vain deluding Joys” that contrast a (*) happy man and a serious one. Thomas Gray’s “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard” imagines “some mute inglorious” version of this poet. For 10 points, L’allegro and Il penseroso are poems by what English writer of Paradise Lost?
John Milton &lt;RY, Poetry&gt;
6

149073-)
A poem about these animals states that a man’s “tongue shall be filled with praise” because he follows them. In another poem, the speaker asks if this animal was seen on “England’s pleasant pastures” after asking if “those feet in ancient time / Walked upon England’s mountains.” This animal makes “all the vales rejoice” with its “tender voice” in another poem, which remarks on its (*) “clothing of delight.” In that poem, this animal is seen “by the stream and o’er the mead” and called “meek and mild” before the poem proclaims “God bless thee!” For 10 points, what animal is asked “Dost thou know who made thee?” in a William Blake poem that is often contrasted with “The Tyger”?
lamb [accept Lamb of God; accept sheep] &lt;JM, Poetry&gt;
6

149081-)
The book Seven Types of Ambiguity cites this writer’s construction “the A and B of C,” as in the sentence “Whether it be the fault and glimpse of newness,” describing why a deputy is so strict. An essay about this writer states “The end of writing is to instruct; the end of poetry is to instruct by pleasing.” A children’s book of “Tales from” this writer was created by Mary and Charles Lamb. A preface to his edited works was written by Samuel (*) Johnson. Thomas de Quincey wrote an essay “On the Knocking at the Gate” in a play by this man, in which a speech beginning “Tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow” is the source of William Faulkner’s title The Sound and the Fury. For 10 points, the First Folio collects the works of what Englishman nicknamed “the Bard?”
William Shakespeare &lt;RY, OtherLit&gt;
6

149094-)
This man is compared to “Alexander the Pig” by a soldier with a thick accent, who thinks that the way Alexander killed Cleitus the Black is similar to how this man ignored a dying friend. This man orders the off-stage execution of Bardolph and Nym, and arranges a duel with Michael Williams. This man woos Katherine in a mixture of English and French after defeating a man who sent him a gift of tennis balls. Sir John Falstaff (*) dies offstage in the play titled for this man, who commands “Once more unto the breach, dear friends” at Harfleur, and calls his men “we happy few, we band of brothers” in the St. Crispin’s Day speech. For 10 points, name this English king who wins the Battle of Agincourt.
Henry V [accept Prince Hal] &lt;RY, Drama&gt;
6

149105-)
In response to criticism of this poem’s difficulty, its author took out some archaic words from the version published in the collection Sibylline Leaves. The speaker of this poem laments “No voice did they impart!” in describing the silence of a “seraph-band” near the holy rood, and desires “to walk together to the kirk” from which he departs. This poem describes a spirit from the “land of mist and snow” who loved a creature that both “brought the fog and mist” and (*) “made the breeze to blow.” It details how a man’s fate is decided in a game of dice between Death and Life-In-Death. In this poem, the Wedding-Guest learns how the title character used his crossbow to shoot an albatross. For 10 points, name this long poem about a sailor by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
“The Rime of the Ancient Mariner” &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
6

149118-)
An odd passage in this novel that twice notes “Never did anybody look so sad” is analyzed in Erich Auerbach’s essay “The Brown Stockings.” In this novel, a possible reading of a painting of a mother and child as a “purple shadow without irreverence” is noted by an elderly botanist. The author’s parents, Julia and Leslie Stephen, are probably reflected in two parents in this novel, one of whom praises his teenage son for steadily steering a sailboat. A sexist philosopher in this novel discourages a hopeful illustrator of (*) “The Charge of the Light Brigade.” Sections in parentheses describe Andrew’s death at war in this novel, in which Charles Tansley watches over Lily Briscoe. For 10 points, the Ramsay family journeys to the title location of what Virginia Woolf novel?
To the Lighthouse &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
6

149180-)
This phrase is followed by a description of “death’s darts flying overhead” in reference to Parthian tactics in the ode it originates from. Drafts of a work titled for this phrase written at Craiglockhart hospital were ironically dedicated to Jessie Pope. A work titled for this phrase imagines people “deaf even to the hoots” of “outstripped Five-Nines.” In that poem, this phrase appears at the end of a stanza that wishes the reader would “watch the (*) white eyes writhing in his face / His hanging face, like a devil’s sick of sin.” An “ecstasy of fumbling” is described in a poem titled for this phrase, which originates from an ode by Horace and is called an “old lie” to “children ardent for some desperate glory.” For 10 points, Wilfred Owen titled an anti-war poem for what Latin phrase?
“Dulce et decorum est” [accept “Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori”; accept reasonable translations of the full phrase, such as “It is sweet and seemly to die for one’s country” or “What a joy, to die for the fatherland”] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
6

149200-)
This book says men marry because “possession is impossible without marriage” but women do since “marriage is impossible without possession” in a chapter where Cainy is asked to leave. In this novel, a man splits a caterpillar in two and cuts a lock of hair in a flashy show of swordplay. At the end of its first chapter, “Vanity” is said to be the flaw of a “handsome maid” who later moves to a nearby town, and flirts with a neighboring 40-year-old farmer in (*) Weatherbury by sending a valentine saying “marry me.” A character in this novel is financially ruined when his inexperienced dog George drives his sheep off a cliff. Sergeant Troy features in this novel, which takes its title from “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard.” For 10 points, Bathsheba Everdeen appears in what Thomas Hardy novel?
Far From the Madding Crowd &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
6

149213-)
W. D. Snodgrass argued that this author allegorized the bad effects of masturbation in one story by reading it in the context of this author’s essay “Pornography and Obscenity.” In a story by this author, a mother explains to a son who is bound for Eton College that “If you’re lucky you have money” in a house that is “haunted” by the phrase “There must be more money!” In that story by this author, Hester’s child (*) Paul is able to predict the victors of races by riding a toy in his room. A sensational 1960 obscenity trial against Penguin Books resulted from a publication of this author’s novel about an affair between Oliver Mellors and Constance. For 10 points, name this author of “The Rocking-Horse Winner” and Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
D. H. Lawrence [David Herbert Lawrence] &lt;WA, Short&gt;
6

149243-)
This novel sees Zillah and Joseph serve in the home of the gloomy and morose protagonist, who is often called a gypsy because of his dark skin. In this novel, that protagonist returns with mysteriously acquired wealth and digs up his true love’s grave so that he can see her one last time. (*) This novel, narrated by Nelly Dean and Mr. Lockwood, sees the protagonist marry Isabella to inherit Thrushcross Grange. For 10 points, name this novel which talks about Heathcliff’s relationship with Catherine Earnshaw, the only novel by Emily Brontë.
Wuthering Heights
3

149262-)
One novel by this man describes a dystopian society in which nuclear weapons have destroyed everything except New Zealand. That work is Apes and Essence. In another novel, a character based on Baudelaire is shot by the Brotherhood of British Freemen as Beethoven’s String Quartet No. 15 plays. A character in that work, Walter (*) Bidlake, falls in love with Lucy Tantamount. His most prominent novel includes a society whose religious rituals include flagellation. That work begins with a tour of the Hatchery and describes John the Savage’s induction into the World State. For 10 points, name this author of Point Counter Point and Brave New World.
Aldous Huxley
3

149269-)
An iconoclastic response to this poem by Anthony Hecht mocks “that bitter allusion to the sea.” This poem references a metaphor that describes the sea “like the folds of a bright girdle furled” and its “long, withdrawing roar.” Mention is made in this poem to (*) Sophocles who heard the “turbid ebb and flow of human misery” on the Aegean. Concluding with the line that the title location is where “ignorant armies clash by night,” for 10 points, name this poem by Matthew Arnold describing the cliffs of England.
“Dover Beach”
3

149304-)
One character in this work “awaited the young man carbuncular” who assaults her with “exploring hands” that “encounter no defense.” Another character “had a bad cold,” but was nevertheless “known to be the wisest woman in Europe.” That character, (*) Madame Sosostris, warns of death by drowning, a fate later suffered by Phlebas the Phoenician. In its concluding section, reference is made to the Upanishads as the Thunder says: “Datta,” “Dayadhvam,” “Damyata.” “Shantih, Shantih, Shantih” is the last line of, for 10 points, what modernist poem by T.S Eliot that begins “April is the cruelest month”?
The Waste Land
3

149309-)
In this play, a millionaire is convinced that a man is the “most original moralist” of England and pays him to give lectures on morality. Clara is impressed with the “new small talk” of a girl who hurls slippers at another character in this play. That girl marries (*) Freddy Eynsford Hill. This play has been adapted as the musical and film My Fair Lady. Professor Higgins tries to teach Eliza Doolittle to speak like a duchess in, for 10 points, what George Bernard Shaw play named after a mythical character that fell in love with one of his sculptures?
Pygmalion Tiebreaker
3

149317-)
The author of this play rejected an alternate ending written by Herbert Tree, and one character receives a fortune from Ezra Wannafeller after he is praised for being England’s “most original moralist.” The heroine of this play throws her slippers at a man who had previously passed off her comments as “the new small talk.” This play centers on a(*) phonetics professor’s bet with Colonel Pickering that he can pass a Cockney flower girl off as a duchess. For 10 points, name this play about Eliza Doolittle and her teacher Henry Higgins, written by George Bernard Shaw.
Pygmalion &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149324-)
A character disguised as a man with this profession reveals his identity as the bachelor Sampson Carrasco at an inn. An Aristophanes [“Air-is-tof-oh-nees”] play titled for characters with this profession features a sausage seller named Agoracritus and the slave Creon. In a different work, a character of this profession searches for what women most(*) desire. Another section of that same work sees two men of this profession, named Arcite and Palamon, fight for the hand of Emily. Don Quixote is challenged by one “of the White Moon.” For 10 points, name this occupation of Lancelot and other members of the Round Table.
knights [or the Knight of the White Moon; or The Knight’s Tale; or the Knights of the Round Table] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149344-)
A character in this novel learns French by listening to Felix De Lacey read the book Ruins of Empires. The books The Sorrows of Werter and Paradise Lost influence one character in this novel, and lead him to resent his “accursed Creator.” This novel’s title character studies Agrippa and Paracelsus at(*) Ingolstadt, and sees his brother William and his friend Henry Clerval murdered by his creation. For 10 points, name this novel about Victor and the monster he makes from human body parts, written by Mary Shelley.
Frankenstein; Or, The Modern Prometheus &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149351-)
In a novel by this author, a woman steals an umbrella from a struggling insurance clerk at a performance of Beethoven’s Fifth Symphony. In that novel by this author, Leonard Bast dies of a heart attack after being shoved into a bookcase by Charles Wilcox. In another novel by this author, Lucy break off her engagement with Cecil(*) Vyse to be with George Emerson. This author of Howard’s End and A Room with a View wrote a novel about Dr. Aziz being accused of sexual assault in the Marabar Caves. For 10 points, name this British author of A Passage to India.
E. M. Forster [or Edward Morgan Forster] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149360-)
The speaker of this poem claims he “gave commands then all smiles stopped” after describing his choice “never to stoop.” This poem ends with a description of a bronze statue by Claus of Innsbruck, depicting Neptune riding a seahorse. The narrator of this poem disapproves of the title character’s(*) joy from gifts of a “white mule” and a “bough of cherries.” In this poem, the subject of a portrait by Fra Pandolf has a heart “too soon made glad.” For 10 points, name this poem, narrated by the Duke of Ferrara, written by Robert Browning.
“My Last Duchess” &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149385-)
In one novel by this author, the governess Dante will not allow the protagonist to marry Eileen Vance, due to her Protestantism. In another novel by this author, a character describes her love affair with Hugh Boylan in a stream-of-consciousness soliloquy ending “yes I said yes I will Yes.” In that novel by this author, Leopold(*) Bloom meets Stephen Daedalus while wandering Dublin on June 16th, 1904. For 10 points, name this Irish author of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Ulysses.
James Joyce [or James Augustine Aloysius Joyce] &lt;Tyler Benedict&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
3

149401-)
This author spoke to the “Lord of our far-flung battle line” in a poem that repeats, “Lest we forget--lest we forget!” Another of this author’s poems advises the reader to “fill the unforgiving minute with sixty seconds’ worth of distance run” in a poem that ends “you’ll be a(*) man my son!” This poet of “Recessional” wrote about a water-bearer that the speaker claims is “a better man than I am.” For 10 points, name this British poet of “Gunga Din” and “If--”, who wrote about Mowgli in The Jungle Book.
Rudyard Kipling [or Joseph Rudyard Kipling] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt; /&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149415-)
One character in this play claims “The lunatic, the lover, and the poet / are of imagination all compact.” A group of “rude mechanicals” in this play are assigned roles such as a wall and moonlight when performing Pyramus and Thisbe [“Peer-ah-mus and Thiz-bee”]. A queen in this play becomes infatuated with a(*) donkey-headed character, who was originally the snob actor Nick Bottom before meeting Puck. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play that ends with Helena marrying Demetrius, and Lysander marrying Hermia.
A Midsummer Night’s Dream &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149424-)
In one work by this author, Lady Waldermar wants the title character to convince Marian Erle and Romney to break up. This poet wrote the verse novel Aurora Leigh, and began one collection with the line “I thought once how Theocritus had sung.” The thirty-third poem in that collection by this author begins, “Yes, call me by my(*) pet name!” For 10 points, name this poet who asked “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways” in her collection Sonnets from the Portuguese.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [prompt on Browning] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149444-)
In one poem, this author stated “In the sea of life” “we mortal millions live alone,” and notes “How changed is here each spot man makes or fills!” in an elegy for Arthur Clough. This poet of “To Marguerite” and “Thyrsis” described an “eternal note of sadness” that (*) “Sophocles long ago” “heard on the Aegean,” in a poem that begins “The sea is calm tonight.” For 10 points, name this British poet, who described a place where “ignorant armies clash by night,” in “Dover Beach.”
Matthew Arnold &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149469-)
The speaker of this poem asks, “Who is the third who walks beside you?” and in the first section Marie is told to “hold on tight” while sledding. An Evelyn Waugh [“wah”] novel was titled after this poem’s line “I will show you fear in a handful of dust.” The words(*) “Shantih shantih shantih” appear in the last section of this poem, “What the Thunder Said.” For 10 points, name this Modernist poem that begins “April is the cruelest month,” written by T.S. Eliot.
“The Waste Land” &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149488-)
An unnamed character in this novel who has a “mulberry-marked face” disappears following a forest fire. After one character is killed in this novel, his body is surrounded by glowing fish, while in another scene, Johnny and Percival have their sandcastles destroyed by Roger and Maurice. The discovery that the(*) beast in this novel is actually a dead parachutist is made by the innocent boy Simon. The conch is used to call votes in, for 10 points, what novel by William Golding, where Ralph and Jack struggle for power on a deserted island?
Lord of the Flies &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149489-)
One man looking for this item learns of its meaning during a stay with Trevrizent [“Trev-ree-zent”]. Titurel and Frimutel had bequeathed this item, called the lapsit exillis, to the wounded Anfortas, who is kept alive by this item.  In another story about this item, it was brought to the island of Sarras by three knights, though only(*) Bors would end up returning home. Parsifal saw this item without knowing what it was, and while Lancelot searched in vain for this item, his son Galahad was able to see it. For 10 points, name this vessel from which Jesus Christ supposedly drank at the Last Supper.
Holy Grail &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
3

149501-)
One character in this novel becomes engaged to Miss Grey for financial security and had scandalously impregnated Eliza Williams. After another character in this novel is disowned by his mother, Lucy Steele leaves him for his brother Robert. One of the protagonists of this novel twists her(*) ankle while running down a hill at Barton Park, and later rejects John Willoughby. Edward Ferrars and Colonel Brandon marry Elinor and Marianne at the end of, for 10 points, what Jane Austen novel about the Dashwood sisters?
Sense and Sensibility &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149522-)
In this work, a thief leads twelve men into a barrow after they catch him stealing from it. Aeschere is abducted in this work while asleep, and he is soon after decapitated. John Gardner wrote a retelling of this work, named after one of the antagonists. The first word in this work is (*) “Hwæt,” meaning “Listen” or “Lo,” which Seamus Heaney translates as “So.” Wiglaf becomes the new ruler of the Danes in this work after the title character is slain by a dragon. For 10 points, name this Old English poem about a Viking that slays the monster Grendel.
“Beowulf”
3

149527-)
In one play by this man, Lord Augustus becomes enamored with the mysterious mother of the title character, who runs away to Lord Darlington’s house after suspecting that her husband is having an affair with Mrs. Erlynne. In another of this author’s plays, two bunburying characters charm (*) Gwendolen Fairfax and Cecily Cardew by pretending to have the title name. This author of “Lady Windermere’s Fan” wrote a book in which Basil Hallward paints a picture that ages in place of its subject. For 10 points, name this author of The Importance of Being Earnest and The Picture of Dorian Grey.
Oscar Wilde
3

149536-)
A woman with this first name is displeased when her sister-in-law, Lady Susan Vernon, visits her in a short epistolary novel. In another novel by the same author, the protagonist with this first name loves Gothic novels like (*) Castle of Wolfenbach and Mysterious Warnings and is “in training [to become] a heroine.” That character visits Bath with the Allens and marries Henry Tilney. For 10 points, give the given first name of Elizabeth Bennet’s younger sister, Kitty, from Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice.
Catherine [do NOT accept “Kate”]
3

149552-)
In this character’s first appearance, he is only a week old in the novel The Little White Bird. In a subsequent play, this title character wears clothes made of autumn leaves and cobwebs. He visits Bloomsbury and loses his (*) shadow. This character invites a young girl to be the mother of his gang, children who were lost in Kensington Gardens when they fell out of their prams. In another scene, this character returns to Bloomsbury to bring Jane to Neverland. For 10 points, name this character created by J.M. Barrie, a young boy who refuses to grow up.
Peter Pan [accept either] Packet 6 – Bonuses
3

149568-)
In this novel, a Christian Arab woman is taken in by a poor French family after leaving Islamic Turkey. Another character in this novel promises to travel to South America with his lover after making a deal with the title character, who is later imprisoned for murdering (*) Clerval. The protagonist chases the murderer of his wife, Elizabeth, all the way to the Arctic, where he meets Captain Walton. Victor ultimately dies before catching his creation in, for 10 points, what novel about a scientist who builds a monster out of body parts, a work by Mary Shelley?
Frankenstein
3

149593-)
This author’s poem “The Gods of the Copybook Headings” was included in T.S. Eliot’s namesake collection of this author’s poems. This author’s poem about Victorian-era manliness was addressed to his son, John, and begins with (*) “If you can keep your head when all about you.” This author’s poem about an English soldier in India who regrets the death of the title character, a bhisti, ends with the famous line, “You’re a better man than I am, Gunga Din!” For 10 points, name this British author of “The White Man’s Burden” and “Mandalay,” also known for his novel, The Jungle Book.
Rudyard Kipling Tiebreaker
3

149598-)
One character in this work warns that the protagonist is “making the beast with two backs” to discredit his position among the senators. That same villain starts a drunken brawl by getting Cassio drunk. In this play, the title character mishears a discussion about a planted (*) handkerchief and becomes convinced his wife Desdemona is unfaithful. This is part of Iago’s elaborate plan to destroy the title protagonist, although his motivations are never really clarified. For 10 points name this Shakespearean tragedy featuring a Moorish admiral of Venice.
Othello
3

149630-)
A powerful lawyer in this novel incessantly washes his hands to prevent criminal corruption from tainting him. The protagonist of this novel is nicknamed Handel by his friend, Herbert Pocket, because of his former experience as a blacksmith. That protagonist’s wealthy and mysterious benefactor is revealed to be the escaped (*) convict Abel Magwitch. In this work, the eccentric Miss Havisham inhabits a room full of stopped clocks and raises her adopted daughter Estella to break the hearts of men. For 10 points, name this novel that follows the development of the orphan Pip, by Charles Dickens.
Great Expectations
3

149651-)
This character attributes the unexpected growth of barley to mere luck, and later has a dream in which a man descends in a “great black cloud” and angrily urges him to repent his sins. This character travels with Xury before being rescued by a Portuguese captain. He is based on the real-life Alexander(*) Selkirk, and is shocked to see footprints in the sand, which he initially believes belong to the devil. For 10 points, name this sailor who finds his companion Friday on a deserted island, the title character of a novel by Daniel Defoe.
Robinson Crusoe [or Robinson Crusoe] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149661-)
One character in this works tells the story of the defeat of Finn, and one character’s beheading of Aeschere [“Ash-hair”] leads to their death at the hands of the son of Ecgtheow [“EDGE-thow”]. This poem’s title character tells of his victory in a swimming race against (*) Breca and is aided by Wiglaf in a fatal fight against a dragon. The protagonist of this poem rips off the arm of a monster, which is displayed in King Hrothgar’s Heorot hall. For 10 points, name this Old English epic poem in which the title hero slays Grendel.
Beowulf &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149684-)
This character learns from Lord Munodi about the disastrous effects of the Academy of Projectors, and later discovers that Alexander the Great died of alcoholism. This character is convicted of treason for urinating on a fire in a royal palace. He helps settle a conflict about(*) eggs between the Little and Big Endians before fleeing to Blefescu. This character returns home after spending time with the horse-like Houyhnhnms [“HWIN-ums”]. For 10 points, name this character who encounters tiny people in Lilliput and giants in Brobdingnag in a novel by Jonathan Swift.
Dr. Lemuel Gulliver [or Lemuel Gulliver; or Gulliver’s Travels] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149702-)
This author wrote “My verse your virtues rare shall eternize, / And in the heavens write your glorious name” in his sonnet collection, dedicated to his wife Elizabeth Boyle. This poet used the refrain “Sweet Thames run softly until I end my song” in his poem “Prothalamion.” This author emulated Virgil’s Eclogues [“ec-lo-gues”] in his poem The Shepheardes (*) Calendar. The character Gloriana represents Elizabeth I in this poet’s most famous work, in which Una marries the Redcrosse Knight. For 10 points, name this author of The Faerie Queene.
Edmund Spenser &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149707-)
A gnome in this work visits a location ruled by a queen, who has handmaids named Ill-Nature and Affection. In this poem, a bag that contains “sighs” and “sobs” and a vial containing “melting griefs” and “flowing tears” are found in the Cave of Spleen. This poem begins by observing “what mighty contests rise from (*) trivial things.” During a game of ombre, sylphs led by Ariel fail to prevent the Baron from performing the title action. For 10 points, name this mock epic about Belinda’s hair, written by Alexander Pope.
The Rape of the Lock &lt;William Groger&gt;/&lt;ed. ME&gt;
3

149729-)
One of these events takes place at Apartment 50 on Walpurgis Night where a character is lured by the offer of becoming a witch. A newly crowned character arrives at another one of these events and shakes the (*) Red Queen before placing the Red King into checkmate and waking up. A Katherine Mansfield story is titled (**) “A Garden” variety of this event that is overshadowed by the death of the Sheridans’ working-class neighbor. For 10 points, name this title event of Harold Pinter’s story about a birthday celebration for Stanley.
Party [accept Birthday Party; accept Ball before (**)]
3

149739-)
A poem by this author addresses his son Hartley by saying “Dear Babe, that sleepest cradled by my side” and hopes that “all seasons shall be sweet to thee,” including during the “secret ministry of frost.” In another of this author’s poems, “the lovely lady” walks into the (*) woods at midnight to meet a woman who claims she had been carried away by five warriors. The completion of this author’s fifty-four line poem was interrupted by a person from Porlock and discusses Xanadu. For 10 points, name the author who penned the lines, “Water, water everywhere!” in his famous poem, “The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.”
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
3

149764-)
In this title site of an unfinished novel, a supposed land surveyor investigates a mysterious bureaucracy working in it. At the end of a different novel, an army officer returns to one of these locations, which he first visited with an alcoholic obsessed with his (*) teddy bear, Aloysius. A character is determined to marry Isabella, his deceased son’s wife, to prevent this site from leaving the family’s possession in the first Gothic novel by Horace Walpole. For 10 points, name this architectural structure which has served as the home of characters such as Count Dracula, King Arthur, and the White Witch.
Castles
3

149775-)
A knight in this poem has a “helmet and the helmet-feather / [that] burn’d like one burning flame together” as he rides past a “silent isle.” In this poem, after seeing a funeral from the “many-tower’d” city and “two young lovers lately wed,” the title character exclaims (*) “I am half sick of shadows.” After hearing the knight sing “Tirra lirra,” the title character of this poem breaks from her loom and exclaims “The curse is come upon me” because she has looked toward Camelot. For 10 points, name this Alfred Tennyson poem about the woman from Arthurian legend who dies while drifting down the river.
“The Lady of Shalott”
3

149794-)
Phaeton misleads the protagonist of this novel after kissing a woman he claimed to be his sister. Miss Lavish publishes a book that includes a scene with a romanticized version of the female protagonist’s kiss with a man in a field of (*) violets in this novel. That woman’s fiancée, a “superior” Londoner, shows true remorse for his pompousness after the protagonist leaves him for a man who rescued her after witnessing a murder in Italy. That man, George Emerson, marries Lucy Honeychurch in, for 10 points, what E.M. Forster novel about the title accommodation overlooking the Arno?
A Room with a View
3

149810-)
In a story by this author, a cellist falls in love with his older American tutor, only to find that rather than being a virtuoso, she can’t even play the cello. This man wrote a book in which Masuji Ono comes to terms with his role in making propaganda for Imperial Japan, and he wrote both the collection Nocturnes and the book (*) An Artist of the Floating World. This author wrote a novel in which the narrator takes his employer’s car on a “motoring trip” to see Mrs. Benn, and one in which Kathy, Tommy, and Ruth are revealed as clones created for organ donation. For 10 points, name this British author of The Remains of the Day and Never Let Me Go.
Kazuo Ishiguro &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

149834-)
A man who formerly held this title leaves a will requesting “that no man remember me.” The minor character Mrs. Cuxsom encourages the “skimmity-ride” that kills Lucretta, the love interest of two men with this title. The Scottish merchant Donald Farfrae obtains this title, and (*) Susan leaves a letter informing a man with this position that Elizabeth-Jane is not his daughter, but the sailor Richard Newsome’s. A man who later obtains this position opens the book by getting extremely drunk and selling his wife and child for five guineas. For 10 points, give this position held by Michael Henchard that titles a Thomas Hardy novel.
Mayor of Casterbridge (accept The Mayor of Casterbridge if people can somehow pronounce italics; prompt on just mayor) &lt;Horton&gt;
4

149854-)
Following the climax of this work, the narrator is stopped by the “The Man on Putney Hill” who insists there isn’t enough food for both of them in his land. The narrator of this book attacks the curate after he gives away their position with loud screaming. The use of mass weapons called “Black Smoke” and (*) “Heat-Ray” follow the landing of an apparent meteor in this work that signals the arrival of tripodal ships. The central antagonists of this book are defeated after it’s revealed their immune system isn’t prepared for terrestrial bacteria. For 10 points, name this H.G. Wells book describing a Martian invasion of London.
The War of the Worlds   &lt;Horton&gt;
4

149882-)
Description acceptable. One member of this group tells the others, “I know you what you are,” and warns that “Time shall unfold what plighted cunning hides.” One man tells a member of this group that “Nothing will come from nothing,” and that man raves wildly in a (*) storm after being incensed by members of this group. Two members of this group are married to the Duke of Cornwall and of Albany, and after the youngest of this group refuses to say how much she loves her father, the other two begin a civil war. This group consists of Goneril, Regan, and Cordelia. For 10 points, name this trio of children to the title royal in a Shakespeare play.
the daughters of King Lear (accept children in place of “daughters”; accept, collectively, Cordelia, Regan, and Goneril until their names are read; anti-prompt [ask for less specific] on any individual of the sister’s names; prompt on anything generally describing “characters in King Lear”) &lt;Kuang&gt;
4

149903-)
A poem in this book describes “micturations” and rending “thee in the gobberwarts,” and it opens with the protagonist attempting to prevent his house from being destroyed. Digressions in this book describe a character who becomes obsessed with finding lost ballpoint pens and one who thinks (*) “Oh no, not again.” President Zaphod travels with Ford Prefect and this book’s protagonist to “Magrathea” using the Improbability Drive, and the title entity of this book urges Arthur Dent “Don’t Panic.” For 10 points, name this work of comic science-fiction by Douglas Adams suggesting the “answer to life, the universe, and everything” is the number 42.
The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy &lt;Horton&gt;
4

149921-)
One character in this novel asserts that people that want “what is perfectly good” are “widening the skirts of light and making the struggle with darkness narrower.” A character in this book first meets her lover in an art gallery in Rome, and a doctor in it is accused of conspiring with Nicholas Bulstrode and clashes with his wife over her extravagant lifestyle. A man writing the (*) “Key to All Mythologies” dies in this novel that includes the couple Rosamond Vincy and Tertius Lydgate, and it ends with Will Ladislaw marrying Dorothea Brooke. For 10 points, name this novel about the title town, a “study of provincial life” by George Eliot.
Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life &lt;Yue&gt;
4

149966-)
One poem by this author describes Oxford with the lines “And that sweet city with her dreaming spires / She needs not June for beauty's heightening” and commemorates the speaker’s friend Arthur Hugh Clough. This man wrote a poem based on a Joseph Glanvill story, and he wrote the poems “Thyrsis” and (*) “The Scholar Gipsy.” This author’s most famous poem describes the speaker hearing the same “eternal node of sadness” that “Sophocles long ago [heard on] the Aegean” while looking over the title location, where “ignorant armies” clash and the “sea is calm tonight.” For 10 points, name this author of “Dover Beach.”
Matthew Arnold &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

149973-)
A Douglas Hofstadter essay noted the complications in translating this poem, and it opens at “four o’clock in the afternoon” according to one explanation. It’s been hypothesized this poem was inspired by the legend of the Lambton Worm. The poem The Hunting of the Snark was based on this poem and a beast with (*) “eyes of flame” is mentioned in this poem along with the “jubjub bird.” Humpty Dumpty explains the meanings of words like “frumious” and “outgrabe” that appear in this poem, which is told to Alice in Through the Looking Glass. For 10 points, name this poem by Lewis Carroll in which a man uses a “vorpal sword” to slay the title beast.
“Jabberwocky” (do not accept or prompt on “THE Jabberwocky”) &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150006-)
This poem was first published in Botteghe Oscure alongside the author’s other poem “Lament,” which the author remarked formed “a contrast” with it. This poem was published in the author’s collection In Country Sleep, and Other Poems, and it variously describes “wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight,” (*) old men whose words “had forked no lightning,” and “grave men” near death. This villanelle was potentially addressed to the author’s dying father, and it urges the addressee to “burn and rave at close of day” and to “rage, rage against the dying of the light.” For 10 points, name this most famous poem by Dylan Thomas.
“Do not go gentle into that good night” &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150021-)
An epitaph in the end of this work is frequently debated as to the exact meaning of the seemingly superficial description “eager for fame.” The only character to not abandon the protagonist during a battle in the barrow Earnanæs [“EARN-uh-ness”] in this work is the young Wiglaf. In the third major (*) battle of this work, the protagonist is killed by a dragon, but had earlier managed to rip off a foe’s arm and kill that foe’s mother with the sword Hrunting. The title character of this work defends the banquet hall Heorot from the monstrous Grendel. For 10 points, name this Old English epic about a warrior-hero.
Beowulf &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150034-)
In this author’s latest play, Spike prepares Hilary for an interview at the Krohl Institute for Brain Science by asking questions on morality and consciousness. This author of The Hard Problem wrote a play in which Albert wears a skirt for a performance of The Rape of the Sabine Women given by the (*) Tragedians, who later hide “impossibly” on a ship with the title characters fleeing Denmark. This author’s most famous play opens with the title characters flipping a coin heads ninety-two times in a row and centers on two minor characters from Hamlet. For 10 points, name this Czech-British playwright, the author of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead.
(Sir) Tom Stoppard (or Tomáš Straussler) &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150036-)
1 Thessalonians 3:12 wishes that this quality will increase for “each other and everyone else.” C. S. Lewis wrote a book about the four types of this quality, and “anyone who does not know [this quality] does not know God” according to 1 John 4. Paul compares someone without this attribute to a (*) “noisy gong” or a “clanging cymbal”, and that along with “faith” and “hope,” this attribute will remain. The most common translation of 1 Corinthians 13 states that this attribute is “patient” and is “kind,” leading to the passage’s frequent use in wedding ceremonies. For 10 points, name this “unconditional” attribute of God.
love (accept agape, eros, or philia; accept word forms of love) &lt;Suh&gt;
4

150058-)
One poem by this man describes a bleak landscape where the “sedge has withered from the lake,” and describes a figure who is lulled into an “Elfin grot” by a figure who’s also seduced “pale kings and princes too.” The speaker asks (*) “what can ail thee, knight-at-arms?” to open this man’s poem “La Belle Dame Sans Merci.” In one of this man’s poems, the speaker contemplates a “foster-child of silence and slow time,” viewing the painted figures on its “Attic shape” and arguing that “beauty is truth, truth beauty.” For 10 points, name this Romantic poet, the author of several odes such as “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
John Keats &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150073-)
The narrator of this work becomes obsessed with a piece of coral embedded in glass during a trip to an antiques store. The narrator of this book reads about “Oligarchical Collectivism” and the creation of the “three great super-states” in a book procured from a coworker who initiated him into the secret (*) “Brotherhood.” O’Brien turns on the narrator in this book and tortures him with rats in “Room 101,” causing him to renounce his lover Julia In the final scene in this work the narrator realizes he finally “loves Big Brother.” For 10 points, name this George Orwell novel about Winston Smith’s rebellion in dystopian England.
1984 &lt;Horton&gt; Bonuses
4

150079-)
The protagonist of one novel by this author is stolen from his family and raised by Gypsies before crossing Africa and living as a pirate in the Arabian Sea; that novel by this man is Captain Singleton. In one of his novels, the protagonist’s mother escapes execution by “pleading her belly,” and the protagonist marries her half-brother while living as a (*) conwoman in colonial America. In the most famous novel by this author of Moll Flanders, a man stranded on a desert island meets a companion that he christens Friday. For 10 points, name this founder of the English novel and author of Robinson Crusoe.
Daniel Defoe &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150098-)
A discussion about how jaguars have “the fear of pain and the fear of death” takes place as Rainsford travels to one of these locales. General Zaroff discusses former experiences hunting while in one of these geographic areas in a Richard Connell story set in one of them. (*) “Beast-People” created by a scientist through vivisection take control of one of these locales at the end of a book titled for one of them. General Jim Hawkins meets Long John Silver while sailing to one of these locations to find Captain Flint’s treasure. For 10 points, give these geological locales, which include one of “Dr. Moreau” in a book by H.G. Wells and one of “Treasure” in a book by Robert Louis Stevenson.
islands (accept isles; accept specific examples; prompt on jungle and synonyms by saying “a jungle where?”) &lt;Horton&gt;
4

150100-)
This man wrote a novel ending with a man sealing his journal to hide details he’s observed while a passenger on a converted man-of-war, as well as one ending with the reveal that the title character didn’t actually survive the opening shipwreck. The most famous novel by this author of Rites of Passage and Pincher Martin ends with a naval officer arriving amidst what he believes are some (*) children’s “fun and games.” Symbols from that book by this man include a conch shell, a pig’s head on a stick, and Piggy’s broken glasses. For 10 points, name this British author who described a group of schoolboys disastrously interacting on an island in The Lord of the Flies.
(Sir) William Golding &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

150101-)
Water’s stopping power is used to explain why Britain never conquered Continental Europe in a book about the “Tragedy” of this thing by John Mearsheimer. This is the first word in the title of a work that considers “dying metaphors” and “meaningless words,” as well as in the title of one arguing the state has a monopoly on (*) physical violence. This work appears “as a Vocation” in the title of a Max Weber essay, and it’s paired with “the English language” in a George Orwell essay. A work with this title describes the operations of the Greek city-state, or polis, and was written by Aristotle. For 10 points, give this term for the study of power and governance.
politics (accept The Tragedy of Great Power Politics, “Politics and the English Language,” “Politics as a Vocation,” or just Politics) &lt;Jin&gt;
4

150118-)
This character ignores a student pleading through a keyhole for her to go to dinner with him while she is staying at the Elephant Hotel in Pumpernickel. The illustration at the beginning of Chapter 4 depicts this woman angling for a fish, in reference to how she literally entraps a man by winding silk yarn around his arms while knitting a green purse. The final illustration in the novel depicts her at a charity booth, referencing the novel Pamela with its caption, (*) “Virtue Rewarded.” This character squeezes her host’s hand after being startled by a spicy goat curry, thinking chilis are cold. Miss Jemima hands this character a copy of Johnson’s Dictionary as a parting gift, which she promptly throws out the window of a stagecoach. This character is given precious jewelry by Lord Steyne, which is torn off in a climactic scene by her husband Rawdon Crawley. For 10 points, name this friend of Amelia Sedley, an anti-heroine who climbs the social ladder in William Makepeace Thackeray’s Vanity Fair.
Becky Sharp [accept either underlined portion; or Rebecca Sharp] &lt;RK, Long Fiction&gt;
8

150134-)
This character “solicit[s] heaven” to “move the gods to send down Justice for to wreak our wrongs” by ordering people to shoot arrows at the stars. This character exclaims “Out on thee, murderer! thou kill’st my heart” after his brother kills a fly, but his brother convinces him that it was okay because it was a “black ill-favor’d fly.” He dispatches his grandson to send a gift of weapons to a pair of brothers along with a scroll with a quotation from Horace saying that upright men have no need for weapons. This man vows “A (*) coffin I will rear” before slitting the throats of two characters disguised as the spirits of Rape and Murder. This man implores his son to “lend me thy hand, and I will give thee mine” after Aaron convinces him to let him cut off his hand. This man kills his daughter Lavinia before serving the heads of Chiron and Demetrius to their mother Tamora, the Queen of the Goths, in a pie. For 10 points, name this Roman general, the title character of a William Shakespeare tragedy.
Titus Andronicus [prompt on Andronicus] &lt;JN, Drama&gt;
8

150166-)
This author discusses how Keats achieved Goethe’s (“GUR-tuh’s”) concept of Architectonicè (“ar-kee-TEK-toh-nee-CHAY”) yet failed by imitating Shakespeare in an preface challenging the claim that poets “must leave the exhausted past” to achieve success. In his introduction to T. H. Ward’s The English Poets, this critic originated the “touchstone method” of judging poetry based on small excerpts and emphasized the value of “high seriousness” that Chaucer and Burns lacked. In the aforementioned “The Study of Poetry,” this author popularized his belief that poetry is (*) “criticism of life.” This author argued that the “scientific passion” and the “moral and social passion for doing good” combine to form a concept he defined as “a study of perfection.” In a book that labels the efficient and practical nature of Rome “Hebraism,” in contrast with Greek “Hellenism,” this author popularized Jonathan Swift’s phrase “sweetness and light.” That book by this author divides the social classes into Barbarians and Philistines. For 10 points, name this British critic who wrote Culture and Anarchy, better known for poems like “The Scholar-Gipsy.”
Matthew Arnold (The first essay is Arnold’s preface to his 1853 Poems.) &lt;RK, Misc Literature&gt;
8

150186-)
An essay opposing these works, which distinguishes between “modern” and “modernist” writers, was written by Robert Graves and Laura Riding, and is called “A Pamphlet Against” these works. In a scene from The Merry Wives of Windsor, Abraham Slender looks for a book of riddles and one of these works. W. R. Paton translated one of these works discovered at the Palatine Library, which included a similar work by Maximus Planudes (“plah-NOO-daze”). The name for these works references the title of one of them by (*) Meleager of Gadara. One of these works published in 1557 by Richard Tottel helped popularize them in Britain. Frank Kermode (“KUR-mode”), Lionel Trilling, and Harold Bloom collaborated on one of these works published by Oxford that was abandoned due to the success of one edited by M. H. Abrams and Stephen Greenblatt, whose 2012 ninth edition includes passages from global writers like Hanif Kureishi and Zadie Smith. For 10 points, identify these collections of writings by different authors, one of which is named for W. W. Norton.
anthology [or anthologies; accept miscellanies] (The third sentence refers to the Greek Anthology.) &lt;RK, Misc Literature&gt;
8

150190-)
A renowned botanist and physiologist made a literary splash with a 1732 poem about this geographical feature which was sharply criticized in Gottfried Lessing’s Laokoon (“lay-AH-koh-on”). A poem calls this feature “the ground where early Love his Psyche’s zone unbound” and says this feature has “reared a throne.” A poem about this geographical feature suggests that “power dwells apart in its tranquility” and ends on a rhetorical question suggesting “silence and solitude” are “vacancy.” A closet drama set here opens in “a (*) Gothic Gallery” with its protagonist musing “The Tree of Knowledge is not that of Life” before summoning seven spirits. An ode pondering “the everlasting universe of things” was inspired by this region, which Wordsworth crosses in Book VI of his Prelude. For 10 points, name this region often crossed by Romantic poets on the Grand Tour, the setting of Byron’s Manfred and Percy Shelley’s “Mont Blanc.”
the Alps [accept Mont Blanc or the Valley of Chamonix; accept the Swiss Alps or the Graian Alps] (The second sentence comes from “Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage.”) &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
8

150209-)
In a scene accompanied by frenzied dancing, this play’s chorus compares a character to a spider who “creeps” and “clutches his prey,” a “snake that is human” who “shudders and crawls to my side,” and an “adder that biteth the foot.” This play is part of a tetralogy whose other parts are mostly lost, though a speech by Aphrodite praising the marriage between the earth and the sky survives. The many mentions of hands in this play include the final line, in which the semi-chorus says “the hands of thy saving are sure” to (*) Zeus, who is the addressee of this play’s opening speech. A group of women in this play offer to use their girdles to adorn statues; when asked to identify their lineage, those women recount the story of Io (“EYE-oh”). A herald in this play attempts to drag the title characters to a ship, but is rebuffed by Pelasgus, who has offered shelter to them. At this play’s beginning, the title characters travel to Argos to flee from marriage with the fifty sons of Aegyptus (“ih-JIP-tus”). For 10 points, name this Aeschylus play in which the daughters of Danaus (“DAN-ay-us”) seek assistance.
The Suppliants [or The Suppliant Maidens; or The Suppliant Women; or Hiketides] &lt;JN, Drama&gt;
8

150211-)
At the beginning of a story by this author, a drunk man instantly sobers up upon hearing that Doctor MacFarlane has arrived. Fettes (“FEH-tis”) discovers Mr. K—— is being supplied fresh bodies for dissection in that story by this author inspired by the Burke and Hare murders. Colonel Geraldine’s employer duels the President at the end of a series of stories by this author about an organization that employs a man offering cream tarts to Prince Florizel, included in his (*) New Arabian Nights. This author’s time in Samoa inspired a story about a man who marries Kokua with the help of a devilish object that must be sold for less than it was bought for. This author of “The Body Snatcher” and “The Suicide Club” wrote a story about the Hawaiian Keawe (“kay-AH-vay”) called “The Bottle-Imp.” In a novella, this author created the lawyer Gabriel John Utterson, who investigates the death of his client Danvers Carew. For 10 points, name this author who described a transforming scientist in The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde.
Robert Louis Stevenson &lt;RK, Short Fiction&gt;
8

150232-)
A poem by this author concludes that “on well-run farms pests have to be kept down” and describes the speaker’s memory of seeing a man drown kittens in a bucket. The speaker of one of this author’s poems calls himself “a nuisance, tripping, falling,” since he always got in his father’s way. A poem by this author laments that “to stare, big-eyed Narcissus, into some spring is beneath all adult dignity” and describes the speaker’s childhood obsession with (*) wells. This author of “The Early Purges,” “Follower,” and “Personal Helicon” wrote a poem whose title objects “like thickened wine” grow a “rat-grey fungus,” making “their sweet flesh… turn sour.” A poem by this author describes how “whispers informed strangers I was the eldest” after “the bumper knocked him clear,” referencing the death of his brother. That poem ends by describing “a four-foot box, a foot for every year.” For 10 points, name this poet who included “Blackberry-Picking” and “Mid-Term Break” in his collection Death of a Naturalist.
Seamus Heaney (“SHAY-mus HEE-nee”) [or Seamus Justin Heaney] &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
8

150249-)
In a 2013 paper, George Walkden argued that the beginning of this work has been consistently misinterpreted since the 1830s. An essay on this work mocks a critic for describing it as “only small beer,” arguing that “if beer at all, it is a drink dark and bitter.” Friedrich Panzer argued that this work was written as a reworking of a motif called the Bear’s Son Tale. W. P. Ker is best known for championing this work’s (*) style over its story, an approach criticized in an essay which compares this poem to a tower pushed over by people trying to study the rock it was constructed with. The authoritative edition of this work was produced by Frederick Klaeber, who paired it with a fragment recounting the Fight at Finnsburg. This poem opens with the funeral of Scyld Scefing (“shild SHAY-fing”), the great-grandfather of a king who married Wealhtheow (“WALL-thay-oh”) and built Heorot (“HAIR-it”). For 10 points, name this subject of J. R. R. Tolkien’s “The Monsters and the Critics,” an Old English epic whose title character kills Grendel.
Beowulf &lt;JK, Poetry&gt;
8

150273-)
This author’s wife published the cookbook What Shall We Have for Dinner? Satisfactorily Answered by Numerous Bills of Fare for Two to Eighteen Persons under the pseudonym Lady Maria Clutterbuck, a name used during this author’s annual Twelfth Night parties. He entertained Hans Christian Andersen at the Falstaff-inspired country house Gads Hill Place. He made significant edits to another author’s play The Frozen Deep, whose performances at Tavistock House introduced him to (*) Ellen Ternan. This author’s correspondence with Elizabeth Gaskell provided the title for her North and South, which was serialized in this author’s journal Household Words, later replaced by All the Year Round. He first gained fame for an anthology of pseudonymous stories titled Sketches by Boz. For 10 points, name this English author who left The Mystery of Edwin Drood unfinished at his death and captivated readers with serializations of novels like The Pickwick Papers and Hard Times.
Charles Dickens [or Charles John Huffam Dickens] &lt;RK, Misc Literature&gt;
8

150293-)
A character in this play asks a woman “Have you ever been to the Sahara Desert?” after comparing his love for her to a whirlwind. That character in this play claims that the “prince of emptiness, the prince of absence, the prince of desolation” reigns in the “state of catatonia” in a scene that ends with him grasping another character’s arm. A man in this play argues that the absence of his children makes Wessex Grove “not a home.” A character in this play recalls riding a (*) speedboat to read Yeats at Torcello alone, and frequently challenges another man to squash. At this play’s beginning, a character admits that she is having an affair with the never-seen writer Roger Casey during a conversation in a pub in 1977. The handwriting on a letter sent to Venice prompts a publisher to suspect his wife’s infidelity in this play, which ends with a scene at a party where a drunken Jerry declares his love for Robert’s wife Emma. For 10 points, name this Harold Pinter play whose scenes are mostly in reverse chronological order.
Betrayal &lt;JN, Drama&gt;
8

150304-)
Richard Fletcher took a “horizontal” approach to analyzing this poem in a 1989 book about its “Quest.” This poem’s conventional division into three parts, the last of which is named after a “humiliation,” was established by a scholar who provided this poem’s modern title and went on a tour of its settings for his honeymoon. Robert Southey’s translation of this poem actually combines it with two separate chronicles. This poem’s protagonist disrespects a defeated opponent by yanking his beard, in reference to his oath to not trim his own long beard. This poem features a sword whose name means (*) “firebrand” which frightens unworthy opponents if wielded by a worthy fighter. Two noblemen marry the daughters of this poem’s protagonist, but beat them up and leave them tied to trees in a forest after being shamed for being afraid of a lion. This poem opens with its protagonist’s exile from Vivar by King Alfonso VI, and it inspired a later Pierre Corneille (“cor-NAY”) play. For 10 points, name this medieval Spanish epic set during the Reconquista about a warrior who slays many Moors.
The Poem of the Cid [or The Lay of El Cid or Cantar de Mio Cid or The Poem of El Cid or El Poema de Mio Cid or The Song of My Cid; do NOT accept or prompt on “Le Cid”] (The scholar is Ramón Menéndez Pidal.) &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
8

150322-)
When a suitor requests a taste of the “nectar of [this character’s] lips,” she responds that there are no French wines around. This character asks her maid if her dress makes her look like Cherry from The Beaux’ (“boze”) Stratagem. This woman is concerned by a man’s timidity in an “interview” during which she is forced to complete his sentences for him, but is later impressed when he describes being nicknamed “Rattle” at the Ladies’ Club. As her father and Sir (*) Charles watch from behind a screen, this character’s suitor remarks on her “refined simplicity” and confirms their love. This character is referred to in the title of a play that includes a subplot about a love triangle between Hastings, Constance Neville, and this character’s step-brother, who calls her a “talkative maypole” while at the Three Pigeons Inn. After Marlow sees this character in plain clothes, she pretends to be a barmaid to judge his personality. For 10 points, name this character who “stoops to conquer” in an Oliver Goldsmith play.
Kate Hardcastle [accept either underlined portion] &lt;RK, Drama&gt;
8

150327-)
A story by this author is about the two daughters of a woman who is contemptuously called “She-who-was-Cynthia” by her imperious mother, who is known only as the Mater. At a crucial moment in one of this author’s stories, the protagonist feels an “ice of fear” in her womb. A story by this author ends with the bodies of two men, one of whom has bruises all over his legs, lying together in a mortuary. This author, who adapted one of his short stories into the play (*) The Widowing of Mrs. Holroyd, wrote a story in which an orderly kills the captain who has been abusing him. In a story by this author, a woman who “had no luck” lives in a house haunted by the phrase “There must be more money!” In a story by this author, Elizabeth thinks that her husband is out drinking at a pub, but realizes “the horror of the distance between them” when his body is brought into the parlor after his death in a mining accident. For 10 points, name this author of “The Virgin and the Gipsy,” “The Prussian Officer,” “The Rocking-Horse Winner,” and “Odour of Chrysanthemums.”
D. H. Lawrence [or David Herbert Lawrence] &lt;JN, Short Fiction&gt;
8

150348-)
A character in this play notes that a water spaniel that was afraid of water would deserve hanging, and claims that “as a spaniel is to water, so is a man to his own self.” In a scene in this play, a letter descends from above and foretells the fates of several characters. This play’s first act ends with a character exclaiming “You enjoyed that! You enjoyed it!” after another character pulls his hand into a candle flame. This play’s central character gifts a man a (*) silver cup that he had received as a bribe, and argues that he would “give the Devil benefit of law” to Roper. Late in this play, the protagonist engages in a debate on the meaning of silence and chastises Richard Rich for selling his soul. This play opens with an introduction by the Common Man, and includes a trial that ends with a man denying that he opposes the Act of Supremacy. For 10 points, name this Robert Bolt play about Thomas More.
A Man for All Seasons &lt;JN, Drama&gt;
8

150381-)
A poem in this genre is set in a time “when civil dudgeon first grew high, and men fell out they knew not why.” In that poem, a widow says that she will free the protagonist from the stocks if he promises to whip himself afterwards, but he reneges on the promise. A poem in this genre lends its name to a verse form using iambic tetrameter couplets with liberal use of feminine rhymes. In another poem in this genre, a bag of tears from the underworld is dumped on the head of the protagonist after an incident that takes place after a game of (*) ombre (“OM-bur”). That poem begins by noting “what dire Offence from am’rous Causes springs, what mighty Contests rise from trivial Things.” A real-life incident in which Lord Petre (“Peter”) ruined the engagement of Arabella Fermor inspired a poem in this genre in which a Baron cuts off a piece of Belinda’s hair. For 10 points, Samuel Butler’s Hudibras (“HEW-dib-russ”) and Alexander Pope’s The Rape of the Lock are examples of poems in what genre that parodies tales of heroism?
mock-epics [or mock-heroic; prompt on parody or satire or burlesque; prompt on epic poems or heroic poems] &lt;WN, Misc Literature&gt;
8

150393-)
A poem from this movement expresses the urge to “tread again that ancient track” of its author’s “early days” when he “shined in [his] angel infancy,” and is called “The Retreat.” George Williamson’s description of this movement’s “strong lines” is discussed in the preface to a collection of its poetry compiled by Helen Gardner. A critic compared this movement’s poetry to the work of Jules Laforgue (“zhool lah-FORG”), quoting the opening lines of a Laforgue poem about “diaphanous (“die-AFF-uh-nus”) geraniums,” in a review of a Herbert Grierson anthology. The collection (*) Silex Scintillans was written by a poet from this movement. Samuel Johnson adapted a quote by Dryden to coin this movement’s name in a chapter of Lives of the Poets about Abraham Cowley. T. S. Eliot argued that this movement’s poets avoided “dissociation of sensibility.” Poems from this movement were often based on “conceits,” such as comparing lovers to the legs of a compass. For 10 points, name this loose seventeenth-century poetic movement of George Herbert and John Donne.
metaphysical poetry (The third sentence describes T. S. Eliot’s “The Metaphysical Poets.”) &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
8

150416-)
Robert Browning’s line “Saint Praxed’s ever was the Church for peace” provides the epigraph for a poem in this form, whose speaker asks to be buried in the Hills because he “could never stand the Plains.” A satirical poem in this form describes how “an ancient foe” is boarded by the crew of the sinking “Clampherdown.” A collection of these poems largely written in vernacular is dedicated to Tommy Atkins and opens with a poem about a soldier who’s (*) “hangin’… in the mornin’!” A poem in this form, which claims a certain action won’t occur “Till Earth and Sky stand presently at God’s great Judgment Seat,” describes the eventual friendship between the son of an English Colonel and the Afghan horse-thief Kamal. The collection containing “Mandalay” and “Gunga Din” is titled “Barrack-Room [these works].” For 10 points, name this form Rudyard Kipling used for a poem that opens “East is East, and West is West, and never the twain shall meet.”
ballads [prompt on songs] &lt;RK, Poetry&gt;
8

150418-)
A chapter of one of this author’s novels describes its title character’s mind, which “pictured itself as a large hollow sphere, hermetically closed to the universe without.” In that novel by this author, a character who is often told that “all life is figure and ground” and who enjoys rocking in a chair while tied to it naked burns to death when someone accidentally turns on the gas to his room instead of flushing the toilet. The narrator of a novel by this author thinks that unknown people have taken over his (*) mouth and won’t let it go until he does his “pensum,” and hopes that by constantly babbling he’ll accidentally hit upon it. A story about a legless, armless, and speechless character named Mahood is told in a novel by this author which ends with the lines “You must go on. I can’t go on. I’ll go on.” For 10 points, name this author of Murphy, whose namesake trilogy includes Molloy, Malone Dies, and The Unnamable.
Samuel Beckett [or Samuel Barclay Beckett] &lt;WN, Long Fiction&gt; NOTE: Do not read this tossup if replacing a tossup in Packet 10.
8

150431-)
This author traced a tradition starting from troubadours and especially focusing on the Romance of the Rose in The Allegory of Love. This thinker contrasted storge [STORE-gay], philia [FEEL-ee-a], eros, and the “Godly” agape [UH-gah-PAY] in another book about love. The possibility that a certain figure could have been lying, insane, or God is the subject of this man’s namesake “trilemma.” He was led toward (*) Anglicanism by a Catholic fantasy writer with whom he formed the Inklings. The BBC invited this man to deliver a series of radio talks which became his most famous theological work. For 10 points, name this author of Mere Christianity and The Chronicles of Narnia.
C.S. Lewis [or Clive Staples Lewis]
3

150436-)
This author describes the smell of “The coming musk-rose, full of dewy wine” in one work and asks the titular object of another “What leaf-fring'd legend haunts about thy shape.” Percy Bysshe Shelley commemorated this man’s death in a poem that begins “I weep for Adonais” (*), and a work by this poet that describes a “Sylvan historian” and a “foster child of silence and slow time” proclaims “heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard are sweeter.” His most famous work tells the title creature “thou wast not born for death.” For 10 points, name this British poet best known for works such as Ode On a Grecian Urn and Ode to a Nightingale.
John Keats
3

150447-)
In one appearance, this character’s fixation on a piece of lead piping causes the narrator to think that this character has grown too old. One collection featuring this character plays on his first name with such titles as “The Capture of Cerberus”, in which this character goes to a nightclub with Countess Vera Rossakoff. This character is puzzled by a scarlet kimono in his most famous appearance, in which he aids Monsieur Bouc. While Captain (*) Hastings usually accompanies this character, Dr. Sheppard acts as an unreliable narrator in The Murder of Roger Ackroyd. Murder on the Orient Express features, for 10 points, what mustached Belgian detective created by Agatha Christie?
Hercule Poirot [accept either underlined answer]
3

150466-)
One poem by this man notes, “O dark dark dark. They all go into the dark”. This man proclaimed “old men ought to be explorers” and that “the end is my beginning” in a poetry collection which opens, “Time present and time past.” This author criticized Shakespeare in the essay Hamlet and His Problems and emphasized the importance of impersonal poetry in (*) Tradition and the Individual Talent. In a more famous poem, he asks, “Do I dare to eat a peach?” before concluding that “I shall wear white flannel trousers, and walk upon the beach.” Another of his works ends by repeating “shantih” and declares, “April is the cruelest month.” For 10 points, name this British poet who wrote The Wasteland and The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock.
T. S. Eliot [or Thomas Stearns Eliot]
3

150488-)
This poet reflected on “old iron, old bones, old rags” in his “The Circus Animals’ Desertion.” This poet asked “Did she put on his knowledge with his power / Before the indifferent beak could let her drop?” in a work that represents Zeus as “a feathered glory.” In order to “please a companion / Around the fire at the club,” one of this man’s narrators shares “polite, meaningless words” before lamenting (*) “a terrible beauty is born.” In addition to “Leda and the Swan”, this man wrote a poem that states “the falcon cannot hear the falconer” and tells of a “rough beast” that “slouches towards Bethlehem to be born.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Easter, 1916” and “The Second Coming”.
William Butler Yeats
3

150497-)
A father who believes he is at this place is told, “Ten masts at each make not the altitude / Which thou hast perpendicularly fell.” A girl identified with the name of this location is brought “a bottle of Nuit d’Amour” and is treated as “a sort of mournful cosmic last resort” in an Anthony Hecht poem. A man here reflects that the world “hath really neither joy, nor love, nor light” after hearing a “melancholy, long, withdrawing (*) roar.” This location reminds the speaker of Sophocles being sad by the Aegean in the most famous poem about it. Edgar brings Gloucester to the plains near this place, where he falls off what he thinks are its cliffs. A poem titled for this place reflects on the “Sea of Faith.” For 10 points, name this setting of Matthew Arnold’s best known poem.
Dover (Beach) [or anything about the cliffs of Dover; prompt on “beach”]
3

150515-)
A line from this poem titles a Robert Penn Warren novel surrounding the murder trial of Kentucky lawyer Jeremiah Beaumont. The speaker of this poem imagines walking by the river Humber before declaring that his love should grow “vaster than empires, and more slow”. This poem urges the addressee to roll (*) “our sweetness up into one ball”. This work’s narrator praises a woman’s beauty by saying that “A hundred years should go to praise” and “Two hundred to adore each breast”, but encourages her to stop being such a tease because he hears “Time's wingèd chariot hurrying near.” For 10 points, name this carpe diem poem addressed to the title lady by Andrew Marvell.
To His Coy Mistress
3

150532-)
The protagonist of this play explains that she she was turned out by her sixth stepmother before exclaiming "I'm a good girl, I am.” The mother of one character shouts “Men! Men! Men!” after her son acts rudely to another character. That other character has a signature cry of (*) “Ah-ah-ah-ow-ow-oo” and falls for Freddy Hill, who loves her creation of “a new small talk”. A chimney-sweep named Alfred in this play agrees to sell his daughter for 50 pounds, prompting a Sanskrit scholar to inquire, “Have you no morals, man?” Colonel Pickering and Henry Higgins endeavour to make a lady out of Eliza Doolittle in, for 10 points, what play by George Bernard Shaw?
Pygmalion
3

150560-)
In one poem by this author, the narrator expresses his desire to be shipped “somewheres east of Suez, where there aren’t No Ten Commandments”. That poem was inspired by a beautiful woman the author met in the title city. An Irish soldier who spies for the British is depicted in one of this author’s works that popularized the term (*) “The Great Game”. A poem by this author tells the reader to “send forth the best ye breed”. In his most famous work, a boy raised by wolves confronts the tiger Shere Khan. For 10 points, name this author of “Mandalay”, “The White Man’s Burden”, and The Jungle Book.
(Joseph) Rudyard Kipling
3

150569-)
This character travels through Chicago, Buffalo, and Ireland in pursuit of a German spy, Von Bork. In another work, this man learns the story of agent Birdy Edwards and how he brought the Vermissa Valley gang to justice. In another story, this man tracks down ex-KKK members (*) and accuses the crew of the Lone Star of murder. That story, the “Five Orange Pips,” can be found along with others in the book titled for the adventures of this man. Another story in that collection, “A Scandal in Bohemia,” sees this character meet a possible romantic interest, Irene Adler. For 10 points, name detective created by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle.
Sherlock Holmes [accept either underlined part]
3

150586-)
One play by this author features two lovers who can’t marry each other after Hermogenes and Leonidas lie to them about their royal heritage. A poem by this author focuses on the rebellion of David’s son, which ultimately ends with his death after catching his hair in a tree branch; that poem is Absalom and Achitophel. (*) Though not Shakespeare, this author wrote a play that details the last hours of the lives of Mark Antony and Cleopatra, All for Love. For 10 points, name this first poet laureate of England who wrote Marriage-a-la-mode and Mac Flecknoe and who was nicknamed “Glorious John” by Walter Scott.
John Dryden
3

150609-)
In a poem addressed to a member of this profession, Atticus and Sporus are ridiculed as the narrator yells “Shut, shut the door, good John!” to avoid being swamped by admirers. A character in this profession is inspired to write the poem “Bad Roads in Spring” after he is kidnapped by the Forest Brotherhood. A pair of glasses recovered from the Marabar Caves (*) is used to falsely accuse one of these people of raping Adela Quested. Another person with this occupation accidentally infects Hippolyte’s club foot and is frequently cuckolded by his dissatisfied wife in Madame Bovary. A friend of Gabriel Utterson who tramples a young girl also has this profession. For 10 points, name this job held by characters such as Yuri Zhivago and the alter ego of Mr. Hyde.
doctor [accept answers like surgeon or physician]
3

150622-)
In one part of this poem, the title character bites his arm and sucks out blood in order to make clear that an object is approaching. Another character dooms souls based on her own preferences and contrasts Death, who appropriately sends souls to Heaven or Hell. This poem ends with the title character saying “He prayeth best, who loveth best” (*) and vanishing to leave the wedding guest alone. Due to the fog, the title character of this poem accidently shoots an albatross and is forced to wear the dead bird on his neck as punishment. For 10 points, name this long narrative poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge about the cautionary tale of an old sailor.
The Rime of the Ancient Mariner
3

150630-)
In one of this author’s works, a character has an affair with Miss Inger before entering a failed relationship with the soldier Anton Skrebensky; that character later sees the “living fabric of Truth” in the titular object. In another work by this author, Gertrude’s first son dies in London, so she begins to romantically pursue her other son, (*) Paul Morel. Apart from The Rainbow, this author detailed an affair between the titular gamekeeper and Constance Reid, whose husband is partially paralyzed after his service in World War I. For 10 points, name this English author famous for explicit works such as Sons and Lovers and Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence
3

150652-)
Captain Cat watches the inhabitants of the Welsh town, Llareggub, in one work written by this man. Another work of his admits that it is dumb to tell the “crooked rose” and dumb to tell the “lover’s tomb.” This man wrote “Though they sink through the sea they shall rise again,” (*) in a poem that both ends and begins “And death shall have no dominion.” The lines “I was young and easy under the apple boughs” and “Time held me green and dying / Though I sang in my chains like the sea” appear in his “Fern Hill.” For 10 points, name this British poet who wrote, “Rage, Rage against the dying of the light,” in “Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night.”
Dylan Thomas
3

150667-)
A poem by this author ends with a “threnos” that ask those “true or fair” “For these dead birds sigh a prayer.” This author of “The Phoenix and the Turtle” dedicated a collection to Mr W.H. that opens “From fairest creatures we desire increase.” One of his poem’s subjects is “a star to every wandering bark”; that poem ends with a declaration that if he is wrong, “I never (*) writ, nor no man ever loved.” This author wrote a parody of a blazon that compares its subject’s hair to “black wires” and complains “Coral is far more red, than her lips’ red.” For 10 points, name this author of “My mistress’ eyes are nothing like the sun,” one hundred and fifty three other sonnets, and Hamlet.
William Shakespeare
3

150691-)
A group of characters in this novel confiscate a textbook on snowflakes for being obscene, though the protagonist is later assaulted by a group of old men in a library in retribution. The protagonist of this novel is beaten by Dim and Billyboy after they become cops and is often visited by (*) P.R. Deltoid. That protagonist attempts suicide after hearing a piece by Skadelig, and he realizes he was being manipulated by a group that includes F. Alexander. The protagonist of this work is disgusted by Beethoven’s Ninth Symphony after undergoing the Ludovico technique, A group of Droogs and their ultraviolent leader Alex appear in, for ten points, what novel by Anthony Burgess?
A Clockwork Orange
3

150711-)
To visit one of these places, a count disguises himself as the ghost of a nun who was buried alive there. In one of these places, a man's speech about "lusts of the flesh" is interrupted by the arrival of his three daughters, who wear "velvet, silk, and furs." A Belgian man who heads of one of these places, Constantin Héger (ay-ZHAY), partly inspired the title character of a posthumously published first novel. A tablet reading "Resurgam" marks the grave of a character who dies of (*) typhus at one of these places, another of which provides the setting of the novel Villette. The protagonist meets the saintly Helen Burns in one of these places, which is run by the cruel Mr. Brocklehurst. For 10 points, what sort of institution, such as Lowood in Jane Eyre, are often populated by girls in Charlotte Bronte novels?
all-girls boarding schools [or classrooms; or dormitories] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150717-)
A character of this profession has two women swear on their beards to point out that a knight who swore on his honor about the bad mustard on his pancakes wasn't lying. A character of this type sings "When that I was and a little tiny boy, / With hey, ho, the wind and the rain" a few scenes after disguising himself as Sir Topas to torment an imprisoned man. A character of this profession secures the hand of the goatherd Audrey after following (*) Duke Frederick into exile. With the Duke of Kent, a character of this type follows his master onto the heath during a thunderstorm and may have been double-cast with Cordelia. Characters of this type include Touchstone in As You Like It and Feste in Twelfth Night. For 10 points, King Lear is served by a member of what comic profession?
Shakespearean fools [or jesters; or clowns] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150742-)
This man wrote a poem whose 304 stanzas, inspired by William Davenant's Gondibert, are all decasyllabic quatrains ending in periods. His longest poem contains the first appearance of the phrase "blaze of glory." This author asserted "all human things are subject to decay, and, when Fate summons, monarchs must obey" at the beginning of a poetic attack on a man who "never deviates into sense," the "true-blue Protestant poet" (*) Thomas Shadwell. His allegories include a poem in which the Catholic and Anglican churches are represented by the title animals and a poem in which the Duke of Monmouth and the Earl of Shaftesbury become a rebellious Biblical duo. For 10 points, name this Restoration poet of "Annus Mirabilis," "The Hind and the Panther," "Mac Flecknoe," and "Absalom and Achitophel."
John Dryden &lt;Carson&gt;
5

150748-)
In a story by this author, John realizes that his sighting of his wife with two elderly twin sisters on a ferry had been a premonition of his death when he is stabbed with a throwing-knife by a dwarf in Venice. In a story by this author, news bulletins stop coming through on the radio while a family led by the veteran Nat Hocken barricades themselves in their cottage on the Cornwall coast. In a novel by this author of "Don't Look Now," the discovery of the title character's (*) sunken boat stops the protagonist from committing suicide at the urging of the sinister housekeeper Mrs. Danvers; that novel by this author ends with a fire destroying the estate of Manderley and is titled for the ex-wife of Maxim de Winter. For 10 points, name this British author of "The Birds" and Rebecca.
Daphne du Maurier &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150791-)
In this novel, Ned is embarrassed when a rival suitor mocks his gift of the sentimental magazine Keepsake. In this novel's first chapter, the main female character takes an emerald ring and bracelet from her deceased mother's jewelry collection, allowing her sister Celia to keep the rest. A character in this novel allows the death of his blackmailer, who knows that he made his fortune by marrying into a family that pawned stolen goods; that banker is Mr. (*) Bulstrode. Rosamond Vincy ruins her husband, the doctor Tertius Lydgate, in this novel, whose protagonist foregoes the inheritance of her first husband, the self-centered scholar Casaubon, in order to marry Will Ladislaw. For 10 points, name this lengthy "study of provincial life" by George Eliot.
Middlemarch, A Study of Provincial Life &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150814-)
The italicized ending of a poem about one of these places describes a youth who "gain'd from Heav'n 'twas all he wish'd a friend." An author who, like Thomas Parnell and Edward Young, belonged to a school named for this sort of place, imagined a "kindred spirit" asking a "hoary-headed swain" about a man who used to sit under a "nodding beech" in one of them. That poem imagines a "village-Hampden," a (*) "mute inglorious Milton," and "some Cromwell guiltless of his country's blood" in one of these places. Residents of a place of this type lived "Far from the madding crowd's ignoble strife" in a poem set in one that opens "The curfew tolls the knell of parting day." For 10 points, Thomas Gray authored an "Elegy Written in a Country" place of what sort?
a churchyard [or a graveyard; or obvious equivalents of a cemetery; prompt on a church's grounds] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150843-)
Herbie Hancock played the piano on a "rhapsody" named after this character, which appears on an album named for him by Chick Corea. Mafia hitman Albert Anastasia was nicknamed for both the Lord High Executioner and for this character, who was likely inspired by the furniture dealer Theophilus Carter. Erethism is a symptom of a disease named for this character that frequently afflicted people working in (*) Danbury, Connecticut. He says "up above the world you fly, / Like a tea tray in the sky" while reciting "Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Bat" and poses the riddle "why is a raven like a writing desk?" Mercury poisoning likely caused the phenomenon referenced by this character's name. For 10 points, name this character who constantly switches places at a tea party in Alice in Wonderland.
The Mad Hatter [or The Hatter] &lt;Jose&gt;
5

150845-)
A theatrical director named Felix stars in Margaret Atwood's 2016 adaptation of this play, Hag-Seed. A speech in this play that asserts "all things in common nature should produce / without sweat or endeavor" was mostly ripped off from Montaigne's essay "Of Cannibals". A character in this play vows to "break my staff" and "drown my book" before dismissing a wedding masque, noting "the great globe itself… shall dissolve" because (*) "we are such stuff / as dreams are made on". Its ending features the resignation of the usurping Duke of Milan and the revelation of Ferdinand and his new wife, who is surprised to see a "brave new world / that has such people in 't!" For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play featuring Miranda, Ariel, and Prospero, who causes a shipwreck by summoning the title storm.
The Tempest &lt;Carson&gt;
5

150847-)
A "poor chap" who "always loved larking" suffers this fate in a Stevie Smith poem that notes "I was much too far out all my life". During a trip to Italy, Gwendolen Harleth's hesitation allows this fate to befall Henleigh Grandcourt in Daniel Deronda. Diggory Venn arrives in time to prevent Clym Yeobright from suffering this fate at the end of The Return of the Native, though Damon Wildeve and Eustacia Vye both fall victim to it. Shortly after they reconcile at the end of The (*) Mill on the Floss, both Tom and Maggie Tulliver suffer this fate. Shortly after listing the symbolic meanings of various types of flowers, a Shakespearean character suffers this fate after falling out of a willow tree. For 10 points, identify the method of death experienced by Ophelia from Hamlet.
drowning [prompt on suicide or death] &lt;Carson&gt;
5

150885-)
In a story by this author, two characters plan to surprise the "whole region" by hunting wildfowl together and dining in each other's castles after they share a wine flask. A character's claim that "all hunting stories are the same" prompts the Baroness to tell one in which an escaped hyena eats a gypsy child in this author's story "Esmé." The single-word sentence "Wolves." ends a story by this author, in which hunters from the (*) rival Znaeym and von Gradwitz families get trapped under a fallen tree in the Carpathians. In a story by this author, a girl with a specialty for "romance at short notice" invents a story about three hunters getting engulfed in a bog to frighten Mr. Nuttel when they return. For 10 points, name this Victorian author of "The Interlopers" and "The Open Window."
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150889-)
This work discusses a solution to the over-hunting of deer offered by a "true Lover of his Country," but cites more approvingly the accounts of a "very knowing American" and "famous Salmanaazor, a Native of the Island Formosa." This work lists "introducing a vein of parsimony," "quitting our animosities and factions," and "taxing our absentees" among the expedients that the author doesn't wish to be talked about. This essay begins by lamenting the sight of (*) female beggars "followed by three, four, or six Children, all in Rags." A practice argued for in this essay would "lessen the number of Papists" and give poor families a commodity to sell at meat markets. For 10 points, name this satirical essay by Jonathan Swift that suggests eating Irish one-year-olds.
"A Modest Proposal" [or "A Modest Proposal For preventing the Children of Poor People From being a Burden to Their Parents or Country, and For making them Beneficial to the Publick"] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150918-)
This poem's sequel was published with a "Prologue to General Hamley" and an epilogue in which Irene rebukes the poet. Mr. Ramsey repeats a line from this poem as he strides around the terrace in the first part of To the Lighthouse. This poem, the best-known use of dactylic dimeter, was inspired by an article by William Howard Russell. This poem answers the question "Was there a man dismayed?" in the negative, though the (*) subjects "knew some one had blundered." The subjects of this poem went "into the jaws of Death / Into the mouth of Hell." This poem asks "When can their glory fade?" of the title group, and states "Theirs not to reason why, / Theirs but to do and die." For 10 points, the line "Half a league, half a league" opens what poem about 600 soldiers by Alfred, Lord Tennyson?
"The Charge of the Light Brigade" &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150948-)
To worship a god represented by these animals, a character recites nonsense lineages such as "And Prankus begat Flankus!" and beats himself with a wooden coat hanger. Life-sized puppets of these animals feature in a popular stage play about one by Nick Stafford. Under the influence of a placebo truth pill, the protagonist of another play relates how he chased Jill Mason away before using a pick to blind some of these animals. The (*) psychiatrist Martin Dysart, as well as copious amounts of full frontal nudity, appear in that play titled for the scientific name of this animal by Peter Shaffer. Gloucester tries to obtain one of these animals before Richmond slays him at the end of Richard III. For 10 points, name this animal featured in the play Equus.
horses [or obvious equivalents such as pony or stallions; or War Horse; or Equus until read] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150957-)
One poem by this author is narrated by a man with a "scrofulous French novel / On grey paper with blunt type", and who states "Grr-r-r-there go, my heart's abhorrence" when he sees Brother Lawrence. Another poem by this author, which was also published in Dramatic Lyrics, features a speaker is angry that his gift of a "nine-hundred-years-old name" is ranked with "anybody's gift" by the title (*) figure. This author of "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" wrote a poem whose speaker hired the Claus of Innsbruck to cast a sculpture of Neptune in bronze; that poem opens with the Duke of Ferrara describing a painting of his wife, "looking as if she were alive." For 10 points, name this author of dramatic monologues such as "My Last Duchess".
Robert Browning &lt;Jose&gt;
5

150990-)
One of this author's characters exclaims "Oh, this feeds my soul!" while the seven deadly sins parade before him. A later author may have added comic scenes featuring the ostler Robin to a play by him, in which magical events such as a horse turning to straw and a knight's head sprouting antlers occur at the court of the German Emperor. In a play by this author, good and evil angels fight over a character who is visited by the (*) scholars Valdes and Cornelius. The title character of one of his plays asks "Was this the face that launch'd a thousand ships?" after summoning the shade of Helen with the help of Mephistopheles, who drags him to hell in the last scene due to a contract he signed. For 10 points, name this playwright of Doctor Faustus who wrote about Barabbas in The Jew of Malta.
Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

150994-)
This character's home is suggested to be the "Great Good Place" and has "fairy-tale" like qualities according to W. H. Auden's essay "Brothers and Others," which argues that this woman appears in an "Unpleasant Play." In a monologue, this character compares a certain quality to "the throned monarch better than his crown" and says that it "droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven." The Prince of Morocco and the Prince of Arragon choose (*)chests made of gold and silver when they try to woo this heiress of Belmont. Her maiden Nerissa takes the rings of Gratiano and his master after this woman disguises herself as Balthazar to save Antonio's life. The "quality of mercy" speech is given by, for 10 points, what heroine of The Merchant of Venice?
Portia&lt;Jose&gt;
5

151004-)
Seven brothers with this last name all fought at Edgehill, and one of them, John, surrendered Chester to the Parliamentarians. A commander-in-chief of the West Indies with this surname known as "Foul Weather Jack" fought the Count d'Estaing at the Battle of Grenada in 1779. A man with this surname fathered a woman with a different surname who devised a way to compute the Bernoulli numbers using Charles Babbage's Difference Engine. Programmer (*)Ada Lovelace was the daughter of a man with this last name who was deemed "mad, bad, and dangerous to know" by Lady Caroline Lamb. That same man with this last name died in 1824 before he could attack Lepanto during the Greek War of Independence. For 10 points, give this surname of the womanizing Romantic poet of "She Walks In Beauty".
Byron[or Gordon Byron] &lt;Bentley&gt;
5

151018-)
The son of a "black sheep" member of this family is married to a South American woman named Beryl Garcia, who objects to his life of crime. That villainous member of this family proposed marriage to Laura Lyons to gain her cooperation. This family is served by Barrymore, who brings supplies to his brother-in-law, the escaped killer Selden. During the English Civil War, a member of this family named (*) Hugo offered his soul in exchange for Satan's help abducting a woman. The villainous Mr. Stapleton, who is actually part of this family, kills his relatives by taking advantage of a curse involving a spectral animal. For 10 points, Sherlock Holmes solves a mystery involving a supposedly ghostly hound plaguing an estate belonging to what family?
Baskervilles [or Stapletons until mentioned] &lt;Cheyne&gt;
5

151039-)
A character is improbably described as doing this activity while "shouldering thirty battle-dresses," which he does to escape after his uncle is killed. A character describes how he engaged in this activity for seven nights in the "perishing cold," during which he battled and killed nine monsters. In a flyting scene, Unferth notes that the protagonist was defeated in this sort of contest by his childhood friend (*) Breca. The protagonist uses this mode of traveling to reach the cave of a creature whom he decapitates with a sword made for giants. That hag, whose lair is only accessible by this mode of travel, had a son who terrorized Hrothgar's hall. For 10 points, Beowulf excels at what mode of travel, which he uses to reach the home of Grendel's mother in a lake?
swimming [or diving; accept word forms of either answer] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151050-)
An essay argues that the "artificial comedy" of this century occurs in a "utopia of gallantry" unrelated to morality. A work from this century's first year contains a "proviso scene" in which Millamant and Mirabell discuss the terms of their marriage. In a play from this century, Sir Oliver, disguised as a moneylender, is pleased that his nephew refuses to sell his portrait. David Garrick speaks the prologue of a play from this century whose plot is set off by a (*) prank played at the Three Pigeons alehouse by Tony Lumpkin. Plays from this century include one about the gossip-mongerer Lady Sneerwell, and one in which Kate Hardcastle is mistaken for a barmaid; those plays are The School for Scandal and She Stoops to Conquer. For 10 points, name this century when Oliver Goldsmith and Richard Sheridan wrote plays.
18th century [or 1700s; prompt on "the last century"] [The first two works are "On the Artificial Comedy of the Last Century" by Charles Lamb and The Way of the World by William Congreve.] &lt;Brownstein&gt; Bonuses
5

151064-)
In a story set in this city, Ali asks "So who's the fanatic now?" after his taxi-driver father gets drunk and beats him. Hanif Kureishi's "My Son the Fanatic" is set in this city, where Keisha saves Leah from drowning in a pool and later renames herself Natalie in a novel titled for one of its districts. In this city, the FutureMouse project is opposed by Millat Iqbal, a member of the fundamentalist group KEVIN. This city is the setting of NW (n-w) and (*) White Teeth by Zadie Smith. This is the capital of a country that a plane carrying Gibreel Farishta and Saladin Chamcha is approaching when it explodes, transforming them into an angel and a devil, in The Satanic Verses. For 10 points, name this capital of the country where the India-born author Salman Rushdie is a citizen.
London &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151086-)
Characters in a play by this author insert phrases like "our daily mask," "our daily week," and "our daily cue" into the Lord's prayer. In a play by this author, a poet who is later killed by a monkey bite in the Indies gifts a copy of his bad poem "The Couch of Eros," in which other characters place a duel challenge and a drawing of a hermit. In a play by this author, drum and flute music heralds the appearance of actors from barrels on a (*) ship. Thomasina and Septimus waltz at the end of a play by him set at Sidley Park in both 1809 and the present day. A play by this author features two characters who see a coin land on heads 92 times. For 10 points, name this playwright of Arcadia and Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.
Tom Stoppard [or Tomáš Straussler] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151102-)
The opening two words "Smart lad" in this poem's third quatrain are both stressed, breaking the otherwise iambic tetrameter of the poem. This poem's penultimate quatrain advises "So set, before its echoes fade, / The fleet foot on the sill of shade." Earlier, the poet contrasts two different occasions when the title figure is carried shoulder-high. The speaker of this poem commands the listener to "hold to the low lintel up / The still-defended (*) challenge cup" and it ends with the couplet, "And find unwithered on its curls / The garland briefer than a girl's." It begins by remembering "The time you won your town the race." Published in the collection A Shropshire Lad, for 10 points, name this A. E. Housman poem about a recently deceased running champion.
"To An Athlete Dying Young" &lt;Bentley&gt;
5

151124-)
In the second stanza of a poem addressed to one of these things, the speaker says "I would, before my time to go, / Sing of old Eire and the ancient ways." Yeats wrote to one of these things "upon the Rood of Time," and the speaker of another poem titled for one of these things pledges to "come again… Tho' it were ten thousand mile." One of these things is told "The invisible worm, / That flies in the night / In the howling storm: / Has found out thy bed" in a Blake poem about a (*) "sick" one. Another poem compares one of these objects to "my love… That's newly sprung in June." The addressees are advised to gather these things "while ye may" in Herrick's "To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time." For 10 points, Robert Burns wrote about "A Red, Red" one of what type of flower?
rose [or rosebuds; sick rose; or a red, red rose; prompt on flower until mentioned] &lt;Bentley&gt;
5

151161-)
A housekeeper in this novel is referred to as "Ribbons" and has nightly drinking parties with her boss until she is caught opening his office safe. In this novel, a portrait of a fat man on an elephant is sold at an estate auction. A soldier in this novel flees Brussels on an overpriced horse he bought from the main character. The protagonist of this novel performs a charade of Clytemnestra and throws a dictionary out of a coach's window after (*) graduating in the first chapter. That protagonist of this novel has romances with Lord Steyne and Jos after separating from Rawdon Crawley. In this novel, George Osborne marries a graduate of Miss Pinkerton's academy named Amelia Sedley. For 10 points, name this "novel without a hero" about Becky Sharp by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151167-)
A letter in this novel describes an old man practicing walking on lawn steps where he'd fallen "as though he hoped to find some precious jewel he had dropped." This novel's protagonist repeats "I am unable to assist in this matter" when a dinner guest interrogates him on current events to ridicule democracy. This novel discusses Giffen's, a brand of silver polish that helps ease relations between Lord Halifax and Herr Ribbentrop at a conference hosted by a (*) Nazi sympathizer. The narrator of this novel, who now works for the American Mr. Farraday, narrates his road trip through the English countryside to visit his former co-worker Miss Kenton, whom he hopes to bring back to Darlington Hall. For 10 points, name this novel about the butler Stevens by Kazuo Ishiguro.
The Remains of the Day &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151175-)
Hugh MacDiarmid wrote "another" version of this author's epitaph for mercenaries who fought on "the day when heaven was falling." A poem by this author describes a "king who reigned in the East" whose enemies "poured strychnine in his cup." One of this poet's speakers replies "Malt does more than Milton can to justify God's ways to man" to critics complaining that his verse "gives a chap the belly-ache." In one of his poems, the speaker remembers being (*) advised to "give crowns and pounds and guineas, but not your heart away" when he was "one and twenty." A poem by this author of "Terence, This is Stupid Stuff" recalls a time the addressee "won [his] town the race." For 10 points, name this poet who collected "To an Athlete Dying Young" in A Shropshire Lad.
A. E. Housman [or Alfred Edward Housman] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151210-)
The speaker of this poem compares its setting to a "savage place" haunted by a "woman wailing for her demon-lover," and it analogizes some huge flying rock fragments to "chaffy grain beneath the thresher's flail." This poem's speaker imagines himself with "flashing eyes" and "floating hair" as a consequence of his eating honey-dew and drinking "the (*) milk of Paradise." This poem's final section describes its speaker's vision of an Abyssinian maid playing on a dulcimer and singing of Mount Abora, and it begins with a description of a site where "Alph, the sacred river ran, through caverns measureless to man." A "stately-pleasure dome" is decreed in Xanadu in, for 10 points, what poem by Samuel Taylor Coleridge named for a Mongol ruler?
"Kubla Khan" &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151220-)
At a party in this novel, a pregnant woman socializes with the guests while her husband hides behind a newspaper. A letter rejecting a woman in this novel is accompanied by a lock of the woman's hair that the sender had cut and kissed. A couple in this novel meet when the man helps the woman up after she slips and falls in the rain. A man in this novel is disinherited by his aunt for seducing the fifteen-year old (*) Eliza Williams. In this novel, Robert, the brother of the proprietress of the Norland estate, marries the gold-digger Lucy Steele. A woman in this novel ends up with the older Colonel Brandon instead of the charming John Willoughby. For 10 points, Elinor and Marianne Dashwood personify the two title traits of what novel by Jane Austen?
Sense and Sensibility &lt;Gupta&gt;
5

151249-)
In this novel, a sleepwalker carries his wife across a river and lays her in a stone sarcophagus in the ruins of a Cistercian (sis-TUR-shan) abbey. This novel's protagonist describes the "blighted star" they live on to her brother Abraham just before accidentally killing their family horse Prince. At Talbothay's dairy, this novel's protagonist befriends the milkmaids Izz, Retty, and Marian, who all love a man who leaves (*) Wessex to explore farming options in Brazil. After a police chase concludes at Stonehenge, this novel ends with a gentleman farmer and his sister-in-law watching for the black flag that signals the execution of a woman who murders Alec, the father of her illegitimate baby Sorrow. For 10 points, name this Thomas Hardy novel about a woman who marries Angel Clare.
Tess of the D'Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented &lt;Mehigan&gt;
5

151267-)
In a story by this author, Prince Florizel of Bohemia meets a young man distributing free cream tarts and subsequently joins the "Suicide Club." In another of his stories, the Hawaiian man Keawe (kay-AH-way) acquires a bottle containing a wish-granting imp that must always be resold at a loss. One of this author's protagonists falls asleep in a barrel of apples, where he overhears men plotting a mutiny. This author depicted the aftermath of the (*) Jacobite rising in a novel in which Uncle Ebenezer tries to kill David by making him climb a treacherous tower. In another of his novels, Billy Bones's visit to the Admiral Benbow Inn prompts Squire Trelawney and Jim Hawkins to set sail for the title location. For 10 points, name this author of Kidnapped and Treasure Island.
Robert Louis Stevenson &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151292-)
In the first line of a poem, this character cries "Courage!" and claims that "this mounting wave will roll us shoreward soon." This character then arrives in a "land in which it seemed always afternoon." Describing his son, this character concludes, "He works his work, I mine." In the opening of another poem, this character notes that "I am become a name" and regrets having to "mete and dole unequal laws unto a savage race." In that poem, this character decides "to (*) sail beyond the sunset," even though he is not "that strength that in old days moved earth and heaven." For 10 points, identify this unnamed leader in Tennyson's "The Lotos-eaters" who also narrates a dramatic monologue ending with his resolution to "strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."
Ulysses [or Odysseus] &lt;Mehigan&gt;
5

151306-)
The first play published by an Englishwoman is a 1613 "Tragedy" of a queen of this group by Elizabeth Cary. One of these people disguises himself as a French lute player to kill his blackmailer and the courtesan Bellarmina with poisoned flowers. That member of this group claims "As for myself, I walk abroad a-nights and kill sick people groaning under walls." Calymath is saved from the plans of one of them when Governor Ferneze opens a (*) trap door. A member of this religious group buys the slave Ithamore, whom he sends to poison the residents of a nunnery, and dies in a boiling cauldron. For 10 points, name this religious group which Barrabas belongs to in a Christopher Marlowe play set in Malta and which also includes The Merchant of Venice's moneylender Shylock.
Jews [or Hebrews; or Jewry; or anything indicating adherents of Judaism] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151327-)
This poet described floating in the ocean, seeing a butterfly overhead, and reminiscing about his dead wife in the poem "Amphibian." The narrator of another poem by this man claims "man's reach should exceed his grasp, or what's a heaven for?" That narrator dreams of working on one of the "four great walls in the New Jerusalem" alongside Rafael and Leonardo while painting his wife Lucrezia. Other artworks in this man's poetry include a bronze statue of (*) Neptune taming a seahorse cast by Claus of Innsbruck and placed near a painting of a woman who "liked whate'er she looked on." The narrator of a dramatic monologue by this poet killed his wife because she had "a heart too soon made glad." For 10 points, name this poet of "Andrea del Sarto" and "My Last Duchess."
Robert Browning &lt;Mehigan&gt;
5

151338-)
This character exclaims "Thinketh! He dwelleth i' the cold o' the moon" in a poem which describes the making of the sun and moon by a creator who is "ill at ease." This character greets his white master with the Swahili word for freedom, uhuru, in a play by Aimé Césaire (ay-mee si-ZAIR). This character believes that two men who give him "celestial liquor" are gods and plots with them against his lord, who freed a character this figure's mother imprisoned in a (*) "cloven pine." This colleague of Stephano and Trinculo meditates on the god Setebos in a Robert Browning poem. This son of the Algerian sorceress Sycorax attempts to rape Miranda, the daughter of the Milanese magician he serves. For 10 points, name this slave of Prospero in Shakespeare's The Tempest.
Caliban &lt;Alston&gt;
5

151351-)
A novel by this author contains the short story "Wandering Willie's Tale" within it and is named for a Jacobite who kidnaps his nephew Darsie Latimer in order to help restore Prince Charles Edward to the throne. William Thackeray wrote a sequel to one of this writer's books in which the title character defeats Brian de Bois-Guilbert and Reginald Front-de-Beuf while disguised as a (*) disinherited knight. In that book by this author of Redgauntlet, the title character besieges Torquilstone to rescue Isaac the Jew and his daughter Rebecca. The title character of that novel by this author joins Richard I in the 3rd Crusade after his father Cedric disowns him for falling in love with his ward, the lady Rowena. For 10 points, name this author of Ivanhoe.
Sir Walter Scott &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151364-)
A character named for this sort of animal is lamented as a "true, wise friend" by the sobbing protagonist. A character decides "next time there would be no mercy" after finding one of these animals caught in some creepers but not using his knife fast enough. Chants like "cut her throat! spill her blood!" accompany a ritual centered on this kind of animal. The taunt "sucks to your ass-mar" is shouted at a character (*) nicknamed for this sort of animal whom Roger crushes at Castle Rock with a boulder. The head of one of these animals claims to be the "Beast" during Simon's hallucination and is impaled on a stick by Jack. For 10 points, a fat, bespectacled schoolboy is nicknamed for what sort of animal in William Golding's The Lord of the Flies?
pigs [or Piggy; or swine; or sows; or boars] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151386-)
While on the run, a character in this novel overturns a table and grabs his blood-stained hat from a salesman who tries to sell him an "invaluable composition" for removing stains. That character in this novel accidentally hangs himself when he imagines seeing the eyes of his girlfriend, which causes him to slip from a roof. A character in this novel ties a rock to a handkerchief and tries to drown his dog Bull's Eye. Charley Bates steals Mr. Brownlow's handkerchief in this novel with the assistance of (*) Jack Dawkins, who is known as The Artful Dodger. In this novel, Bill Sikes mercilessly beats his girlfriend Nancy to death. For 10 points, name this novel by Charles Dickens in which the title character joins Fagin's band of thieves.
Oliver Twist; or, The Parish Boy's Progress &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151400-)
A character in this novel goes to war "to save an England which consisted almost entirely of Shakespeare's plays and Miss Isabel Pole in a green dress." Another character in this book constantly fidgets with his horn-handled pocket knife. A soldier in this novel loses his capacity for feeling after the death of his commander Evans but soothes himself by making a hat with his wife (*) Lucrezia. The protagonist of this novel reminisces about time spent at Bourton with Peter Walsh and Sally Seton. This novel begins with the protagonist leaving to buy flowers for the party she hosts that night, where she hears that Septimus Smith has jumped out a window. For 10 points, name this Virginia Woolf novel about one day in the life of Clarissa.
Mrs. Dalloway &lt;Mehigan&gt; Bonuses
5

151423-)
In a poem, this author compares himself to a "usurp'd town" and tells the addressee that he is "betroth'd unto your enemy" before declaring "Yet dearly I love you, and would be lov'd fain." A poem by this man begins by describing how "virtuous men pass mildly away" before telling the addressee that "thy firmness makes my circle just" in a metaphor comparing their souls to a pair of "stiff twin (*) compasses." This author of "Batter my heart, three-person'd God" declares that his addressee is "slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men," in a poem concluding "one short sleep past, we wake eternally." For 10 points, name this author of "A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning" whose Holy Sonnets include "Death be not Proud."
John Donne &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151475-)
In a play by this author, a man translates a passage of Euripides with the title character's name substituted for the word "loveliness." In one of his plays, the ruffian Bill Walker apologizes for hitting Jenny Hill after a wrestler kneels on his head and prays for him. Lady Britomart's ex-husband passes his company to the foundling scholar (*) Adolphus Cusins in a play by this author in which Andrew Undershaft perturbs his daughter by donating money made in arms manufacturing to the Salvation Army. Another play by this author opens with Colonel Pickering making a bet that Professor Higgins can't make the flower girl Eliza Doolittle speak like a duchess. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of Major Barbara and Pygmalion.
George Bernard Shaw &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151495-)
This novel's last chapter offers a "fake" happy ending by stating "Grow green again, tender little parasite, round the rugged old oak to which you cling," before really ending by asking "which of us is happy in this world?" A character in this novel shouts "Vive la France!" as she flings an autographed copy of Samuel Johnson's Dictionary out of her carriage. That woman in this novel sells her carriage to her brother-in-law Jos while trying to flee (*) Brussels, which occurs after she has an affair with George Osborne, a soldier who dies at Waterloo. This novel opens by describing two students at Ms. Pinkerton's Academy, Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp. For 10 points, a location in John Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress provides the title of what novel by William M. Thackeray?
Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151502-)
In a story by this author, Neville St. Clair abandons his job as a journalist and becomes a "professional beggar" after faking his own death. A character created by this author earns a lot of money copying Encyclopedia Britannica articles; that happens in a story in which the protagonist hides outs in Jabez Wilson's pawn shop to observe Spaulding and John Clay trying to rob a bank. In another of this writer's stories, the body of Openshaw is found in a river, leading the protagonist to figure out that the (*) Ku Klux Klan murdered him. This author of "The Man with the Twisted Lip," "The Five Orange Pips," and "The Red-Headed League," created a character who lives at 221B Baker Street. For 10 points, name this Victorian author who wrote the Sherlock Holmes stories.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151522-)
This unnamed character tells the story of a family who is banished when one of their members helps a Turkish merchant escape from prison. This character plants a portrait on a girl he finds sleeping in a barn in order to frame her for murder. This character discovers a trunk containing works by Plutarch and Milton while living outside a cottage inhabited by Felix, Agatha, and their blind father (*) de Lacey. This character strangles Elizabeth on her wedding night and kills Henry Clerval on a beach. At the end of the novel he appears in, this character weeps over the corpse of the title character aboard Robert Walton's ship in the arctic. For 10 points, identify this creation of "the Modern Prometheus," a creature built by Victor Frankenstein in a Mary Shelley novel.
Frankenstein's monster [or the daemon; or the creature before "creature" is read; do not accept or prompt on "Victor" or "Frankenstein" alone] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151543-)
In one of this author's novels, the unscrupulous journalist Parkinson travels to a leper colony to sensationalize the story of the "famous ecclesiastical architect" Monsieur Querry. The protagonist of another of this author's novels meets with Dr. Hasselbacher at a luncheon and later nearly dies when a man named Carter poisons his drink. In that novel by this author, the protagonist adopts the (*) codename 59200/5 after his daughter Milly's extravagant lifestyle nearly bankrupts him. This author of A Burnt Out Case wrote about a salesman who submits vacuum cleaner schematics as intelligence to MI-6. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about agent James Wormold in Our Man in Havana and whose other novels include The Power and the Glory and The End of the Affair.
Graham Greene [accept Henry Graham Greene] &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151547-)
At the end of a "trial of dexterity" in this nation, a purple, yellow, or white-colored stick is awarded to the top three contestants. High officials in this nation's government are periodically forced to show their skill in rope-dancing, an activity that Flimnap, the Lord High Treasurer, excels at. The crown prince of this country wears differently sized heels to show his allegiance to the Tramecksan party. This country, whose capital is (*) Mildendo, wins a naval battle after a man uses some cables to steal the enemy fleet. This country fights a war with its neighbor over the proper way to break an egg, and a surgeon washes up here following the shipwreck of the Antelope. For 10 points, name this rival country of Blefuscu, whose diminutive people tie up Lemuel Gulliver.
Lilliput &lt;Bentley&gt; Bonuses
5

151567-)
This character is told "the grave doth gape for thee thrice wider than for other men" before being banished. He is described as "ten times better than the Nine Worthies" by his loving companion Doll Tearsheet. This character drunkenly passes out behind an arras while hiding from a sheriff who implicates him in a robbery on Gad's Hill. This character gives a speech dismissing honor as a "mere scutcheon" before engaging (*) Douglas in combat and faking his own death during the Battle of Shrewsbury. Originally named Oldcastle, this character spends most of his time cavorting at the Boar's Head Inn with Pistol, Bardolph, Ned Poins, and Prince Hal. For 10 points, name this bumbling knight who appears in Shakespeare's Henry IV.
Sir John Falstaff &lt;Manners&gt;
5

151595-)
This novel's epilogue describes a small flame "burning anew among the old stones" of a chapel. A painter of Latin American ruins in this novel completes a series of medallion murals in the garden room of a country estate. In their college days, this novel's characters use a megaphone to proclaim "The Waste Land" across the quad and put each other into the Mercury Fountain at (*) Oxford. An alcoholic in this novel serves as a porter at a Tunisian monastery years after carrying around a teddy bear named Aloysius. This novel's protagonist has an affair with Julia, the fiancee of Rex Mottram and sister of Sebastian Flyte. For 10 points, name this novel about Captain Charles Ryder's entanglements with the aristocratic Marchmain family, by Evelyn Waugh.
Brideshead Revisited &lt;Mehigan&gt;
5

151621-)
An essay mocking the style of "character" criticism by L.C. Knights sardonically asks "How many children had" this character? This character encourages another by exhorting, "screw your courage to the sticking place, and we'll not fail." In a late scene, this character laments the inadequacies of "all the perfumes of Arabia." This character fears that another character's nature is "too full o' th' (*) milk of human kindness," even though that character is thane of Glamis and becomes thane of Cawdor. News of this character's death cues the lament "she should have died hereafter." She exclaims "Out, damned spot!" during her sleepwalking scene. For 10 points, name this woman who plots King Duncan's death and becomes Queen of Scotland in a play by William Shakespeare.
Lady Macbeth [do not accept or prompt on "Macbeth"] &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151629-)
After snatching some chocolate from his sister's hands, this character runs away and never sees his mother or sister again. This character is surprised to learn how tiny a coral polyp is when his paperweight is shattered. Late in the book he appears in, this character is told "the word you are trying to think of is solipsism" after being informed "we control the past." This character's wife, a member of the (*) Anti-Sex League, leaves him when their union proves childless. This character, who hides out in Mr. Charrington's shop, predicts that Syme will become an unperson. This character falls in love with Julia but breaks when taken to the Ministry of Love. For 10 points, name this character who O'Brien tortures into loving Big Brother in the novel 1984.
Winston Smith [accept either] &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151648-)
The speaker sings of this concept's "trans-shifting" before describing "how roses first came red" in the poem "The Argument of His Book." In the poem "Corinna's Going a-Maying", the speaker implores the addressee to "take the harmless folly of" this concept. The speaker of another poem urges his addressee to help him "devour" this concept "like amorous birds of prey." That poem warns that this concept's "winged (*) chariot" is "hurrying near." While this is "still a-flying," the speaker of another poem entreats "Gather ye rosebuds, while ye may." In the first stanza of Andrew Marvell's "To His Coy Mistress," the speaker considers the case in which he had "but world enough and" this thing. For 10 points, Robert Herrick advised virgins to "make much of" what concept?
time &lt;Jose&gt;
5

151672-)
A quotation from this poem provides the title for William Styron's "memoir of madness" about his recovery from depression, Darkness Visible. A character in this poem disguises himself as a cherub in order to ask directions from Uriel. Instead of applause, one of this poem's characters hears a "dismal universal hiss," and finds his mouth full of ashes after biting into some (*) fruit. This poem's first book describes a "horrid crew" that "[rolled] in the fiery gulf" for nine days, and claims that the poem's purpose is "to justify the ways of God to man." In this poem, Raphael recounts a three day-long battle that sends rebellious angels and Lucifer to hell, and Michael expels Adam and Eve from Eden. For 10 points, name this epic poem by John Milton.
Paradise Lost &lt;Yu&gt;
5

151685-)
In a novel by this author, a child kills her brother's rabbits by forgetting to feed them and later becomes obsessed with Thomas Kempis's The Imitation of Christ. Characters in a novel by this author draw lots to determine the guilt of a man whose pocketknife was found in the money drawer of a deceased deacon. In one of this author's novels, a man dies before finishing his comparative study The Key to All Mythologies. Dunstan's skeleton is found in a stone-pit clutching the (*) gold of one of this author's title characters. This creator of the siblings Tom and Maggie Tulliver wrote a novel in which Casaubon leaves a will intended to stop Will Ladislaw from marrying Dorothea Brooke. For 10 point, name this author of The Mill on the Floss, Silas Marner, and Middlemarch.
George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans] &lt;Brownstein&gt;
5

151698-)
One of this author’s poems urges the reader to “Roam On!” because “the light we sought is shining still,” as shown by the fact that “Our Tree yet crowns the hill.” That poem alludes to another of this author’s works in its first line, “How changed is here each spot man makes or fills!” A man is described as being conquered by “Time, not Corydon,” by this author, who called Oxford the “sweet city with her dreaming spires” in the same poem about (*) Arthur Henry Clough. This poet of “Thyrsis” and a girl stand “with the cliffs of England crumbling away behind them” in Anthony Hecht’s parody of his best-known poem, which describes a “darkling plain where ignorant armies clash by night.” For 10 points, name this poet who wrote “The sea is calm to-night” in “Dover Beach.”
Matthew Arnold &lt;CH British Literature&gt;
6

151732-)
A character in this novel needs an ether cylinder from a ship that he forgets to search for, and realizes that the book he’s reading is actually in Latin. A five-year-old in this novel is buried in the Garden of God, whose black gated entrance is marked “Silencio.” A young boy in this novel idolizes Padre José and not the saintly boy Juan. Another child in this novel brings chicken and beer to the protagonist, whom she (*) hides in a barn. The protagonist of this novel encounters a girl who teaches him Morse Code named Coral Fellows and a man with two yellow teeth. That man, the mestizo, eventually betrays the protagonist to the Lieutenant. For 10 points, name this book following the “whiskey priest,” a novel by Graham Greene.
The Power and the Glory &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
6

151748-)
Mentions of “purple curtains” and “smiling” in this writer’s poem “Lady Geraldine’s Courtship” probably influenced Poe’s “The Raven.” This writer instructs the reader to “gather the north flowers to complete the south” in one poem and describes how a “mystic Shape” replied to this poet’s question with “a silver answer” in another. This poet’s “To Flush, My Dog” inspired a (*) Virginia Woolf novel about that pet. This writer performs the title action to the “depth and breadth and height” that her “soul can reach” in a sonnet. She tells the reader she will “answer and not wait” if they call her by her “pet name,” and that she must “count the ways” of her affection, in two of her love poems. For 10 points, name this writer who included the poem “How do I love thee?” in her collection Sonnets from the Portuguese.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [or Elizabeth Barrett Browning; prompt on Browning] &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
6

151775-)
A character in this novel is confused by a “charade” beginning “My first displays the wealth and pomp of kings,” which has the answer “courtship.” The day after picking strawberries at Donwell Abbey, the protagonist of this novel cruelly reminds a woman that she must limit herself to three dull statements in a game proposed on a trip to Box Hill. A character in this novel keeps a box of bandages and pencils that her love interest (*) Mr. Elton had used, though that character eventually marries Robert Martin. Frank Churchill is secretly engaged to Jane Fairfax in this novel. At the end of this novel, Harriet Smith’s best friend confesses her love for George Knightley. For 10 points, name this novel about a member of the Woodhouse family written by Jane Austen.
Emma &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
6

151781-)
An author from this country wrote the memoir Conversations in Bloomsbury. In one novel, a character imagines the righting of a cart in this country at a farewell dinner narrated by internal monologues. Percival dies in this country in The Waves. In a novel set in this country, a man picks up a pair of broken field glasses and is later accused of sexual assault when another character claims that she swung those glasses at him. In that novel set in this country, (*) Mrs. Moore experiences a fit of claustrophobia, preventing her from exploring the Marabar Caves. In a novel set in this country, an echo gives Adela Quested a shock that leads her to falsely accuse a man of rape, and Cyril Fielding is told by Dr. Aziz that they cannot be friends until this country gains independence. For 10 points, “A Passage to” what former British colony titles a novel by E. M. Forster?
India [accept the British Raj] &lt;JK British Literature&gt;
6

151803-)
A character in this story recalls a boy named Ronnie singing “Bertie, why do you bound?” to annoy his sister. After his departure, a character in this story who carries letters of introduction written by his sister is described as having once spent a night “in a newly dug grave” on the banks of the Ganges to escape a “pack of pariah dogs.” In this story from Beasts and Superbeasts, an attempt at a (*) “nerve cure” is foiled by a girl’s description of the “great tragedy,” in which three men go snipe-hunting and never return. After Framton Nuttel is frightened into fleeing, the narrator of this story remarks of Mrs. Sappleton’s niece Vera that “Romance at short notice was her specialty.” For 10 points, name this short story by Saki titled for a wall aperture.
“The Open Window” &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
6

151833-)
A play by this non-Thornton Wilder author ends with Lilith giving a monologue that declares “It is enough that there is a beyond.” The first and last parts of that “metabiological pentateuch” by this author are set in 4004 BC and 31920 AD. Frank disgusts the protagonist by comparing them to “babes in the woods” after learning that they’re half-siblings through their father Reverend Samuel Gardner in one of this author’s “Plays (*) Unpleasant.” This author of Back to Methuselah wrote a play in which the arms manufacturer Andrew Undershaft tries to donate to the Salvation Army, and a play in which Colonel Pickering bets against Henry Higgins. For 10 points, name this writer of Major Barbara and a play about the Cockney flower girl Eliza Doolittle, Pygmalion.
George Bernard Shaw &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
6

151859-)
A poem about this event tells a “droll rat” that “they would shoot you if they knew / Your cosmopolitan sympathies.” In addition to that Isaac Rosenberg poem, a pair of poems written during this event include the parallel exclamations, “O Jesus, make it stop!” and “O Christ, they’re coming at us!” Dusk is described as a “drawing-down of blinds” in a poem about this event, which inspired a poem that describes a man (*) “drowning” under a “green sea” and “green light.” Siegfried Sassoon and Rupert Brooke wrote about this conflict, the subject of a poem that describes men who walk like “old beggars under sacks” until a man shouts “Gas! GAS! Quick, boys!” For 10 points, name this war, the subject of Wilfred Owen’s “Dulce et Decorum Est” and John McCrae’s “In Flanders Fields.”
World War I [or the Great War; accept “Break of Day in the Trenches” until “pair” is read] &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
6

151863-)
A line from this poem about an “inevitable hour” may draw on its poet’s earlier “Monody on the Death of Queen Caroline.” “A youth to Fortune and to Fame unknown” whose “frailties” and “merits” dwell in “the bosom of his Father and his God” provides the subject for the epitaph that ends this poem. Near the end of this poem, the absence of the speaker from his “fav’rite tree” and “custom’d hill” is recalled by an imaginary “hoary-headed (*) swain.” “Some Cromwell guiltless of his country’s blood” and “some mute inglorious Milton” are imagined in the title location of this poem. This poem provides the title for Thomas Hardy’s Far From the Madding Crowd and begins by describing the “knell of parting day.” For 10 points, name this poem by Thomas Gray.
“Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard” &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
6

151898-)
Northrop Frye suggested that the aspect of poetry Aristotle called opsis is rooted in this sort of text, whereas melos is rooted in the charm. A medieval text of this sort uses phallic imagery to describe an onion being cut by a “proud woman”; that one is collected with over ninety of these texts in the Anglo-Saxon Exeter Book. One of these things that describes “Thirty white horses on a red hill” appears in a (*) chapter of The Hobbit titled for these things “in the dark,” in which Bilbo Baggins and Gollum exchange statements of this sort. In Alice and Wonderland, the Mad Hatter gives one of these things that consists of the question “Why is a raven like a writing-desk?” For 10 points, name this type of puzzling statement or question with an answer.
riddles &lt;JB British Literature&gt;
6

151914-)
One poem about this creature claims it has “a soul as strong as a mountain river / pouring our praise to the Almighty Giver.” Two noises “too old to end” shame a “shallow and frail town” in a poem partially titled for this creature. This creature is used as a metaphor for when “Men’s spirit will be flesh bound” in a poem in which it provides the “sweetest, sweetest spells.” Those poems are both by Gerard Manley Hopkins. The most famous poem about this animal asks “What (*) objects are the fountains / Of thy happy strain?” before comparing it to a “glow worm golden / in a dell of dew.” In that poem, this bird is told to “teach me half the gladness/that thy brain must know.” For 10 points, name this bird, the addressee of the phrase “Hail to thee, blithe spirit!” in a poem by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
skylark [accept “To a Skylark” or “The Sea and the Skylark” or “The Caged Skylark”] &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
6

151936-)
An author with this surname wrote a work of criticism framed as a fictional debate about Samuel Richardson’s Clarissa. That author wrote about the title character’s quest for a “real Friend” in The Adventures of David Simple. That author Sarah was the sister of an author with this surname who wrote a picaresque novel about a character who gives a would-be highwayman two guineas out of pity. In that novel by an author with this surname, Mr. (*) Fitzpatrick fights a duel with a character who is believed to be the son of Jenny and Partridge, and who sleeps with Mrs. Waters. An author with this surname wrote about a “foundling” who turns out to be the son of Bridget Blifil, making him Squire Allworthy’s nephew. For 10 points, give this surname of the author of Tom Jones.
Fielding [accept Sarah Fielding or Henry Fielding] &lt;JK British Literature&gt;
6

151956-)
In a novel from this movement, Susan Brown’s Aston Martin-loving husband leaves her for Alice Aisgill. That novel from this movement chronicles Joe Lampton’s move to Warley. In a work from this movement, the protagonist meets the “pop-eyed potbellied governor” after the discovery of money in a drainpipe leads to him being sent to a Borstal. In a play from this movement, a man says “What the hell is that?” when his wife jumps up and down in imitation of a (*) squirrel. In that play, Alison’s miscarriage forces her to return to her husband Jimmy Porter. John Braine’s Room at the Top and Alan Sillitoe’s The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner are works of this movement. For 10 points, John Osborne’s play Look Back in Anger exemplifies what 1950s movement of disgruntled British writers?
Angry Young Men [or kitchen sink realism] &lt;OL British Literature&gt;
6

151982-)
In one novel, one of these people experiences amnesia that causes him to forget his wife Kitty and fall back in love with Margaret Grey. That novel by Rebecca West is titled for the “Return” of one of these people. In another novel titled for one of these people, the narrator learns that his wife has been lying about a heart condition that makes her unable to have sex, and is having an affair with a man she met at (*) Nauheim. In that novel titled for one of them, a girl repeats “I believe in an omnipotent God” and “shuttlecocks” after a mental breakdown. Nancy Rufford is in love with one of these people, whose expensive affairs include one with Florence Dowell, in a novel titled for him that opens “This is the saddest story I have ever heard.” For 10 points, Ford Madox Ford wrote about a “good” person of what type?
soldier [accept Return of the Soldier or The Good Soldier; accept answers like veteran until “titled for” is read, but prompt afterwards; prompt on Captain] &lt;JK British Literature&gt;
6

151999-)
One of these places is the home of Cassandra Mortmain in a novel by Dodie Smith that is titled for one of them. A series named for one of these places includes Titus Groan and Titus Alone. Mervyn Peake’s Gormenghast is centered on one of these places. In a novel titled for one of these buildings, two men agree to marry each others daughters, and a mark shaped like a bloody arrow on another character’s shoulder reveals that he is a (*) friar’s son. Theodore helps a girl escape from one of these places, causing the ire of Manfred. A novel titled for one of these buildings opens with Conrad being crushed by a giant helmet. For 10 points, name these buildings often present in Gothic literature, like Horace Walpole’s The [this building] of Otranto.
castle [prompt on synonyms like citadel or palace or fortress] &lt;JK British Literature&gt;
6

152010-)
NOTE: two-part answer required. One work of this type by this author is addressed “To the Lord General
Cromwell” in 1652, while the last one published begins, “Methought I saw my late espoused saint.” A better known
work of this type by this author begins, “Avenge, O lord, thy slaughtered saints whose bones/Lie scattered on the
Alpine Mountains cold. That work, “On the Late Massacre in Piemont,” was followed by a work of this style by this
author which ends, “They also serve who only stand and wait.” FTP what works by what author include the one
titled “When I Consider How My Light Is Spent,” a collection of 14-line poems by the author of Paradise Lost?
sonnets by John Milton (accept anything involving “sonnets” and “Milton”)
6

152011-)
1. The title character of this play takes it upon himself to “drive pollution from this land” after a scene in which a procession of citizens offers wool-wrapped sticks to stop a plague. This play is followed by one in which the title character dies “at Colonus.” An oracle in this play reveals that a plague will only stop once the murderer of (*) Laius is banished. This play ends with Creon offering the title character shelter after Jocasta hangs herself, causing the protagonist to use the pins from her dress to put out his own eyes. For 10 points, name this Sophocles tragedy, in which the title character kills his father and marries his mother.
Oedipus Rex [or Oedipus the King] &lt;AB&gt;
3

152023-)
13. A novel by this author ends with forces from Rendang invading the title Island while Will Farnaby hears a bird shouting “Attention.” Walter Bidlake impregnates his secretary in a novel by this author, who detailed his first mescaline trip in The Doors of Perception. A character created by this author of Point Counter Point secludes himself in a lighthouse, where he whips himself until (*) Lenina Crowne comes to visit him. In that novel by this author, the consumption of soma is used by World Controllers like Mustapha Mond to keep the World State placated. For 10 points, name this author of the dystopian novel Brave New World.
Aldous Leonard Huxley &lt;AB&gt;
3

152046-)
16. A character’s final line in this play is “And I’ll go to bed at noon.” The world “howl” is repeated four times before a character declares that “you are men of stones” in the fifth act of this play. In an earlier scene in this play, a character says “I have heard more since” before declaring “As flies to wanton boys are we to the gods.” A character disguised as Tom O’Bedlam pretends to lead the blinded (*) Gloucester off a cliff in this play. This play opens with Regan and Goneril flattering the title character in order to gain shares of his land. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play about a king who exiles his only honest daughter, Cordelia.
The Tragedie of King Lear &lt;AB&gt;
3

152059-)
9. A novel by this author features a very short section titled “Time Passes,” which follows a section in which Charles Tansley is repeatedly mentioned to be an atheist. Another novel by this author opens with the title character going to Bond Street to buy flowers, after which Peter Walsh visits and triggers stream-of-consciousness memories. (*) Septimus Smith throws himself out of a window in the climax of that novel by this author. In another novel by this author, the painter Lily Briscoe lives with the Ramsay family. For 10 points, name this author of To the Lighthouse and Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf &lt;AB&gt;
3

152085-)
15. A sci-fi story by this author, which opens by asking the reader to imagine the honeycomb-cell-like room in which Vashti lives, is titled “The Machine Stops”. In another novel by this author, John Ruskin is regularly referenced as a tastemaker, such as in one scene when the protagonist encounters a love interest while looking at some Giotto frescoes. A trip to the (*) Marabar caves prompts a sexual assault trial in one of this author’s novels. George Emerson and Lucy are the central couple of a novel by this author, and Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of rape in another. For 10 points, name this author of A Room with a View and A Passage to India.
Edward Morgan Forster &lt;AB&gt;
3

152093-)
3. Dick Dewy and Francis Day fall in love in this author’s novel Under the Greenwood Tree. The reappearance of the furmity-woman triggers the final downfall of the protagonist of one of this author’s novels. Angel Clare meets the protagonist at a May Dance in a novel by this author, who opened another book with Michael Henchard selling his (*) wife and daughter for five guineas. In a novel by this author, the title character is executed after she kills her rapist Alec. For 10 points, name this author of The Mayor of Casterbridge and Tess of the D’Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy &lt;AB&gt;
3

152114-)
4. The title object of one of this man’s poems becomes “a sudden star” as it is “shot through liquid air.” One of his poems asks “if greater Want of Skill, Appear in Writing or in Judging ill.” That poem by this author contains the lines “Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian Spring” and “To err is human, to forgive is divine,” and is titled (*) An Essay on Criticism. In this author’s most famous work, the Baron steal the title object from Belinda. For ten points, identify this satirist and author of The Dunciad, and The Rape of the Lock.
Alexander Pope &lt;KS&gt;
3

152127-)
17. This character is referred to as “lamp of the inventor” in a poem that repeatedly asks this person to “take pity on my long misery.” A cat named Behemoth accompanies this person as he visits Moscow under the name of Professor Woland in The Master and Margarita. A poem in The Flowers of Evil is titled after the “Litanies” of this character. This character causes the (*) “first disobedience,” afterwards claiming that it is “better to reign in hell than serve in heaven” in Milton’s Paradise Lost. For 10 points, name this person who makes a deal with Faust in a Goethe play.
the devil [or Satan; or Mephistopheles] &lt;AB&gt;
3

152148-)
18. In this novel, the housekeeper Mrs. Reynolds shows a boyhood portrait of an estate's owner to the Gardiners and their niece. This novel's protagonist refuses to make a promise not to get engaged to the master of that estate by Lady Catherine de Bourgh. In this novel, Charlotte Lucas marries the clergyman (*) Mr. Collins, and Lydia runs away from Longbourn with the militia officer George Wickham. In this novel, the owner of Netherfield, Charles Bingley, marries Jane. For 10 points, name this novel where Elizabeth Bennett falls in love with Mr. Darcy, by Jane Austen.
Pride and Prejudice &lt;CD&gt;
3

152159-)
9. In one of this author’s novels, the invalid John Raffles attempts to blackmail the town priest. Arthur Donnithorne leaves Hayslope for militia duty in this author’s novel about the title carpenter, who marries Dinah Morris. One of this author’s characters studies The Imitation of Christ and begins a relationship with Philip Wakem. The (*) Key to All Mythologies is written by Edward Casaubon, the husband of Dorothea Brooke, in this author’s most famous novel. For 10 points, name this author of Adam Bede, The Mill on the Floss, and a “study of provincial life” titled Middlemarch.
George Eliot [accept Mary Ann Evans] &lt;KS&gt;
3

152171-)
1. An essay titled after this author’s “De Amicitia” details his infatuation with Moses Jackson. One of this man’s poems twice mentions how the title character was carried “shoulder-high,” and proclaims that he will not join the ranks of “runners whom renown outran.” The speaker in one of his poems ignores a wise man’s advice to “Give crowns and pounds and guineas/ But not your heart away.” This author of “When I was One and Twenty” warns that “you eat your victuals fast enough” in his poem (*) “Terence, this is stupid stuff.” For 10 points, name this British poet who included “To An Athlete Dying Young” in his collection A Shropshire Lad.
Alfred Edward Housman &lt;KS&gt;
3

152193-)
3. A book by this author includes a scene that begins with the protagonist’s memory of being thrown in a cesspool and which uses Ecclesiastes to pontificate on the horrors of Hell. Much of that book by this author is set at Clongowes, and was originally titled Stephen Hero. Another novel by this author includes a chapter structured as a “catechism” called “Ithaca” and ends with a chapter from (*) Molly’s perspective called “Penelope.” That book by this author is structured around a single day in the life of Leopold Bloom. For 10 points, name this Irish author of Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Ulysses.
James Joyce &lt;AB&gt;
3

152224-)
14. In one of this author’s poems, the speaker is “honoured among the foxes and pheasants by the gay house” and “young and carefree, famous among the barns.” In another of this man’s poems, certain figures “be mad and dead as nails” under the title condition. One of his poems ends with “Time held me green and dying” and begins “I was (*) young and easy under apple boughs.” This man’s most famous poem describes figures whose “blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay” and whose “frail deeds might have danced in the green bay.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Fern Hill” and the villanelle “Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night.”
Dylan Marlais Thomas &lt;KS&gt;
3

152268-)
18. This poet described Charles Lamb's joy at leaving the city while he despairs at being left in nature in “This Lime-Tree Bower My Prison.” This man wrote about Life-in-Death and Death playing a dice game for the souls of men stranded in the Doldrums, a place where there is (*) “Water Water everywhere, / And all the boards did shrink; / Water, water, every where, / Nor any drop to drink.” In that poem by this man, a wedding-guest is accosted by a man who shot an albatross. For 10 points, name this poet of The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge &lt;CD&gt;
3

152275-)
5. An author from this country wrote about Mary and Martin Doul, who realize that they are disgusted by each other when their blindness is cured in his work The Well of the Saints. That author wrote a work in which Old Mahon is revealed to still be alive, causing Pegeen to lose her respect for Christy. Another author from this country opened a poem with “turning and turning in the widening (*) gyre” and ended that poem by asking “what rough beast [...] slouches towards Bethlehem to be born?” For 10 points, name this home country of The Playboy of the Western World, John Synge, W. B. Yeats, and the author of The Plough and the Stars, Sean O’Casey.
Ireland &lt;AB&gt;
3

152301-)
In one novel by this author, George Ponderevo helps his uncle sell the title fake drug, Tono Bungay. He wrote about Prendrick and human-animal hybrids in The Island of Doctor Moreau. In one novel, the protagonist loses an Eloi named Weena in a fire he sets to escape the (*) Morlocks, and in another, Martians invade Earth but are killed by common disease. For 10 points, name this author of The Time Machine and The War of the Worlds.
H(erbert) G(eorge) Wells
1

152322-)
A character in this work refuses a marriage proposal from St. John [sin-jin], and doubts Alice Fairfax, who blames strange sounds on Grace Poole. Mr. Brocklehurst causes the death of (*) Helen Burns, whom the protagonist meets at Lowood School in this novel. Bertha Mason was the first wife of Edward Rochester, who eventually marries the protagonist of, for 10 points, this novel by Charlotte Brontë.
Jane Eyre
1

152325-)
This novel’s protagonist follows a mysterious noise to a doorway hidden by a tapestry. The first friend that character makes is a robin who she learns is also the companion of Ben Weatherstaff. An orphaned girl goes to live with her uncle at (*) Misselthwaite Manor where she learns to enjoy playing outside after being given a jump rope by the mother of Dickon. Frances Burnett wrote, for ten points, what novel, in which Mary Lennox discovers the title location?
The Secret Garden
1

152346-)
In one work by this author, Mr. Guest recognizes two characters’ similar handwriting and Danvers Carew is murdered. In another work, Squire Trelawney hires Captain Smollett to lead a crew that includes young (*) Jim Hawkins and the pirate Long John Silver in a journey to the title location. For 10 points, identify this author of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde and Treasure Island.
Robert Louis (Balfour) Stevenson
1

152360-)
One character in this work jokingly dates her love to the day she saw Pemberley estate, and Charlotte Lucas marries Mr. Collins after her friend rejects him. This novel begins when Netherfield is rented by a “single man in (*) possession of a good fortune,” and in it, Lydia marries Mr. Wickham and Jane weds Mr. Bingley. Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy overcome poor first impressions in, for 10 points, what novel by Jane Austen?
Pride and Prejudice
1

152378-)
Balthasar delivers a sad message in this work, and Benvolio tries to broker peace between two factions. Before being killed by the “Prince of Cats,” one character in this play describes Queen Mab, and (*) Tybalt’s death causes his killer’s exile from Verona. Friar Lawrence marries the title characters, whose joint suicide reconciles the Montague and Capulet families. For 10 points, identify this Shakespearean tragedy about “a pair of star-cross’d lovers.”
Romeo and Juliet
1

152392-)
This author wrote "The Disintegration Machine" and The Lost World, which feature the rambunctious Professor Challenger. He created “the most indispensable man in the country,” and “The Woman,” who marries Godfrey Norton. Another of his characters seems to fall to his death off (*) Reichenbach Falls with Professor Moriarty; that character lives at 221b Baker Street with John Watson. For 10 points, name the author of A Study in Scarlet and The Hound of the Baskervilles, who created Sherlock Holmes.
Sir Arthur Conan Doyle
1

152401-)
A hunt in this work is reenacted by Maurice and Roger, who had skewered his quarry from behind, In this novel, Simon is killed while telling his companions about a dead parachutist, and (*) Piggy is killed by a boulder that crushes the ceremonial conch. Jack and Ralph struggle for control in, for 10 points, what William Golding novel about a group of shipwrecked boys?
Lord of the Flies
1

152423-)
This author wrote about Dr. Edwin Ransom’s encounters with life on Mars and Venus in Out of the Silent Planet and Perelandra. This author of The Screwtape Letters wrote about Digory and Polly, who pave the way for the (*) Pevensie children, and about Prince Caspian and the lion Aslan. For 10 points, identify this author of The Chronicles of Narnia, including The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe.
C(live) S(taples) Lewis (prompt on “Lewis” alone)
1

152445-)
This author wrote about two acquaintances of Tiny Cooper in collaboration with David Levithan, and in one of this man’s novels, a pair of characters leave blue “M”s and fish at the homes of their enemies. One of this author’s protagonists has dated nineteen girls with the same name, and another meets (*) Augustus Waters through a cancer support group. For 10 points, name this co-author of Will Grayson, Will Grayson who also wrote An Abundance of Katherines and The Fault in Our Stars.
John Michael Green
1

152449-)
This author wrote about Peter, Martin, and Jack each inheriting a coat in Tale of a Tub, and he satirically suggested that starving Irish children should be sold as food. This man described a conflict over whether eggs should be (*) broken on the big or little end in another work, in which the title doctor is tiny in the land of Brobdingnag and a giant in Lilliput. For 10 points, identify this author of A Modest Proposal and Gulliver’s Travels.
Jonathan Swift
1

152456-)
A character in this play is said to have “chanted snatches of old tunes” after falling out of a willow tree, and another character warns an actor not to “saw the air too much with your hand” before a performance of The Murder of Gonzago, which is staged for King (*) Claudius in this play. Gertrude is the mother of the title character, who causes the death of Ophelia by pretending to be insane. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare tragedy about a title Prince of Denmark.
The Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark
1

152480-)
In this work, Nicholas convinces John to sleep in a tub so he can sleep with Alisoun. A character in this work describes Arcite and Palamon’s fight for Emily, and a gap-toothed woman tells of a quest to find what women most desire, and another. The (*) Miller, the Wife of Bath, the Knight, and other pilgrims meet at Tabard Inn in, for 10 points, what collection of short stories written by Geoffrey Chaucer?
The Canterbury Tales
1

152488-)
The driest thing one character in this work knows is a lecture on William the Conqueror, and a poem in this novel asks how Father William can stand on his head and balance an eel on his nose. White rose bushes are (*) painted red to appease the decapitation-thirsty Queen of Hearts in this work. It features the Mad Hatter and the Cheshire Cat, who guide the title character after she falls down a rabbit hole. For 10 points, identify this novel by Lewis Carroll.
Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland
1

152499-)
In one work by this author, the protagonist gets drunk and sells his wife to Captain Newson. In another novel by this author, a suicide note reading “Done because we are too menny” is left by Little Father Time, who kills Sue Bridehead’s children. In addition to a novel about (*) Gabriel Oak’s attempts to marry Bathsheba, this author wrote a novel in which the title character is arrested at Stonehenge after killing Alec and running away with Angel Clare. For 10 points, name this author of Far from the Madding Crowd, and Tess of the d’Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy
4

152504-)
A character in this poem states that his job is “to swell a progress, start a scene or two” before declaring that he is “at times, the Fool.” The speaker of this poem worries about people reacting to a bald spot in his hair, and describes being afraid after seeing “the eternal Footman hold my coat.” This poem mentions a (*) “yellow fog” that rubs on the window-panes. The title character exclaims “No! I am not Prince Hamlet” and wonders “Do I dare disturb the universe?” A room where “The women come and go talking of Michelangelo” appears in, for 10 points, what poem by T.S. Eliot?
“The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock”
4

152512-)
In this poem, the narrator claims that “the darkness drops again” before the title event. This poem also claims that “the best lack all conviction, while the worst are full of passionate intensity.” A creature “with lion body and the (*) head of a man” in this poem is seen in “a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi.” This poem opens with “Turning and turning in the widening gyre” and contains the line “Things fall apart.” At the end of this poem, the narrator asks what rough beast “Slouches towards Bethlehem to be born.” For 10 points, name this William Butler Yeats poem, whose title alludes to the return of Christ.
“The Second Coming”
4

152519-)
Theodor, Nikolaus, and Seppi encounter this charmer who says that “man begins as dirt and departs as stench” in a novel by Mark Twain. In one work, this man puts on a show at the Variety Theater where Behemoth decapitates a man, later putting it back on due to audience demands. After journeying the Valley of Humiliation, the protagonist of (*) A Pilgrim’s Progress fights this character. This tempter finds himself on a boiling lake of lava in another epic where later on he turns into a serpent. For 10 points, name this antagonist of Paradise Lost who attempted to overthrow God.
The Devil [accept Satan, Lucifer, and Woland; prompt on the “Stranger”]
4

152539-)
At the beginning of a novel by this author, the reverend Mr. Beebe convinces Charlotte Barnett that it is okay to switch rooms to be closer to the Arno river. A character flees to Germany to hide her pregnancy after having an affair with Leonard Bast in another novel by this author. In addition to describing the love life of Lucy (*) Honeychurch, this author also wrote about Mrs. Wilcox leaving the titular estate to Margaret Schlegel. At the Marabar Caves, Adel is allegedly raped by Dr. Aziz in another work by this author of A Room With a View. For 10 points, name this author of Howards End and A Passage to India.
E.M. Forster
4

152564-)
During one of these events, Rachel Verinder acquires a cursed diamond in a Wilkie Collins novel. Tom Buchanan offers an unopened bottle of whiskey as Nick realizes he had forgotten one of these events. Meg gives one character a (*) toy drum during one of these events, which he later smashes during a game of Blind Man’s Bluff while attempting to rape Lulu. In Our Town, Emily returns from death to relive her twelfth one of these events. For 10 points, identify this day of celebration, for which Stanley receives a titular party in a Harold Pinter play.
birthdays [accept birthday party; accept The Birthday Party; accept the birthday in Moonstone; or obvious equivalents]
4

152575-)
A character in this work demands a ring as payment after disguising herself as a lawyer sent by Doctor Bellario. Nerissa and Gratiano fall in love at Belmont in this play. One character in this play asks, “If you prick us, do we not bleed?” while another claims that “the quality of (*) mercy…droppeth like a gentle rain from heaven.” During one scene in this play, a lead casket is selected, revealing a portrait of Portia, allowing Bassanio to marry her. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which the Jewish moneylender Shylock sues Antonio, who is of the title profession, for a pound of his flesh.
The Merchant of Venice
4

152593-)
In one poem, this author described “A light in sound, a sound-like power in light.” That poem asked to “Tell us of silence” and was addressed to “My pensive Sara!” Another poem by this author describes “four times fifty living men” who “dropped down one by one” after a (*) dice game between Death and Life-in-Death. In that poem by this author of the “Eolian Harp”, the title man shoots an albatross before seeing “water, water, every where.” For 10 points, name this author who described the “stately pleasure-dome” of Xanadu in “Kubla Khan” and wrote The Rime of the Ancient Mariner.
Samuel Taylor Coleridge
4

152604-)
In one novel by this author, Gwendolen pawns her turquoise necklace after losing all her money while gambling. In another novel by this author of Daniel Deronda, the protagonist has a relationship with Philip Wakem, whose father bought the title location on the (*) Floss river, where the Tulliver siblings drown. This author wrote a novel in which Dunstan Cass steals gold from the title weaver of Raveloe and another in which the death of Casaubon allows Will Ladislaw to marry Dorothea Brooke. For 10 points, name this English author of the novels Silas Marner and Middlemarch.
George Eliot [accept Mary Anne Evans]
4

152620-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist teaches a history class on Pyrrhus which is attended by the ugly student Cyril Sargent. In this author’s first novel, that same main character is pushed into a cesspool by the bully Wells and an argument later erupts about Charles (*) Parnell between his governess Dante and Mr. Casey. A fire and brimstone sermon by Father Arnall inspires Catholic zeal in one of this author’s characters, who is rescued from a brothel by Leopold Bloom in a stream-of-consciousness novel set in Dublin. For 10 points, name this Irish author of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Ulysses.
James Joyce
4

152634-)
In one section of this work, a special note is made to the protection of a petticoat meant to guard the protagonist. A court battle in this work sees Chloe kill Sir Plume with a frown and revive him with a smile. The title object is transformed into a constellation at the end of this poem, and in the third (*) Canto, a Baron successfully completes the titular action during a game of ombre, after Clarissa hands him a pair of scissors. Several sylphs, such as Ariel, are unable to protect Belinda from losing a piece of hair in, for 10 points, what mock epic poem by Alexander Pope.
The Rape of the Lock
4

152651-)
A character in one work by this author is frustrated that there are only twelve rhymes for the word “rod” while its protagonist lies about having razors. This person admonishes the overuse of foreign phrases and cliché metaphors in one essay and in another, he describes how he brought a (*) Winchester rifle to carry out the title action and “avoid looking a fool”. The protagonist of his most famous novel learns that Charrington is part of the Thought Police and is tortured with rats by O’Brien in Room 101. For 10 points, name this English author of “Shooting an Elephant” and the dystopian novel 1984.
George Orwell [accept Eric Arthur Blair]
4

152676-)
In one poem this author claimed “Soldiers find wars, and lawyers find out still Litigious men...though she and I do love.” In another poem by this author, some sad friends say “Now his breath goes,” and some say, “No.” as “Virtuous men pass mildly away.” This author of “The (*) Canonization” addressed a poem to a figure who is “a slave to Fate, chance, kings, and desperate men” and also coined the phrases “For whom the bell tolls” and “No man is an island.” For 10 points, name this author of “A Valediction: Forbidding Mourning,” who wrote “Death be not Proud” in his Holy Sonnets.
John Donne
4

152678-)
One character of this profession asks his maid Rosa to look for a horse after his dies. In The Bald Soprano, Mr. Smith complains that a character of this profession did not die because “the captain of a ship goes down with his ship” and calls people of this profession (*) quacks. Another one of these people accidentally kills Sir Danvers Carew after drinking a serum that transforms him into an evil counterpart. In a Gabriel Garcia Marquez novel, Juvenal Urbino has this profession and is committed to eradicating cholera. For 10 points, name this medical profession of characters like Henry Jekyll.
doctors [accept A Country Doctor; accept Doctor Mackenzie; accept Dr. Jekyll; accept Dr. Urbino]
4

152694-)
At the beginning of one novel, this character reads Thomas Bewick’s History of British Birds and is sent to the red room by Aunt Reed. Mr. Brocklewood calls this character a liar after she drops a slate, and this character befriends Helen Burns, who later dies of consumption. After leaving the (*) Lowood School, this character saves a man from a mysterious fire that is blamed on the nurse Grace Poole. Later, this character’s wedding veil is torn apart by Bertha Mason. For 10 points, name this governess of Thornfield Hall who marries Edward Rochester, the title character of a novel by Charlotte Bronte.
Jane Eyre [accept either underlined portion]
4

152714-)
One character in this novel shelters two orphans and the widow of his former business partner, Mrs. Gummidge, in his boathouse. The fiance of Ham runs off with James Steerforth in this novel, and both of those characters end up drowning in a storm at Yarmouth. The protagonist of this novel is sent to (*) Salem House after biting the hand of his stepfather, Mr. Murdstone, and later walks from London to Dover to live with his aunt Betsey Trotwood after staying with the Micawbers as a factory worker. The title character marries Agnes Wickfield after helping expose the villainous Uriah Heep in, for 10 points, what novel by Charles Dickens?
David Copperfield
4

152738-)
This poem addresses a subject “That leaves a heart high-sorrowful and cloyed” because of its “All breathing human passion far above.” One section of this poem asks “What men or gods are these?” and “What maidens loth?” to a (*) “Sylvan historian.” The narrator of this poem claims that “soft pipes, play on” because “Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard / Are sweeter.” This poem describes the title object as a “foster-child of silence and slow time,” whose “silent form” reminds man that “Beauty is truth, truth beauty.” For 10 points, name this poem about a title piece of ancient pottery by John Keats.
“Ode on a Grecian Urn”
4

152757-)
One character in this novel has his name crossed out of the family bible after he marries a woman behind his father’s back. That female character is sent a small piano sold at an estate auction. The protagonist of this novel entertains Lord Steyne at a charade party by performing (*) Clytemnestra, after which her husband Rawdon Crawley is arrested. The protagonist of this novel throws a dictionary out of a carriage after graduating from Miss Pinkerton’s Academy with Amelia Sedley, who marries George Osborne. For 10 points, name this novel about Becky Sharp, written by William Thackeray.
Vanity Fair: A Novel Without A Hero
4

152782-)
During one scene in this novel, the officer Tommy Dukes argues that individuality is overdeveloped, describing Arnold Hammond’s wife as “luggage.” A fake marriage between John Thomas and Lady Jane occurs in this novel, whose protagonist travels to Venice to see the artist (*) Duncan Forbes and secure a divorce. An affair with the playwright Michaelis happens early in this novel, before the title character is seen looking at the Wragby estate by the nurse Mrs. Bolton. Constance cheats on her husband Clifford with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors in, for 10 points, what novel by D.H. Lawrence?
Lady Chatterley's Lover
4

152795-)
In one of this author’s works, the main character employs a new valet named Curtiss and bequeaths a copy of Othello to the narrator. In a play by this author, a fake policeman attempts to strangle his former teacher at a snowed-in hotel; that play frequently uses the song “Three Blind Mice.” In another of this author’s novels, the unreliable narrator Dr. James (*) Sheppard is revealed to be the blackmailer of Mrs. Ferrars. A group of people discover that none of them knows U.N. Owen in one of this author’s works in which Dr. Armstrong helps Justice Wargrave fake his own death. A novel by this author of Curtain reveals that Ratchett is actually Cassetti, and twelve people are all complicit in his murder. For 10 points, name this author of characters like Hercule Poirot in detective fiction such as The Murder of Roger Ackroyd, And Then There Were None, and Murder on the Orient Express.
Agatha Christie &lt;Hao&gt;
5

152819-)
This poem’s protagonist had a namesake ‘pervigilium’ that was edited out by the poet. This poem asks if it is “worth it” to “have squeezed the universe into a ball / To roll it towards some overwhelming question,” and it describes a man who has “seen the eternal Footman hold my coat, and snicker.” This poem’s prelude begins “S’io credesse che mia risposta fosse.” [see-oh cred-ess-uh kay me-uh rees-pohs-tah foss-uh] Its protagonist has (*) “measured out my life with coffee spoons.” This poem describes “a yellow fog that rubs its back upon the window-panes” and begins “Let us go then you and I.” For 10 points, name this T.S. Eliot poem about an aging man who sees “the women come and go, talking of Michelangelo.”
The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock &lt;Carpenter&gt;
5

152821-)
A character in this play says that women “don’t seem to hold together like men” and reminisces about a girl described as “spread.” Later, that character finds a picture of eleven cricket players and is told to take up a hobby such as woodworking. At the beginning of this work, a toilet refuses to flush after its chain is pulled, and two characters discuss an old man who is run over by a truck and a girl who kills a cat. An argument erupts in this play over a football match between (*) Birmingham and Tottenham, and earlier, a character opens an envelope containing twelve matches. That character is grabbed by the throat after arguing about the semantics of the sentence “Light the kettle” in this work. The final of five notes sent by the title appliance in this work reads “Scampi,” and it ends as Ben is about to shoot Gus. For 10 points, name this absurdist play by Harold Pinter.
The Dumbwaiter &lt;Hao&gt;
5

152844-)
The protagonist of this novel receives the book “The Theory and Practice of Oligarchical Collectivism.” The state-sponsored media in this novel claims that there is an increase in the chocolate ration while a decrease actually occurs and praises a non-existent war hero known as Comrade Oglivy. Emmanuel Goldstein leads the Brotherhood, the political rival of the main political group in this novel. In this novel, the concept of cognitive dissonance is referred to as (*) “doublethink.” The Ministry of Love from this book, known as MiniLuv, ironically is responsible for the torture of the protagonist. The protagonist also engages in illegal actions with and later betrays his lover Julia. For 10 points, Winston Smith is the protagonist of what novel by George Orwell?
1984 &lt;Tummarakota&gt;
5

152858-)
One of the characters in this poem is described as having a “fading rose” on his cheeks and a lily on his brow. The opening stanza of this poem describes a lake where “the sedge has withered” and “no birds sing.” The sixth stanza of this poem describes a character who sees nothing but a lady “all day long.” That elusive lady is described as “a (*) faery’s child” with “wild” eyes and long hair. This poem asks “O what can ail thee, knight at arms” after which the knight responds by describing the story of the title figure. For 10 points, name this ballad about the dangers of obsession by John Keats.
“La Belle Dame Sans Merci” &lt;Parikh&gt;
5

152875-)
In one work set in this country, a mother despairingly asks why her "darlin son" was "riddled with bullets." In another work set in this country, a murder that takes place after a horse race is denounced, even though the town had previously praised the murderer after he told a bar about having killed that same person with a blow to the head. In one play set in this country, Mrs. Madigan angrily takes away a gramophone after learning that the main family will not actually be inheriting a lot of money thanks to the incompetence of the lawyer Charles Bentham, who also got Mary pregnant. (*) In that work, Pegeen is heartbroken after it is revealed that Christy Mahon didn’t actually kill his father, and the two leave the Mayo coast. For 10 points, name this setting of The Playboy of the Western World and Juno and the Paycock, the home of John Millington Synge and Sean O'Casey.
Ireland [or Eire]
5

152894-)
In this novel, a man who loses an election for chaplaincy is forced to support his friend, despite the two sharing a love interest. That man, Camden Farebrother, believes himself to be a poor clergyman, while another character is mocked for his beliefs about Parliamentary reform. A character in this novel gives her sister all but two pieces in her mother’s jewelry collection while another, Mr. (*) Featherstone, attempts to get Mary to alter his will. She refuses, leading Fred Vincy to approach her brother for money. The protagonist’s husband suffers a heart attack after their honeymoon in Rome and posthumously declares that if she marries his cousin, Will Ladislaw, her inheritance will be taken away. Reverend Causabon and Dorothea Brooke appear in, for 10 points, which novel about life in a small English town by George Eliot?
Middlemarch: A Story of Provincial Life &lt;Sharma&gt;
5

152920-)
A squire of this character named Gurth manages to escape from his former master and joins the jester Wamba in the forest. Before the events of the novel in which he appears, this character is disinherited by his father for joining the Crusades, and he is rescued from Torquilstone Castle by Robert Locksley’s band of outlaws. This character duels his rival (*) Brian de Bois-Guilbert at a tournament while disguised as the “Disinherited Knight.” Cedric of Rotherwood eventually allows this character to marry his daughter Lady Rowena, despite the fact that this character supported the Norman king Richard. For 10 points, name this title character of a novel by Sir Walter Scott.
Wilfred of Ivanhoe (accept either underlined name) &lt;Kodama&gt;
5

152939-)
A character in this work is said to possess the slowly weakening soul of an ancient Greek mathematician. A plan in this work involves blowing air onto raw onions to test sailors for the plague. The title character complains about being condemned for poisoning a clergyman’s cook, while another character is ordered to perform everything backwards after throwing her handkerchief at a disguised man selling medicine on stage. In this play, a disinherited son foils the title character’s plan to rape (*) Celia as Corvino, Corbaccio, and Voltore attempt to win the title character’s inheritance. The title character fakes his own death with his servant Mosca at his bedside. For 10 points, identify this play about a Venetian nobleman by Ben Jonson.
Volpone &lt;Sharma&gt;
5

152967-)
At the end of this novel, a path obscured by rocks prevents two characters from riding horseback side-by-side. One of those characters mistakenly assumes the identity of the other’s wife, leading the two to avoid one another until their rowboats collide. This novel’s protagonist becomes friends with a woman over a mutual dislike of the wife of the (*) Chief Civil Surgeon, Major Callendar. That woman’s guilt is symbolized by a repetitive sound, and she is later found to have died on a ship to England. The central conflict in this novel revolves around an incident after which Ronny Heaslop decides to break off his engagement as suggested by his mother. Mrs. Moore. For 10 points, name this novel in which Dr. Aziz is accused of rape by Adela Quested in the Marabar Caves, written by E.M. Forster.
A Passage to India &lt;Sharma&gt;
5

152979-)
In a novel by this author, one boy is accidentally shot in the foot by a starter’s pistol; the narrator casually mentions later that he died of gangrene. That novel’s protagonist goes to jail after taking the fall for a South American prostitution ring run by his fiancee, Margot Beste-Chetwynde. This author wrote about Paul Pennyfeather’s expulsion for a pants-less run through campus in one novel, and about Brenda cheating on Tony Last in another work. He created a (*) teddy-bear-carrying character who throws up in the narrator’s window and takes him to the title estate of the Catholic Marchmain family. For 10 points, name this author of Decline and Fall and A Handful of Dust, who wrote about Sebastian Flyte and Charles Ryder in Brideshead Revisited.
Evelyn Waugh &lt;Carlson&gt;
5

153045-)
This man’s first words are an order to an officer to “look to that young lady. Help the gentleman to take her out” because she is about to faint. Later, he asks that woman “Before I go, may I kiss her” and tells her “a life you love.” Earlier, he pleaded that woman to “hold me in your mind, at some quiet times, as ardent and sincere.” Before the climax of the novel, this man walks the entire night repeating “I am the resurrection and the life, saith the Lord” to himself. This man’s boss is referred to as “the lion” to this man’s (*) “jackal.” For 10 points, name this man who looks like Charles Darnay, loves Lucie Manette, and states “It is a far, far better thing that I do, than I have ever done,” as he goes to the guillotine, a protagonist of A Tale of Two Cities.
Sydney Carton [accept either underlined answer] &lt;Carpenter&gt;
5

153068-)
One of this author's protagonists calls himself a “profiteer in mutilation and murder” and believes that "the worst of our crimes is poverty”; that man’s daughter by Lady Britomart is wooed by Adolphus Cusins. In one play by this author, the protagonist is kidnapped by a group of Spanish brigands led by Mendoza and has a dream featuring Dona Ana and the commander; that section is (*) "Don Juan in Hell." This author, who wrote about Jack Tanner and Ann Whitefield in Man and Superman, also created such characters as Andrew Undershaft, who claims that his factory town will be more beneficial than his daughter's work at the Salvation Army, and Henry Higgins, who teaches the Cockney flower girl Eliza Doolittle to speak like a duchess. For 10 points, name this author of Major Barbara and Pygmalion.
George Bernard Shaw
5

153073-)
A man in this play responds “come sit on me” after he is called a “join’d stool.” One character in this play is persuaded to make the claim that the sun is the moon. This play begins with an introduction involving a nobleman and a drunk audience member named (*) Christopher Sly, who is tricked into thinking he is part of the nobility. In Act III of this play, two characters try to woo a woman by disguising themselves as a Latin teacher and a music teacher. That woman in this play is Bianca, the younger daughter of Baptista Minola, who eventually marries Lucentio in secret. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play centered on the courtship of Petruchio and the title woman, Katherina.
The Taming of the Shrew &lt;Parikh&gt;
5

153092-)
Description acceptable. An essay titled for this object describes a dinner at the “Lobster Smack” Inn where men like Captain S. and various other sailors spin yarns about their time at sea. The narrator symbolically links this object to a similar one “rigid as a concertina” under a “sky the colour of smoke,” with which a legionary commander might have navigated “the very end of the world.” The author’s friend G. F. W. Hope inspired the “Director of Companies” aboard this vehicle, who says “We have lost the first of the (*) ebb” as another passenger sits “in the pose of the meditating Buddha.” Men on this boat silently gaze at the river in the “august light of abiding memories” before one of them, sitting cross-legged and resembling an idol, suddenly states, “And this also has been one of the dark places of the earth,” launching into a story about his time captaining a steamship going up the Congo River. For 10 points, the Nellie is the name for what “cruising yawl” on the Thames, from which Marlow narrates a novel by Joseph Conrad?
the boat on which Heart of Darkness is set [or anything that includes both boat and Heart of Darkness; or the Nellie before it is mentioned] &lt;Long Fiction&gt;
9

153107-)
Upon surveying the library in an apartment, the speaker of this set of poems imagines the “centuries of books unwritten” in this “still unexcavated hole / called civilization, this act of translation, this half-world.” One of these poems recalls a night the speaker spent “vomiting into plastic bags / for three hours between St. Pierre and Miquelon.” The eleventh poem in this sequence observes that “Every peak is a crater. This is the law of volcanoes, / making them eternally and visibly female.” The speaker declares that “a touch is enough to let us know / we’re not (*) alone in the universe,” in a poem from this sequence in which she foresees recording “in any chronicle of the world we share” that “we were lovers of one gender.” This sequence, which forms the middle section of the 1978 collection The Dream of a Common Language, includes an erotic unnumbered “Floating Poem” in which the speaker describes “Your traveled, generous thighs / between which my whole face has come and come.” For 10 points, name this sequence of poems by Adrienne Rich celebrating lesbian love.
Twenty-One Love Poems [prompt on The Dream of a Common Language before it is read] &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153143-)
The speaker of a twentieth century poem mocks Wordsworth’s line “The lyre should animate but not mislead the pen” so as to admonish this other writer to “avoid speech figurative / And set out your matter / As I do, in straight simple phrases.” In a letter to René Taupin, a poet admitted his debt to this earlier writer with the mixed-language line “überhaupt ich stamm aus [this man]; pourquoi nier son père?” This earlier author’s “trick” is said to be “the showman’s booth” because “half [his] dates are out” and he “mix[es] [his] eras” in his “immortal passage” mentioning a “great font.” The speaker of that poem wonders if he should take this writer’s “whole (*) bag of tricks” and “quirks and tweeks” before chiding this writer for suggesting that the “modern world / needs such a rag-bag to stuff all its thought in.” The second Canto opens by asking this writer to “hang it all,” for “there can be but the one ‘Sordello.’” For 10 points, name this Victorian poet who inspired Ezra Pound’s collection Personae by writing a series of dramatic monologues.
Robert Browning &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153150-)
This author interpolated a song beginning: “Thou’rt passing from the lake’s green side” into a poem in which it is sung by a Native American man comforting his adopted English daughter as her “lovely sleep… melt[s] into death.” This poet included ekphrastic descriptions of the Apollo Belvedere and other artifacts plundered by Napoleon in a poem celebrating “The Restoration of the Works of Art to Italy.” Elizabeth Bishop wrote a parody about a boy trying to recite a poem by this author, in which “wreathing fires” “caught the flag on high” and “stream’d above… / like banners in the sky.” This author wrote sympathetic poems about historical (*) women such as Arabella Stuart and Juana of Castile in her major collection, Records of Woman. In her best known poem, a boy dies waiting in vain for his “father’s word” relieve him of duty as he stands “on the burning deck” of a ship at the Battle of the Nile. For 10 points, name this popular 19th century female English poet of “Casabianca.”
Felicia (Dorothea) Hemans &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153181-)
A text criticizing the “horrid crimes” of this profession relays a story in which one of its members jealously damages a person’s entrails. A key primary source on this profession discusses James Purrington’s murder of his entire family and comments on its author’s relationship with Daniel Cony in the town of Halowell. Nicholas Culpeper wrote a Directory for members of this profession, one of whom was nicknamed “The Scholar” and wrote a Collection of Secrets that outlined the technique of podalic (*) version. The Abrégé is an early French textbook by a member of this profession who invented a stuffed fabric and leather device called “The Machine” to train people in this profession. Angélique de Cordray was a member of this profession, which was ranked as the second-most wicked behind concubines in the Malleus Maleficarum. Laurel Thatcher Ulrich used the diaries of a member of this profession named Martha Ballard to write a book titled for one of these people’s “tale.” For 10 points, name these people, traditionally women, trained to help with childbirth.
midwife or midwives [accept A Midwife’s Tale; prompt on nurses, doctors, or answers describing people who help deliver children] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153196-)
This author bastardized the refrain of a song from James Thomson’s Sophonisba in a play featuring a footnote that then accuses Thomson of stealing that very same “beautiful line.” The Italian castrato Signior Opera is chosen as a mate by the Goddess of Nonsense in a play within a play by this author. This author had his frequent pseudonym Scriblerus Secundus field questions from the players putting on the title production in his play The Welsh Opera. The title character of a play by this author defeats a rebel army led by his romantic rival Lord Grizzle, but is then (*) swallowed by a large red cow on his way back to King Arthur’s castle. This author of The Author’s Farce wrote The Tragedy of Tragedies, an expanded version of his play about a tiny character from English folklore, before retiring from the theater entirely in the wake of the censorship brought about by the Licensing Act of 1737. For 10 points, name this author of Tom Thumb who subsequently wrote a novel about a foundling taken in by Squire Allworthy.
Henry Fielding &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153207-)
Questions surrounding the authorship of some of these texts were deemed a product of “purest prejudice” in an excursus to a 1984 “Critical Study” by Peter Dronke. Following their discovery in a 15th-century monastic source, over 100 fragments of these texts were published by Constant Mews. These texts are traditionally divided into four labelled “personal” and three “of direction.” The first full vernacular translation of these texts was made by (*) Jean de Meun, who recounted their context in the Roman de la Rose. A fictional one of these texts was imagined in a poem that ends with the line “He best can paint them who can feel them most.” The first of these texts is addressed to Philintus and recounts the birth of a boy named Astrolabe and the rage of Astrolabe’s great-uncle Fulbert. The Historia Calamitatum is usually counted as the first of—for 10 points—what texts exchanged between the author Sic et Non and his lover?
letters of Héloïse and Peter Abélard [accept names in either order; accept synonyms for “letter” like epistles; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153211-)
Note to moderator: please look over the answerline before starting to read this question. Description acceptable. The phrase “you could not hear God thundering” is used repeatedly to describe the noise of battles toward the end of this book. This book notes that it is “no animal’s nature to live in fire” in a section that relates its subject’s discovery that the so-called “Salamander” is actually asbestos during a visit to a mine. Henry Yule compiled an 1871 edition of this book largely based on various copies of its “F” (*) manuscript. Early in this book, a diplomat named Cogatai falls ill, so its subject leaves him behind and arrive in Acre with the help of a golden tablet a year after the death of Clement IV. According to a later tradition, this book came into when, after being captured at the Battle of Curzola, its author dictated it to Rustichello da Pisa in a Genoese prison. For 10 points, name this work notable for its descriptions of “Cathay” and the court of Kublai Khan, a travelogue based on the stories of an Italian explorer.
The Travels of Marco Polo [accept any of the following: Book of the Marvels of the World; Description of the World; The Million; Il Milione; Oriente Poliano; Devisement du Monde; Livre des Merveilles du Monde; also accept descriptive answers as long as they mention Marco Polo and the fact that the work is about his travels or journeys; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153226-)
In his Charles Eliot Norton lecture, the author of this poem jokingly suggests prefacing a second edition with a passage from Don Juan reading: “the fact is I have nothing planned / Except perhaps to be a moment merry.” This poem considers the “torment / Of love unsatisfied" and “The greater torment / Of love satisfied,” in a portion of its second section composed of four to seven syllable lines. This poem almost exactly quotes Shakespeare’s sonnet 29 with its phrase “Desiring this man’s gift, and that man’s scope,” which is followed by its speaker admitting: “I no longer (*) strive to strive towards such things,” and asking “Why should the aged eagle stretch its wings?” Later editions of this poem remove the dedication to the author’s wife Vivienne, who inspired the “veiled sister" in a garden whom the speaker beseeches to “let my cry come unto Thee” in its sixth and final section. This poem refrains a ballate by Guido Cavalcanti in its opening lines, which repeat: “Because I do not hope to turn again.” For 10 points, name this T.S. Eliot poem about his conversion to Anglicanism.
“Ash-Wednesday” &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153275-)
In one poem, this character describes a vision of a carriage in which “Great-bladdered Emer” rides with “her violent man” by her side. An unusually structured sonnet featuring this character comprises two seven-line stanzas, each ending: “Fol-de-rol, fol-de-rol.” A poem in which this character states, “My body makes no moan / But sings on” ends each of its four stanzas with the line, “All things remain in god.” This character thinks, “love is just a skein unwound / Between the dusk and dawn,” in a poem titled for her sexual encounters with Jack the Journeyman. The refrain “Love is like a (*) lion’s tooth” ends the three stanzas of a poem in which this woman “Grown Old Looks at the Dancers.” The collection Words for Music Perhaps opens with a series of poems narrated by this woman, including one in which she asserts that “Fair and foul are near of kin / and fair needs foul,” because “love has pitched his mansion in / The place of excrement.” For 10 points, name this ribald old woman who stars in eight poems by William Butler Yeats, including one in which she “Talks with the Bishop.”
Crazy Jane [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153290-)
This author interpolated a song beginning: “Thou’rt passing from the lake’s green side” into a poem in which it is sung by a Native American man comforting his adopted English daughter as her “lovely sleep… melt[s] into death.” This poet included ekphrastic descriptions of the Apollo Belvedere and other artifacts plundered by Napoleon in a poem celebrating “The Restoration of the Works of Art to Italy.” Elizabeth Bishop wrote a parody about a boy trying to recite a poem by this author, in which “wreathing fires” “caught the flag on high” and “stream’d above… / like banners in the sky.” This author wrote sympathetic poems about historical (*) women such as Arabella Stuart and Juana of Castile in her major collection, Records of Woman. In her best known poem, a boy dies waiting in vain for his “father’s word” relieve him of duty as he stands “on the burning deck” of a ship at the Battle of the Nile. For 10 points, name this popular 19th century female English poet of “Casabianca.”
Felicia (Dorothea) Hemans &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153321-)
A text criticizing the “horrid crimes” of this profession relays a story in which one of its members jealously damages a person’s entrails. A key primary source on this profession discusses James Purrington’s murder of his entire family and comments on its author’s relationship with Daniel Cony in the town of Halowell. Nicholas Culpeper wrote a Directory for members of this profession, one of whom was nicknamed “The Scholar” and wrote a Collection of Secrets that outlined the technique of podalic (*) version. The Abrégé is an early French textbook by a member of this profession who invented a stuffed fabric and leather device called “The Machine” to train people in this profession. Angélique de Cordray was a member of this profession, which was ranked as the second-most wicked behind concubines in the Malleus Maleficarum. Laurel Thatcher Ulrich used the diaries of a member of this profession named Martha Ballard to write a book titled for one of these people’s “tale.” For 10 points, name these people, traditionally women, trained to help with childbirth.
midwife or midwives [accept A Midwife’s Tale; prompt on nurses, doctors, or answers describing people who help deliver children] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153347-)
Questions surrounding the authorship of some of these texts were deemed a product of “purest prejudice” in an excursus to a 1984 “Critical Study” by Peter Dronke. Following their discovery in a 15th-century monastic source, over 100 fragments of these texts were published by Constant Mews. These texts are traditionally divided into four labelled “personal” and three “of direction.” The first full vernacular translation of these texts was made by (*) Jean de Meun, who recounted their context in the Roman de la Rose. A fictional one of these texts was imagined in a poem that ends with the line “He best can paint them who can feel them most.” The first of these texts is addressed to Philintus and recounts the birth of a boy named Astrolabe and the rage of Astrolabe’s great-uncle Fulbert. The Historia Calamitatum is usually counted as the first of—for 10 points—what texts exchanged between the author Sic et Non and his lover?
letters of Héloïse and Peter Abélard [accept names in either order; accept synonyms for “letter” like epistles; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153351-)
Note to moderator: please look over the answerline before starting to read this question. Description acceptable. The phrase “you could not hear God thundering” is used repeatedly to describe the noise of battles toward the end of this book. This book notes that it is “no animal’s nature to live in fire” in a section that relates its subject’s discovery that the so-called “Salamander” is actually asbestos during a visit to a mine. Henry Yule compiled an 1871 edition of this book largely based on various copies of its “F” (*) manuscript. Early in this book, a diplomat named Cogatai falls ill, so its subject leaves him behind and arrive in Acre with the help of a golden tablet a year after the death of Clement IV. According to a later tradition, this book came into when, after being captured at the Battle of Curzola, its author dictated it to Rustichello da Pisa in a Genoese prison. For 10 points, name this work notable for its descriptions of “Cathay” and the court of Kublai Khan, a travelogue based on the stories of an Italian explorer.
The Travels of Marco Polo [accept any of the following: Book of the Marvels of the World; Description of the World; The Million; Il Milione; Oriente Poliano; Devisement du Monde; Livre des Merveilles du Monde; also accept descriptive answers as long as they mention Marco Polo and the fact that the work is about his travels or journeys; prompt on partial answer] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153366-)
In his Charles Eliot Norton lecture, the author of this poem jokingly suggests prefacing a second edition with a passage from Don Juan reading: “the fact is I have nothing planned / Except perhaps to be a moment merry.” This poem considers the “torment / Of love unsatisfied" and “The greater torment / Of love satisfied,” in a portion of its second section composed of four to seven syllable lines. This poem almost exactly quotes Shakespeare’s sonnet 29 with its phrase “Desiring this man’s gift, and that man’s scope,” which is followed by its speaker admitting: “I no longer (*) strive to strive towards such things,” and asking “Why should the aged eagle stretch its wings?” Later editions of this poem remove the dedication to the author’s wife Vivienne, who inspired the “veiled sister" in a garden whom the speaker beseeches to “let my cry come unto Thee” in its sixth and final section. This poem refrains a ballate by Guido Cavalcanti in its opening lines, which repeat: “Because I do not hope to turn again.” For 10 points, name this T.S. Eliot poem about his conversion to Anglicanism.
“Ash-Wednesday” &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153375-)
In one poem, this character describes a vision of a carriage in which “Great-bladdered Emer” rides with “her violent man” by her side. An unusually structured sonnet featuring this character comprises two seven-line stanzas, each ending: “Fol-de-rol, fol-de-rol.” A poem in which this character states, “My body makes no moan / But sings on” ends each of its four stanzas with the line, “All things remain in god.” This character thinks, “love is just a skein unwound / Between the dusk and dawn,” in a poem titled for her sexual encounters with Jack the Journeyman. The refrain “Love is like a (*) lion’s tooth” ends the three stanzas of a poem in which this woman “Grown Old Looks at the Dancers.” The collection Words for Music Perhaps opens with a series of poems narrated by this woman, including one in which she asserts that “Fair and foul are near of kin / and fair needs foul,” because “love has pitched his mansion in / The place of excrement.” For 10 points, name this ribald old woman who stars in eight poems by William Butler Yeats, including one in which she “Talks with the Bishop.”
Crazy Jane [prompt on partial answer] &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153394-)
A character with this profession corrects the lyrics of a song about Granuaile while speaking with a Ragged Man, and is assisted by men simply called X and B. In a play, Mairtin helps dig up a grave while watched by his brother, a character with this profession who drowns himself in the lake where bags of bones are sunk by Mick Dowd. Sympathies for Jimmy Walsh cause a character to turn down a hundred-pound reward in a play about a man in this profession. Tom Hanlon, a member of this profession, possesses Oona’s locket in A (*) Skull in Connemara. A character with this profession mails a cash box which turns out to be a black box filled with omnium. In later novel, a character with this profession takes the protagonist to an underground chamber where cigarettes doesn’t burn down and time stands still, titled “Eternity.” That novel titled for this profession follows a scholar of de Selby’s who murders Mathers with his friend Divney. For 10 points, name this profession which titles a Flann O’Brien novel about a “third” one.
policeman [accept obvious equivalents] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153414-)
A character with this profession corrects the lyrics of a song about Granuaile while speaking with a Ragged Man, and is assisted by men simply called X and B. In a play, Mairtin helps dig up a grave while watched by his brother, a character with this profession who drowns himself in the lake where bags of bones are sunk by Mick Dowd. Sympathies for Jimmy Walsh cause a character to turn down a hundred-pound reward in a play about a man in this profession. Tom Hanlon, a member of this profession, possesses Oona’s locket in A (*) Skull in Connemara. A character with this profession mails a cash box which turns out to be a black box filled with omnium. In later novel, a character with this profession takes the protagonist to an underground chamber where cigarettes doesn’t burn down and time stands still, titled “Eternity.” That novel titled for this profession follows a scholar of de Selby’s who murders Mathers with his friend Divney. For 10 points, name this profession which titles a Flann O’Brien novel about a “third” one.
policeman [accept obvious equivalents] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153432-)
Note: Author and type of work required.The recommendation to not “look down into the street at the song of the plaintive flute” in one of these works illustrates their author’s role as “urbane and experienced consultant” in matters of love, according to a commentary on these works by Margaret Hubbard and R. G. M. Nisbet. In one of these works, a love interest notes that even though a rival is “more beautiful than a star and you more unstable than cork,” she would choose the author. One of these works by this author asks a figure who arrives “aloft on purple swans” to choose a younger person, and closes with an image of the speaker dreaming of pursuing (*) Ligurinus through Mars’ field. The first nine of these works by this author are often denoted with the term “Parade,” and the first three books of these works were published eight years before the fourth book. One of these works describes their author’s creations as “higher than the Pyramids’ regal structures” that “no wild north wind can destroy” because they are a “monument more lasting than bronze.” For 10 points, name these lyric poems by a Roman poet, the original source of the phrase “carpe diem.”
Horace’s Odes [accept more specific answers like love odes by Horace, prompt on poems by Horace] &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153436-)
After a publication of this name accepted the first poems by Francis Thompson, its editor Wilfrid Meynell paid to have the poet treated for opium addiction, during which time Thompson wrote “The Hound of Heaven.” A character criticizes this concept by calling it “the home-made pottery crowd, the organic husbandry crowd, the recorder playing crowd, the Esperanto.” G. K. Chesterton’s essay about A Midsummer Night’s Dream extols the play as the “last glimpse” of this concept. In an essay celebrating cricket and other (*) traditional rural pastimes, William Hazlitt popularized the rallying cry: “St George for [this concept]!” After receiving a black eye from Bertrand for sleeping with Christine Callaghan, a character drinks excessively and subsequently mocks Professor Welch and passes out during his public lecture about this subject. The title character of Kingsley Amis’s Lucky Jim studies, for 10 points, what supposedly idyllic period of a certain country’s medieval past?
Merry England [or Merrie England] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153458-)
The protagonists of A.S. Byatt’s Morpho Eugenia read a sonnet by this poet that calls ants the “deformed remnants of the fairy-days.” The speaker of a poem by this author witnesses “Hill-tops like hot iron glitter bright in the sun / And the rivers we’re eying burn to gold as they run.” This author wrote fondly of wanting to see his childhood sweetheart Mary Joyce, unaware that she had burned to death in a freak accident years ago, in his Journey Out of Essex, a diary he kept during the eighty-mile (*) walk home he took over four days from an asylum in High Beach. This “Northamptonshire Peasant Poet” wrote of wanting to sleep as he “in childhood sweetly slept, / Untroubling and untroubled” in his best-known poem, which laments: “My friends forsake me like a memory lost: / I am the self-consumer of my woes.” For 10 points, name this Romantic poet who wrote poems such as “I am!” while spending the last twenty-three years of his life institutionalized for mental illness.
John Clare &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153487-)
A 1992 study by John Wiltshire examines the frequent references to illness and good health in this author’s novels. This author’s reputation as a satirist was largely established by D. W. Harding’s essay “Regulated Hatred.” A 1975 book by Marilyn Butler asserts that, rather than being isolated from contemporary events as usually supposed, this author brought a conservative perspective to the “war of ideas.” The public at large was introduced to this writer through a selectively-edited Memoir published by (*) her nephew James Edward, which portrayed her as sweet-natured and uninterested in literary success. An essay about this author “and Empire” reads colonialist sentiments into the “dead silence” of one of her heroines upon hearing about slave labor on her uncle Thomas Bertram’s plantation in Antigua. For 10 points, Edward Said examined the imperialism implicit in what author’s novel Mansfield Park?
Jane Austen &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153506-)
Description acceptable. This woman drew from her own miscarriage in penning a poetic plea for the wicked to “melt… as the embryo, / whose vital band / Breaks ere it holds.” She concluded: “Thus do we weep and wail, and wear our eyes, / Mourning in other’s, our own miserie,” in a poem occasioned by a relative’s death on the battlefield, titled “The dolefull lay of Clorinda.” This woman used 128 verse forms throughout an undertaking guided by the commentaries of John Calvin. This aunt of Mary (*) Wroth maintained a chemistry laboratory at Wilton House, where she cultivated a circle of poets that included Ben Jonson. This influential English-language translator of Psalms 44 to 150 is mentioned in the full title of a prose romance in which Basilius attempts to avoid the predictions of the Delphic oracle by abandoning the dukedom of Arcadia. For 10 points, name this Countess of Pembroke, a major early female English poet whose brother wrote the sonnet sequence Astrophil and Stella.
Mary Sidney [or Mary Herbert; or the Countess of Pembroke before “Countess of Pembroke” is read; or Philip Sidney’s sister; prompt on just Sidney] &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153519-)
Note: genre and author required. Coleridge scribbled the words “Worthy almost of Shakespeare!” in his copy of one of these works, in response to its assertion that “that world which finds itself truly in an Autumn, in itself, finds itself in a spring, in our imaginations.” The “Easter" work of this type notes that we are prisoners within “our Mothers’ wombs”, are born as “Prisoners still, though within larger walls; and then all our life is but a going out to the place of Execution.” The author’s son compiled a three-volume edition of these 160 works, including one predicting that the “ambitious man shall have no satisfaction… nor the (*) poorest receive any contentment in being made equal to princes, for they shall be equal but in dust.” In his biography of their author, Izaak Walton describes how by delivering the last of these works, “Death’s Duel,” while fatally ill, the author had conducted his own funeral. For 10 points, identify these homilies given by a Dean of Saint Paul’s Cathedral who wrote the Holy Sonnets.
John Donne’s sermons &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153523-)
An intricate line of poetry that Anthony Hecht suggested mapping with concentric circles invokes this substance using a triple possessive phrase that is pitted against the phrase “our thoughts’ chivalry’s throng’s Lord.” This substance is mentioned twice in the title of a poem that observes that “Each mortal thing does one thing and the/ same… Crying Whát I dó is me: for that I came.” The disappearance of this substance “in a flash, at a trumpet crash,” stirs that poem’s speaker to realize that “I am all at once what Christ is, | since he was / what I am, and / This Jack, joke, poor potsherd, | patch, / (*) matchwood, immortal diamond, / Is immortal diamond.” A metaphorical instance of this substance “breaks from thee then, a billion / Times told lovelier, more dangerous” in “The Windhover.” The title of a caudate sonnet about the “comforts of the Resurrection” indicates “that Nature” is this “Heraclitean" substance. For 10 points, name this substance that surrounds both “kingfishers" and “dragonflies” in a poem by Gerard Manley Hopkins, for whom it symbolized religious passion.
fire [or flame; or other synonyms] &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153539-)
The two-part Prelude describes a form of this concept “more active even than ‘best society,’” alluding to Adam’s speech in Book IX of Paradise Lost. In A Defense of Poetry, Shelley deems the poet “a nightingale, who sits in darkness and sings to cheer” this feeling “with sweet sounds.” In a sonnet, Keats tells this feeling that “if I must with thee dwell, / Let it not be among the jumbled heap / Of murky buildings.” The speaker asks: “And what were thou, and earth, and stars, and / sea, / If to the human mind’s imaginings / (*) Silence and [this feeling] were vacancy?” at the end of the poem “Mont Blanc.” Coleridge’s “Frost at Midnight" describes a form of this mental state “which suits / Abstruser musings.” In “I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud," the daffodils are said to “flash upon that inward eye / Which is the bliss of” this feeling. Percy Bysshe Shelley allegorized his poetic muse as Alastor, or the Spirit of, for 10 points, what state of mind evoked by a “reaper" in a Wordsworth poem?
solitude [or the state of being solitary] &lt;Poetry&gt;
9

153558-)
In a novel about this woman, she delivers a posthumous monologue dispelling the rumor that she cried out for blood while sleepwalking like Lady Macbeth. In her teens, this woman performed tableaux vivants at the “Temple of Health,” a facility where couples lay down on a bed and were administered electric shocks to improve fertility. This woman draped herself in layers of peasant dresses and shawls and imitated the poses of classical women such as Medea and Cleopatra, thus originating the genre of “attitudes” or “mimoplastic art.” This woman recounts her life story to fellow (*) inmates at a debtor’s prison, in a film in which she is played by Vivien Leigh opposite Laurence Olivier. This protagonist of Susan Sontag’s The Volcano Lover and long-time model for George Romney was newly married to the British Ambassador to the Kingdom of Naples, when she met an armless veteran fresh off his victory at the Battle of the Nile. For 10 points, name this woman who served as Horatio Nelson’s mistress until his death.
Emma Hamilton [or Emma, Lady Hamilton; or Amy Lyon; or Emma Hart] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153580-)
In a novel about this woman, she delivers a posthumous monologue dispelling the rumor that she cried out for blood while sleepwalking like Lady Macbeth. In her teens, this woman performed tableaux vivants at the “Temple of Health,” a facility where couples lay down on a bed and were administered electric shocks to improve fertility. This woman draped herself in layers of peasant dresses and shawls and imitated the poses of classical women such as Medea and Cleopatra, thus originating the genre of “attitudes” or “mimoplastic art.” This woman recounts her life story to fellow (*) inmates at a debtor’s prison, in a film in which she is played by Vivien Leigh opposite Laurence Olivier. This protagonist of Susan Sontag’s The Volcano Lover and long-time model for George Romney was newly married to the British Ambassador to the Kingdom of Naples, when she met an armless veteran fresh off his victory at the Battle of the Nile. For 10 points, name this woman who served as Horatio Nelson’s mistress until his death.
Emma Hamilton [or Emma, Lady Hamilton; or Amy Lyon; or Emma Hart] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

153639-)
In a play, a widow asks another woman to perform this activity by telling her to “lie…with me,” so they can have “whole nights of mirth together.” A play titled for this activity is framed as a dream by Ignatius of Loyola’s servant “Error,” and premiered with William Rowley playing a caricature of the “Fat” clergyman Marco Antonio de Dominis. The widow Livia comments in double entendre about the Duke’s seduction of Bianca while performing this activity in Act 2 of (*) Women Beware Women. Thomas Middleton may have been banned from writing for the stage for the rest of his life after he wrote a smash hit play titled for this activity. That play inspired a section of a poem titled for this activity, which includes the declaration “My nerves are bad tonight,” the line “O O O O that Shakespeherian Rag,” and many all-caps exhortations to “HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME.” The second part of T.S. Eliot’s The Waste Land is titled for a “A Game of”—for 10 points—what activity?
playing chess [accept A Game at Chess or “A Game of Chess”] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153656-)
Charles Marowitz’s infamous 1973 adaptation of this play includes a dream sequence in which a woman is sodomized on stage. Charles Johnson wrote an anti-Jacobite parody of this play by making one of its characters a drunk cobbler from Preston. A woman simply says “I am transformed to stone” instead of delivering her long concluding speech in which she realizes that “our lances are but straws” in David Garrick’s three-act condensation of this play, which is named for its (*) two main characters and was the typical version that was performed through the end of the nineteenth century. An anonymous play entered in the 1594 Stationers’ Register with a nearly identical title and plot likely plagiarized this play, though it omits the minor Paduan suitor Gremio. In this play’s framing “induction,” a lord dresses up the drunk beggar Christopher Sly. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play in which Petruchio torments Katharina into being an ideal wife.
The Taming of the Shrew &lt;Drama&gt;
9

153659-)
In a play, a widow asks another woman to perform this activity by telling her to “lie…with me,” so they can have “whole nights of mirth together.” A play titled for this activity is framed as a dream by Ignatius of Loyola’s servant “Error,” and premiered with William Rowley playing a caricature of the “Fat” clergyman Marco Antonio de Dominis. The widow Livia comments in double entendre about the Duke’s seduction of Bianca while performing this activity in Act 2 of (*) Women Beware Women. Thomas Middleton may have been banned from writing for the stage for the rest of his life after he wrote a smash hit play titled for this activity. That play inspired a section of a poem titled for this activity, which includes the declaration “My nerves are bad tonight,” the line “O O O O that Shakespeherian Rag,” and many all-caps exhortations to “HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME.” The second part of T.S. Eliot’s The Waste Land is titled for a “A Game of”—for 10 points—what activity?
playing chess [accept A Game at Chess or “A Game of Chess”] &lt;Miscellaneous Lit&gt;
9

153709-)
One character in this work warns another of “professional jealousy” after the character is to be named superintendent of Fever Hospital. Another character in this work dies with his two wills intact, eventually leaving his money to Joshua Rigg. In this novel, John Raffles blackmails a wealthy man with a secret about the man’s fortune. One character in this novel is writing (*) The Key to all Mythologies and rebuffs his wife’s attempts to help him, and this novel covers the career of Lydgate and the courtship of Mary Garth. For ten points, name this novel about Dorothea Brooke, a “study of provincial life” by George Eliot.
Middlemarch, A Study of Provincial Life
3

153711-)
The Shaper tells this character a story about Scyld Scefing in a John Gardner novel written from his perspective. In his original appearance, which is part of the Nowell Codex, this character’s arm is ripped off and hung from the rafters of Heorot, a (*) mead-hall that this character attacks every night. This character’s mother retaliates against the Danes for his death. Both this character and his mother are monstrous descendants of Cain who are killed by a hero with the strength of 30 men. For 10 points, name this marsh monster that is Beowulf’s first enemy.
Grendel HALFTIME
3

153722-)
One character in this play commands "Out, vile jelly," in reference to a character that says, “As flies to wanton boys are we to the gods.” In this play, one character calls himself “Tom O’Bedlam” after being robbed of his birthright. The King of France (*) marries a character in this play despite her being disinherited. Another character in this play tries to commit suicide, but his son Edgar saves him by leading him off an imaginary cliff. For ten points, name this Shakespearean play about the titular king who divided his kingdom between two thankless daughters, Goneril and Regan, and cast out his youngest daughter Cordelia.
King Lear
3

153730-)
This author wrote that “the she-bear thus accosted rends the peasant tooth” in his poem “The Female of the Species.” In a short story by this author, Taffimai Metallumi delivers a picture message to her mother. This author wrote of a “lazarushian-leather” man serving (*) water to English soldiers in Gunga Din, and in this man’s most famous work, the speaker recounts a hypothetical game of pitch-and-toss and ends by saying “you’ll be a man my son!” For ten points, name this author of Just So Stories, The Jungle Book, and If.
Rudyard Kipling
3

153794-)
One of these characters remarks that “loss of virtue in a female is irretrievable,” one of her many vain musings. One of these characters remarks “What are men to mountains and rocks?” after learning about a proposed vacation to the Lake District. At a dinner scene in (*) Netherfield Hall, one of these characters is told to “give the other girls a chance” after ostentatiously playing the piano-forte. One of these characters catches a cold while travelling in the rain to meet her future husband. For ten points, name these characters who marry Mr. Bingley, Mr. Wickham, and Mr. Fitzwilliam Darcy in Jane Austen’s Pride and Prejudice.
the Bennet Sisters HALFTIME
3

153860-)
Section 42 of a poem by this writer says “His voice in all her music, from the moan” and says that the soul of the title figure “beacons from the abode where the Eternal are.” Another poem by this writer says to the title figure, “Teach me half the gladness / That thy brain must know,” and (*) “Hail to thee, blithe Spirit!” This poet also wrote that “Two vast and trunkless legs of stone / Stand in the desert” in a poem whose title figure says to “Look on my Works, ye Mighty, and despair!” For ten points, name this poet of Adonaïs, “To a Skylark,” and “Ozymandias.”
Percy Bysshe Shelley
3

153869-)
In a work by this writer, one character tricks another into killing her by telling him that she has an ointment that can protect a person from getting wounded when stabbed. In that work, the title character burns down the city where his love died. The prologue of another work by this writer is narrated by a caricature of Machiavelli. In that work, the title character kills his daughter (*) Abigail after she converts to Christianity. The title character of that work ends up being betrayed by his slave Ithamore and dies in a cauldron. For ten points, name this Elizabethan playwright of Tamburlaine the Great, The Jew of Malta, and Doctor Faustus.
Christopher Marlowe
3

153892-)
This work contains a reference to J.K. Huysmans’ “Against Nature” that the protagonist says “poisoned him.” One character in this work is called “Prince Charming” by another character, an actress named Sybil Vane. The central object of this novel disappoints its creator because it shows too much (*) feeling for the subject. The subject of that object eventually kills the creator, Basil Hallward, after he sees the now hideous titular object. For ten points, name this novel about a cursed artwork that bears the burden of age and ruin while the subject stays young and beautiful, a novel by Oscar Wilde.
The Picture of Dorian Gray
3

153963-)
This person is credited with the phrase “Pandora’s Box” after a mistranslating Hesiod's Pandora. This thinker wrote Manual of a Christian Knight urging people to look beyond the rites of religion and penned Education of a Christian Prince as advice for Emperor Charles V. This man assessed the need for church reform in his Sileni Alcibiadis, though he condemned Martin Luther in his (*) De Libero Arbitrio. This man’s most famous work satirizes Catholic doctrine and superstition through support for the titular being who is nursed by “Inebriation and Ignorance”. For ten points, name this early Dutch Humanist and author of In Praise of Folly.
Desiderius Erasmus
3

153973-)
In one work set in this place, Comstock works in a small bookshop and works to write a magnum opus called this place’s “pleasures.” Comstock’s only published work, a collection of poetry entitled Mice, is completely neglected. Another work set in this place includes a convict who is given a reprieve by “pleading her belly” to get out of (*) Newgate Prison. This place was fled by a character who brutally murders his lover Nancy and works under Fagin. One address in this place first appears in A Study in Scarlet, that address is 221 Baker Street. For ten points, name this city paired with Paris in A Tale of Two Cities.
: London, England Bonuses
3

153979-)
One character in this work is punished with “The Tickler.” The person who cared for that character is eventually severely brain damaged. A house in this work has all of the clocks stopped at the time its owner was left at the altar; that is Satis House. The protagonist of this work is scared into (*) stealing food and a metal file for a convict he meets. That convict ends up being the benefactor of the protagonist of this novel, who eventually goes abroad to be a merchant. For ten points, name this novel by Charles Dickens about an English orphan who lives with Mrs. Havisham and becomes a gentleman, Pip.
Great Expectations
3

153988-)
One of this author’s works is about a group of people, led by Mrs. Aldwinkle, which discusses the glories of the Renaissance. This author of Those Barren Leaves wrote a novel about a house party located at Mr. Wimbush’s title estate, as viewed through the eyes of Denis Stone. Drugs commonly appear in this author’s works, such as in his personal experience detailed in The Doors of Perception and as the ubiquitous (*) soma in another work. That work includes a man named John the Savage who debates the Resident World Controller Mustapha Mond. For ten points name this author of Eyeless in Gaza, Crome Yellow, and Brave New World.
Aldous Huxley
3

154013-)
In the first of these poems, the speaker asks that the addressee "like adamant draw mine iron heart." In a poem from this collection, the speaker claims to be made of "elements and an angelic sprite," which are "betray'd to endless night," and calls himself "a little world made cunningly." Another of these poems declares that the speaker will never be "chaste, except you ravish me" and implores (*) "Break, blow, burn, and make me new." This collection includes a poem that calls the addressee "slave to fate, chance, kings, and desperate men," as well as a poem beginning "Batter my heart, three-person'd God." For 10 points, name these nineteen religious poems, including "Death, Be Not Proud," written by John Donne.
Holy Sonnets [or Divine Meditations; or Divine Sonnets; prompt on sonnets by John Donne] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154029-)
In one novel by this author, the protagonist visits Brighton with the prostitute Milly and her daughter Winnie so that private detectives can give his wife evidence to divorce him. Another of this author's characters receives a turtle engraved with diamonds forming her initials from her husband Rex Mottram. In a novel by this author, the owner of Hetton Abbey is held captive in the Brazilian jungle by Mr. Todd, who forces him to (*) read Dickens novels forever. In this author's most famous novel, Lord Marchmain's deathbed conversion inspires Julia to break with Charles Ryder, who is brought to the title estate by his friend Sebastian Flyte. For 10 points, name this satirical English novelist of A Handful of Dust and Brideshead Revisited.
Evelyn Waugh (wah) [or Arthur Evelyn St. John Waugh] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154041-)
A character in this play is asked about the views of Pythagoras on birds and believes himself to be the addressee of a letter written to "M, O, A, I." That character in this play is asked if he thinks, because he is virtuous, "there shall be no more cakes and ale?" After being locked in a room, that character in this play is visited by a man disguised as the priest Sir Topas, who insists that character has gone (*) mad. The primary subplot in this play revolves around a forged love letter from Olivia that tricks the prudish servant Malvolio. For 10 points, name this play about the shipwrecked Viola and Sebastian, a Shakespearean comedy named for the fact that it was originally performed at the end of Christmas festivities.
Twelfth Night, or What You Will &lt;Minarik, Literature - British&gt;
5

154069-)
The Imagist collection Sea Garden opens with a poem about one of these objects, which H.D. describes as "lifted in the crisp sand that drives in the wind." In a "Song," Edmund Waller bids one of these objects to "Go" to teach "one who wastes her time and me." The speaker of "The Passionate Shepherd to His Love" promises "beds of" these objects. In another poem, one of these objects is threatened by "the invisible worm that flies in the (*) night in the howling storm," which has found its "bed of crimson joy." A William Blake poem about syphilis is titled for a "sick" one of these objects, which Robert Herrick advised virgins to gather "while ye may." Robert Burns compares his love to a "red, red" example of, for 10 points, what kind of flower?
roses [or sea rose; or rosebuds; prompt on flowers or buds] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154083-)
A religious poem by this author consists of a series of questions and answers, including "Shall I find comfort, travel-sore and weak?" In another poem, this poet writes, "My heart is like a rainbow shell that paddles in a halcyon sea… because my love is come to me." In another poem by this author of "Up-Hill" and "A Birthday," "no grass will grow" on the grave of Jeanie, who "pined away." A poem by this author opens with the (*) antagonists listing "bloom-down-cheek'd peaches, swart-headed mulberries," and many other fruits with the refrain "Come buy, come buy." In that poem, Lizzie allows herself to be beaten by the title creatures to save her sister Laura. For 10 points, name this Victorian woman who wrote "Goblin Market."
Christina Rossetti [prompt on Rossetti] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154103-)
This writer criticized a preacher's "unscrupulosity of statement" and "perverted moral judgment" in "Evangelical Teaching: Dr. Cumming," an essay for the Westminster Review, which this writer edited. The protagonist neglects his wife Milly in favor of Countess Czerlaski in a story by this writer about the Reverend Amos Barton. This writer translated David Strauss's Life of Jesus and Feuerbach's The Essence of Christianity into English. This author of Scenes of (*) Clerical Life wrote about John Raffles, who blackmails the Methodist banker Nicholas Bulstrode, in a novel whose protagonist marries a man who attempts to write The Key to All Mythologies. The Reverend Edward Casaubon and Dorothea Brooke appear in, for 10 points, what English novelist's Middlemarch?
George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans] &lt;Kothari, Literature - British&gt;
5

154126-)
In his last soliloquy, this character asks to be sucked into a cloud "like a foggy mist" or to have his soul turned to drops of water and thrown in the ocean. When the blood from this man's wounded arm instantly congeals, another character brings a grate of coals to melt it. The "B-text" to the play in which this character appears lengthens the scene in which he punches the Pope in the ear during a dinner. After dismissing the idea that "the reward of (*) sin is death," this character summons Valdes and Cornelius, two magicians. This character asks, "Was this the face that launch'd a thousand ships?" upon meeting the ghost of Helen of Troy. For 10 points, name this scholar who sells his soul to the demon Mephistophilis in a play by Christopher Marlowe.
Doctor Faustus [do not accept or prompt on "Faust"] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154134-)
During this event, the mouth of a "sandy-haired woman" is seen "opening and shutting like that of a landed fish." During one of these events, a man imagines shooting a girl in greasy overalls full of arrows like Saint Sebastian. This event begins with "a noise that set one's teeth on edge" and ends with the chanting of "B-B! … B-B!" During this event, the noise of a sheep bleating replaces the voice of a man with a "long thin nose" and a "small goatee" as (*) images of marching Eurasian soldiers appear. The protagonist sees a dark-haired girl from the Fiction Department at this event, which centers on screaming at the image of Emmanuel Goldstein, Enemy of the People. For 10 points, Winston and Julia participate in what daily ritual that reinforces loyalty to Big Brother in 1984?
Two Minutes Hate &lt;Grames, Literature - British&gt;
5

154156-)
A character in this play has a dream anticipating his death, in which he is pushed off a ship to France and sees skulls with "reflecting gems" for eyes at the bottom of the sea. While following a hearse to St. Paul's, a woman in this play is met by her husband's killer, who gives her his sword and asks her to pierce his exposed chest. In this play's last act, the title character is visited by the (*) ghosts of his victims, including Buckingham, Hastings, and Clarence. The title character of this play declares, "Since I cannot prove a lover… I am determined to prove a villain" in a speech that opens, "Now is the winter of our discontent." For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play about a villainous hunchbacked king.
Richard III &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154162-)
A line from this poem titles a Miss Marple mystery that begins with Heather Badcock drinking a poisoned cocktail. Reapers "reaping early" hear the song of the title figure of this poem, which they ascribe to a fairy. A male character in this poem is introduced as having a "helmet and the helmet-feather" that "Burn'd like one burning flame together." Its title character resides in a place where "Four gray walls, and four gray (*) towers, / Overlook a space of flowers" and writes her name on her boat before dying. A mirror cracking from side to side indicates that "the curse is come upon me" in this poem, set on an island near "many-tower'd Camelot." For 10 points, name this Alfred, Lord Tennyson poem about a woman who dies before meeting up with "bold Sir Lancelot."
"The Lady of Shalott" &lt;Bentley, Literature - British&gt;  NSC 2018 - Round 08 - Bonuses
5

154167-)
This novel foreshadows a woman's future infidelity in a scene in which that woman slips around a spiked ha-ha gate at Sotherton with another man rather than wait for her fiancé to bring the key. After turning down a suitor, the protagonist of this novel is sent back to her family's chaotic home in Portsmouth with her brother William, who has been promoted to lieutenant in the navy. In this novel, preparations to put on the play Lovers' Vows are stopped by Sir (*) Thomas returning from his plantation in Antigua. At the end of this novel, Maria lives with Mrs. Norris after running off with Henry, and Edmund rejects the amoral Mary in favor of Fanny Price. For 10 points, name this novel by Jane Austen titled for Thomas Bertram's estate.
Mansfield Park &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154184-)
At a gathering in this novel, guests discuss a future when it will be possible to breed babies in bottles and suffuse the air with ether every Saturday. Two characters in this novel discuss an upcoming trip to Venice while referring to each other as "John Thomas" and "Lady Jane." This novel begins, "Ours is essentially a tragic age, so we refuse to take it tragically." In this novel, Mrs. Bolton cares for a (*) paralyzed nobleman whose family owns the mines where her husband died. Penguin Books was prosecuted under obscenity law for publishing this novel, in which Connie falls in love with Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this scandalous novel about an affair between a married woman and a gamekeeper, by D. H. Lawrence.
Lady Chatterley's Lover &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154210-)
One character in this novel dreams of himself as a "solitary traveler" who sees a woman made of "sky and branches" in Regents Park, where another character hears birds singing in Greek that there is no death. The narrator of this novel describes Dr. William Bradshaw as worshipping "Proportion" and its repressive sister "Conversion." A woman in this novel reflects on her decision to marry the politician Richard instead of (*) Peter Walsh, and treasures the memory of kissing Sally Seton at Bourton. The protagonist of this novel admires Septimus Smith for committing suicide during the party for which she buys flowers at its opening. For 10 points, name this stream-of-consciousness novel about the housewife Clarissa, by Virginia Woolf.
Mrs. Dalloway &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154245-)
Francis Jeffrey disparaged writers in this movement as "whining and hypochondriacal" in one of many attacks on this movement in the Edinburgh Review. A writer in this movement responded to a friend's essay on "The Four Ages of Poetry" with his own essay celebrating the "unacknowledged legislators of the world." An essay that is considered to be a manifesto for this movement argues that a poet should write as a "man speaking to men." That essay, which defines poetry as the (*) "spontaneous overflow of powerful feelings," prefaces a collection by two of the "Lake Poets" who belonged to this movement. For 10 points, name this movement whose beginning is often dated to the publication of Lyrical Ballads, by Samuel Taylor Coleridge and William Wordsworth.
English Romanticism [accept the Lake School of poetry before "Ages"] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154257-)
In The Return of the Native, Clym Yeobright goes home to Egdon Heath after selling these objects in Paris, which makes him attractive to Eustacia Vye. Yusef blackmails Major Scobie into shipping these items on the Esperança in The Heart of the Matter. A party of Englishmen escapes with these items despite the betrayal of the Kukuana woman Gagool in the first of H. Rider Haggard's Allan Quatermain novels. In another novel, an unknowingly-drugged (*) Franklin Blake gives Godfrey Ablewhite one of these objects sacred to a Hindu moon god, which was inherited by Rachel Verinder on her eighteenth birthday. For 10 points, name these precious items, examples of which include the title object of The Moonstone and some that "are forever" in an Ian Fleming novel.
diamonds [prompt on jewelry or gemstones; prompt on stones or moonstones] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154285-)
Richard Mansfield's iconic performance in the lead role of Thomas Russell Sullivan's stage adaptation of this novel was blamed for inspiring Jack the Ripper. One of this novel's main characters runs over a girl on his return home from Cavendish Palace but then pays her family a 50-pound indemnity. After breaking into a laboratory with an axe, the servant Poole and the lawyer Mr. (*) Utterson find that one of this novella's characters has poisoned himself. A man murders an MP named Danvers Carew (carey) in this novella, in which Dr. Lanyon dies after seeing one of the title characters transform into the other. For 10 points, name this Robert Louis Stevenson novella about a scientist with an evil alter-ego.
The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde [or Jekyll and Hyde] &lt;Bentley, Literature - British&gt;
5

154293-)
The author of this poem appended a note about "a phenomenon… well known to naturalists" to explain its lines about how "the sea-blooms and the oozy woods… tremble and despoil themselves." A heavily-enjambed (en-JAMMED) passage in this poem imagines the "dome of a vast sepulchre" (SEP-ul-kur) from which "black rain, and fire, and hail will burst." Written in five cantos of terza rima (TAIRT-sah REE-mah), this poem references its author's (*) revolutionary ideals by asking its subject to be "the trumpet of a prophecy." The speaker of this poem asks its title "Destroyer and Preserver" to "drive" his "dead thoughts over the universe." This poem concludes by asking, "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?" For 10 points, name this poem by Percy Shelley addressed to a weather event.
"Ode to the West Wind" &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154301-)
An essay exhorting these people notes that men may submit to a lion, but asks who would be "devoured alive by a rat," referring to the corrupt patent-holder William Wood. In a novel, this people's capital is represented as Lindalino, which wins a rebellion by mounting four magnets on four towers at its corners. In response to the imposition of underweight copper coins on these people, an author wrote the Drapier's Letters. An essay concerning this nationality lists (*) possible reforms, including "quitting… Animosities" and taxing absentee landlords, but rejects them for a plan that is sure to produce gloves for women and boots for gentlemen. For 10 points, name these people whose babies Jonathan Swift suggests cooking in "A Modest Proposal."
Irish people [prompt on Catholics] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154330-)
One poem by this author states "history has many cunning passages, contrived corridors and issues" and asks "After such knowledge, what forgiveness?" This author imagined "an old man in a dry month" being "read to by a boy" in that poem. The speaker quotes Thomas Kyd's line "Hieronymo's mad againe" and a Gerard de Nerval line about the Prince of Aquitaine in the last stanza of a poem by this author. That poem by him exclaims (*) "Datta. Dayadhvam. Damyata" and states several times "London Bridge is falling down." This author intended his poem "Gerontion" to be a preface to a five-part poem whose sections include "What the Thunder Said." The line "April is the cruellest month" was written by, for 10 points, what author of "The Waste Land"?
Thomas Stearns Eliot [or T. S. Eliot] &lt;Jose, Literature - American&gt;  NSC 2018 - Round 16 - Bonuses
5

154344-)
This writer titled one poem for a feeling "begotten by Despair, upon Impossibility," which he later describes as "the conjunction of the mind, and opposition of the stars." He describes how the mind "annihilates all that's made to a green thought, in a green shade" in the title natural setting of another poem, which he wrote while tutoring the daughter of Thomas Fairfax. This author of "The Definition of Love" recommended behaving like (*) "birds of prey" rather than "languishing" in another being's "slow-chapped power" in one poem. In that poem, this poet of "The Garden" invokes "Deserts of vast eternity" and "Time's winged chariot" to seduce the title character. For 10 points, name this English poet of "To His Coy Mistress."
Andrew Marvell &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154352-)
During a religious festival in this novel, signs are misprinted with the words "God si (sih) love," which a character remembers when his boat collides with a tray carrying a model of Gokul village. At the end of this novel, after a headmaster asks "Why can't we be friends?" the earth, horses, and birds say "in their hundred voices, 'No, not yet.'" In this novel, a place where every sound echoes back as "boum" embitters Mrs. Moore, whose son (*) Ronny Heaslop sends her home before a climactic trial. After a traumatic experience at the Marabar Caves in this novel, the Englishwoman Adela Quested accuses the Muslim Dr. Aziz of assaulting her. For 10 points, name this novel by E. M. Forster set in a country ruled by the British Raj.
A Passage to India &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154390-)
The protagonist of a novel by this author recalls weeping at the grave of Father Lorenzo, a monk in Calais with whom he exchanged snuffboxes. In another novel, this author included a page only marked with a large black square facing opposite the page of a major character's death. This author responded to Tobias Smollett in a novel which parodies Smollett as "Smelfungus," and uses Parson (*) Yorick as a stand-in for this author on his travels through continental Europe. The protagonist of a novel by this author is accidentally circumcised by a window-sash, and uses the term "hobby-horse" to describe his uncle Toby's obsession with siege warfare. For 10 points, name this author of A Sentimental Journey through France and Italy and Tristram Shandy.
Laurence Sterne &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154394-)
This precocious "Poet Laureate of Hope End" had the Battle of Marathon published at just age 13. In a poem by this author, the speaker recounts how "as I mused it in his antique tongue, / I saw, in gradual vision through my tears, / The sweet, sad years, the melancholy years." In another poem, this author described an action performed "freely, as men strive for right" and "purely, as they turn from praise." The line "I (*) thought once how Theocritus had sung" opens the first poem of a collection by this author that asks the addressee to use "the name I used to run at, when a child." Another poem by this author opens by asking, "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways." For 10 points, name this Victorian author of Sonnets from the Portuguese, the wife of Robert.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [or Elizabeth Barrett Browning; prompt on Browning] &lt;Bentley, Literature - British&gt;
5

154414-)
In a monologue written by this playwright, a man says he wants to "build that shed out in the garden" before finding the man who committed him, at age 16, to a mental hospital where the head doctor electrocuted him with pincers. Another of his plays ends shortly after a landlord screams "Don't let them tell you what to do!" as a newly-shaven man holding broken glasses is taken to see "Monty." This author's characteristic (*) "pauses" pervade the speech of his character Aston, who takes in the homeless Davies. In one of this author's "comedies of menace," the boarder Stanley is taken away by two mysterious visitors named Goldberg and McCann. For 10 points, name this playwright of The Caretaker and The Birthday Party, as well as The Dumb Waiter.
Harold Pinter &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;  NSC 2018 - Round 20 (Tiebreaker 2) - Bonuses
5

154426-)
During a play by this author, the lights go out as an air raid blows up the stock of dynamite owned by the inventor Captain Shotover during a dinner party held by Hesione Hushabye (heh-SYE-oh-nee hush-ah-bye). This author called that play "A Fantasia in the Russian Manner on English Themes." This author wrote a play in which the title woman decides to stay with the "weaker" of two suitors, her husband Reverend James Morrell, rather than the poet (*) Eugene Marchbanks. In another play by this author of Heartbreak House, the Greek scholar Adolphus Cusins inherits the munitions empire of Andrew Undershaft, who disillusions his daughter by donating to the Salvation Army. For 10 points, name this playwright of Candida and Major Barbara.
George Bernard Shaw &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154444-)
This poem mocks the premature death of John Keats by describing him as a "very fiery particle" which "let itself be snuffed out by an Article." A section of this poem that appeared in 1823 is the source of the phrase "for truth is always strange; stranger than fiction." This poem's second stanza lists Burgoyne, Vernon, and "the butcher Cumberland" as "evil and good" after proclaiming "I want a hero: an uncommon want." The title character of this poem is (*) captured and sold in a slave market in Constantinople, and later meets the Muslim girl Leila in Saint Petersburg. The sixteen completed cantos of this poem describe a hero who gets Haydee pregnant before she is abandoned. For 10 points, name this satirical poem by Lord Byron about an easily-seduced libertine.
Don Juan (JU-an) &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

154445-)
Roberto Busa produced a lemmatized and searchable version of this thinker's oeuvre in a pioneering work of digital humanities. Upon being shown a nun levitating in prayer, this man quipped, "I didn't know nuns wore such big boots." A hymn by St. Venantius Fortunatus inspired this man to write his Pange Lingua. His other hymns for the Lauda sion sequence include Adoro te devote and Sacris solemniis, whose "Panis angelicus" strophe is often excerpted. In (*) 1273, this student of Albertus Magnus had a mystical experience that caused him to abandon his magnum opus, which refers to Aristotle as "The Philosopher" and includes five proofs of the existence of God called the quinque viae. For 10 points, name this Dominican friar who wrote the Summa Theologiae.
St. Thomas Aquinas [or Tommaso d'Aquino; prompt on Thomas] &lt;Kothari, RMP - Bible/Christianity&gt;
5

154456-)
This novel contrasts the simplicity of seamen's yarns, the meaning of which "lies within the shell of a cracked nut," with the stories of a character for whom meaning was like a "misty halo." The protagonist of this novel becomes aware of a "flabby, pretending, weak-eyed devil" while watching a chain-gang walk up a hillside. In the frame story of this novel, its main character imagines a Roman soldier here at "the very end of the world" while looking out at the Thames from the deck of the (*) Nellie. At the end of this novel, the narrator submits a report on the "Suppression of Savage Customs" after tearing off a postscriptum reading "exterminate all the brutes!" and lies to the Intended to conceal that a man's last words were "the horror! The horror!" For 10 points, name this novel in which Marlowe searches for Kurtz in the Congo by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness &lt;Brownstein, Literature - European&gt;  NSC 2018 - Round 22 - Bonuses
5

154466-)
This character whispers "Open-ey'd conspiracy his time doth take" into a sleeping character's ear to save him from a murder plot. This character reports that another character, with hair standing up "like reeds," shouted "Hell is empty, and all the devils are here!" While helping another character dress, this character sings "Where the bee sucks, there suck I." This character's groans are said to have tormented (*) wolves and bears while he was imprisoned for 12 years in a cloven pine by the witch Sycorax (SICK-uh-rax). This character sings "Full fathom five thy father lies" to taunt Ferdinand, who was on a ship that this character sunk in a storm. For 10 points, name this spirit who serves the magician Prospero in The Tempest.
Ariel &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154469-)
This author promises to walk "where the wild wind blows on the mountain side" in a poem that begins "Often rebuked, yet always back returning." In a novel by this author, an alcoholic attaches a spring-knife to the barrel of his pistol to kill the man who continually loans him money to feed his gambling addiction. This author wrote a notebook of poems set in the invented land of Gondal. A character created by this author humiliates his (*) adoptive brother Hindley and forcibly marries the heir to Thrushcross Grange to his son Linton. This author's only published novel is framed as a narrative told to Mr. Lockwood by Nelly, who recalls the romance between Catherine and Heathcliff. For 10 points, name this author of Wuthering Heights.
Emily Brontë [prompt on Brontë] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154484-)
A person with this title attribute is told to remember "how Love fled… and hid his face amid a crowd of stars" in an adaptation of a Pierre de Ronsard sonnet addressed to Maud Gonne. "Wild" creatures whose "hearts have not" acquired this attribute "scatter wheeling in great broken rings" in front of the speaker in "The Wild Swans at Coole." After opening with a declaration about this kind of person, another poem addresses "sages standing in God's holy (*) fire" and calls this type of person "a tattered coat upon a stick." The poem "Sailing to Byzantium" declares "that is no country for," for 10 points, men with what attribute, often lamented in poems by William Butler Yeats?
oldness [or age; or being elderly; or equivalents] &lt;Bollinger, Literature - British&gt;
5

154523-)
After leaving this character, a man returns to her due to a supernatural incident in which he hears this woman calling, “O Jemmy! come back, come back,” from twelve miles away. During a game in which they use a diamond ring to write on a window, this character gets a love interest to say he doesn't love her for her supposed wealth; she courts that man after her linen-draper husband escapes to France from debtor’s prison. This character lies sick in bed for five weeks after her seducer, who calls her “Mrs. Betty,” decides to marry her off to his younger brother. This character walks off with an unattended horse and is tempted by the devil to kill a child from whom she steals a necklace during a crime spree that leads to her reunion with her “Lancashire husband.” This character encounters her mother, who had escaped hanging in Newgate by “pleading the belly,” in Virginia, leading this woman to realize that she had married her half brother. For 10 points, name this oft-married title character of a 1722 Daniel Defoe novel.
Moll Flanders [accept either name; accept Mrs. Betty until “Betty” is read]
8

154524-)
Description acceptable. In The Bad and the Beautiful, a recording of the late George Lorrison giving this speech plays in his daughter’s apartment before Jonathan Shields breaks the record and draws a moustache on Lorrison’s portrait. In a lecture on this speech, Ian McKellen argues that the end of the short first line provides a place to pause and catch the audience’s attention. Orson Welles’s 1948 rendition of this speech plays over a stationary shot of dark, swirling clouds. In a sequence from Alejandro Iñárritu’s Birdman, Riggan drunkenly walks down a dark street as a homeless man shouts this soliloquy at the top of his lungs, explaining that “I was just trying to give you a range.” In a 2015 film, Michael Fassbender’s character dances slowly with the lifeless body of his wife as he says the last lines of this speech, which are typically delivered with a pause between the final two words, “signifying nothing.” For 10 points, in what soliloquy does Macbeth describe life as “a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury”?
“Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow” [accept Macbeth’s soliloquy from Act V, Scene 5; accept Macbeth’s final soliloquy; accept answers describing Macbeth’s response to the death of his wife]
8

154537-)
An essay on male homosocial desire in this play from Eve Sedgwick’s Between Men discusses a scene in which a man forces his wife at knifepoint to write a letter, which she then finishes in her own words when he leaves to get wax. In a scene of this play set at the New Exchange shopping mall, the protagonist buys fruit for, and kisses, a woman disguised as a boy. A “virtuous gang” toasts wine for making their husbands shortsighted and gallants bold in a bawdy Act V banquet scene of this play. An unwitting man shouts, “He is coming in to you the back way,” to his wife, who has locked herself in a room where the protagonist supposedly keeps a collection of fine ware, in a scene of this play. The engagement of Sparkish and Alethea is a subplot of this play, in which the protagonist has the Quack start a rumor about him. The “china scene” occurs in, for 10 points, what play in which Horner pretends to be impotent to seduce women, a work of William Wycherley?
The Country Wife
8

154546-)
In one novel, the symmetry of Fort Breendonk leads this person to imagine it as an “anatomical blueprint of some alien and crab-like creature.” This person weirds out a family on a bus by asking for a photo of twins due to their resemblance to Franz Kafka, who stars in the book’s next section, “Dr. K Takes the Waters at Riva.” In a third novel, this person reflects on Edward Fitzgerald’s love for William Browne after leaving the house of his friend Michael Hamburger. At the start of that novel, this person narrates his discharge from a hospital and speculates that Dr. Tulp’s anatomy lesson was witnessed by Thomas Browne. Unnamed fictional versions of this author of Vertigo walk around Suffolk in one novel and befriend a man who grew up in Wales after being evacuated from Nazi Prague in another. For 10 points, name this German author who used black-and-white photographs in his novels The Rings of Saturn and Austerlitz.
W. G. Sebald [or Winfried Georg Sebald; accept the narrator of Vertigo [or Schwindel. Gefühle] or narrator of The Rings of Saturn [or Die Ringe des Saturn] or narrator of Austerlitz; prompt on “Winfried” or “Georg” or “Max”] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by the editors (2) Bonuses
8

154551-)
This event “might be described as a remote but inevitable result of the art of printing” according to a writer who declared that he “started in life with” this event and “lived, alas! to see the end of it” in the essay “On the Feeling of Immortality in Youth.” An officer explains the purpose of this event by pointing to a “hunger-bitten” girl leading a heifer in a section of a poem that recalls the enthusiasts of this event seeing it as a “pleasant exercise of hope and joy.” The Solitary voices its author’s view by expressing “disappointment and disgust” over this event in the poem The Excursion, whose author had an affair with Annette Vallon during it. An Enquiry concerning Political Justice was written in response to this event by William Godwin, whose wife, Mary Wollstonecraft, responded to a document from it in her Vindication. For 10 points, Romantic authors such as Hazlitt and Wordsworth were influenced by what upheaval that occasioned some “Reflections” by Edmund Burke?
French Revolution [anti-prompt, i.e. ask “can you be less specific?”, on more specific answers such as “Reign of Terror” or “Thermidorian Reaction” or “Fall of the Bastille” and so on]
8

154567-)
Euphrasia defends these things in a dialogue that concludes with the supposedly Egyptian tale of Queen Charoba; that early history of these things is a “progress” of them by Clara Reeve. An attack on the “swarms” of these “worthless” things appears in James Fordyce’s Sermons to Young Women, which a character who professes to avoid these things reads aloud until he is interrupted with gossip about soldiers. A chapter praising these things imagines a young lady saying “with affected indifference,” “Oh, it is only [one of these things],” which the narrator rephrases as, “It is . . . in short, only some work in which the greatest powers of the mind are displayed.” A defense of these things occupies chapter five of a book, in which Orphan of the Rhine, Necromancer, and other “horrid” works of this form are introduced to the protagonist by Isabella Thorpe. For 10 points, name this literary form that is shared by works Catherine Morland reads and by Jane Austen’s own Northanger Abbey and Pride and Prejudice.
novels [or romances; accept specific genres such as romance novels or Gothic novels; accept The Progress of Romance; prompt on “Gothic fiction”; prompt on “books” or “fiction”]
8

154599-)
A story by this author switches to third person to imagine the narrator stringing a fiddle and setting free her lover’s caged birds after strangling him with his long hair. This author wrote a story in which a jewel-clad spaniel brings the protagonist from London to the country house where the title character lies dying. A story by this author repeatedly describes the lice moving in the hair of a naked man who instructs the child protagonist to throw her shawl and then her blouse into a fire after betting her that he can get to an isolated house first by using his compass. One of this author’s stories begins with a Parisian pianist taking a train to the castle of her new husband, a marquis. This author of “The Courtship of Mr. Lyon” and “The Erl-King” included three wolf-themed stories, including “The Company of Wolves,” in a collection whose title story retells the Bluebeard legend. For 10 points, name this British author who updated fairy tales in her collection The Bloody Chamber.
Angela Carter [or Angela Olive Carter-Pearce; or Angela Olive Stalker]
8

154616-)
The 16th-century physician Michael Maier’s Subtle Allegory describes an apprentice’s quest to find this mythical being, only to realize that this figure is a metaphor for alchemy. Cassius Dio states that the appearance of this being, along with the flooding of the Tiber and a fire near the Aventine, portended the death of Tiberius. This being became a popular printer’s mark during the Renaissance and served as an emblem of Gabriele Giolito’s press in Venice. The earliest known Greek reference to this creature is a riddle in the Precepts of Chiron, where it is compared to a crow, a stag, a raven, and the “rich-haired Nymphs.” This creature was said to place its father inside a hollow sphere made of myrrh before carrying the sphere from Arabia to Heliopolis in Egypt, where this creature appeared once every 500 years. St. Clement of Rome integrated this creature into church doctrine by using it as a symbol for the resurrection of Christ. For 10 points, name this mythical bird that was said to burn itself in a pyre before rising again from its own ashes.
phoenix
8

154639-)
While disoriented by a strong opiate, the protagonist of this novel wanders to a midnight fête held in a park, where she sees “the secret junta” who conspired to send a man to “Guadaloupe.” In an oft-discussed episode of this novel, the protagonist is hurried to a series on “vie d'une femme” at a gallery after a man catches her looking at an orientalist painting of a fleshy nude “Cleopatra.” In order to visit Ginevra, a count in this novel dresses up as the ghost of a legendary nun who was buried alive for violating her vows. The comic French-language names used throughout this novel include that of the kingdom it’s set in, Labassecour, which means “barnyard.” Inspired by the author’s time at a pensionatt in Belgium, this novel follows a woman who falls in love first with Dr. John and then M. Paul, who are also employed at Madame Beck’s boarding school. For 10 points, name this novel about Lucy Snowe’s time in the title town by Charlotte Brontë.
Villette
8

154651-)
A legend among these people in Germany held that, if they used wood from a tree that grew over the grave of a child who died unbaptized, the child’s spirit could help them in the form of a pipe-smoking fairy. After these people died, their souls were said to become birds named for a Latin phrase meaning “Dear Mother.” Sorcerers in Lapland sold magical cords with three knots to these people, whose monster legends inspired the illustrations on the left of a 1539 map published by Olaus Magnus. Their folklore includes a kobold called the Klabautermann (klah-bau-tehr-mahn) and a cruel witch named Mother Carey. These people told of an afterlife where people never tired of singing and dancing, known as Fiddler’s Green. In the Örvar-Oddr (UR-vahr OHD-ur) saga, members of this profession encounter the Lyngbakr and Hafgufa, which may be an early reference to a giant many-armed monster from Scandinavian legends. For 10 points, name these people who considered it unlucky to shoot an albatross and avoided the Kraken on their voyages.
sailors [accept synonyms such as seafarers]
8

154658-)
In one poem, this author imagined Franz Liszt “at the Grand Canal / together with the restless woman who is married to King Midas.” A long poem by this author tells of how “some monks who liked escargots” introduced the snail Helix pomatia to an island, a “greeting from the Middle Ages.” That poem by this author says there are days when the title sea is “a calm, limitless roof” under a “flag that’s so frayed by the wind and smoked by the funnels and bleached by the sun that it could be anybody’s.” The close of that poem by this author takes place in the “archipelago people’s ghetto cemetery” and describes “the people carried by the certain wave, the certain wind, / out here to their fates.” This poet of “Sorrow Gondola No. 2” wrote of how his grandfather ferried people over the title sea in a poem that begins, “It was before the time of radio masts.” This author of The Half-Finished Heaven drew on the treacherous islands near Runmarö ("rune"-mahr-eu) for his poem Baltics. For 10 points, name this Nobel-winning Swedish poet.
Tomas Tranströmer [or Tomas Gösta Tranströmer]
8

154662-)
An author with this surname opened the “Disintegration” section of one of his novels with the words “fuck all this lying look what im really trying to write about is writing not all this stuff about architecture.” That author with this surname was inspired by a fortune teller’s card to include rectangular holes in the pages of one novel and wrote a “book-in-a-box” consisting of 27 reorderable pamphlets. The author of the experimental novels Albert Angelo and The Unfortunates, Bryan Stanley, shared this surname with an earlier British author who stated that “nothing odd will last” in opposition to the innovations of Laurence Sterne’s Tristram Shandy. In the only novel by that author with this surname, Pekuah is kidnapped at the pyramids after leaving the Happy Valley with the title Ethiopian prince. For 10 points, give this surname of the author of Rasselas and subject of a James Boswell book.
Johnson [accept Samuel Johnson or Bryan Stanley Johnson]
8

154671-)
A poem by Galway Kinnell compares eating this fruit to writing poetry using “certain peculiar words,” meaning “many-lettered, one-syllabled lumps, / which I squeeze, squinch open, and splurge well / in [a] silent, startled, icy” language. Another poem rejects the notion that the word for this fruit “is elegy to what it signifies,” instead choosing to revel in the memory of a woman the speaker once made love to and “moments when the body is as numinous / as words, days that are the good flesh continuing.” Robert Hass’s poem “Meditation at Lagunitas” ends by recalling the tenderness of afternoons and evenings when he would say the word for this fruit over and over again. A third poem about this fruit says that “summer’s blood was in it” and laments that “each year I hoped they’d keep, knew they would not” when a “rat-grey fungus” spoils this fruit. A poem in Seamus Heaney’s Death of a Naturalist in which the speaker’s palms are “sticky as Bluebeard’s” is about picking, for 10 points, what dark fruit that grows on bushes?
blackberry [or blackberries; accept “Blackberry Eating” or “Blackberry-Picking”]
8

154686-)
A character in this story is contemplating the prospect of monogamous marriage when he makes a tasting motion with his mouth and remarks, “Must get a bit stale, I should think.” That character in this story peppers his speech with ostentatious French, such as calling the bartender garçon and swearing by his parole d’honneur. The protagonist of this story examines an old photo of his wife and recalls how nervous he was when he overpaid for the blue blouse she was wearing. Its protagonist admires the melancholy style of Lord Byron’s “On the Death of a Young Lady” and dreams that critics will praise his own sappy writing as possessing the “Celtic Note.” Feeling that he is a “prisoner for life” in his dull marriage, the protagonist of this story shouts, “Stop!” at his crying child after returning home from a meeting with his London-based journalist friend Ignatius Gallaher. For 10 points, what story from James Joyce’s Dubliners centers on aspiring poet Thomas Chandler, who is called by a diminutive nickname?
“A Little Cloud” ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by the editors (10) Bonuses
8

154693-)
An essay argues that literature in this language has been judged “stripped of its style,” leaving its writers “like men deprived [of their clothes] by an earthquake or a railway accident.” A translator of works in this language nicknamed “Kot” had an unrequited crush on his collaborator Katherine Mansfield and a rivalry with an author whose son David wrote Lady into Fox while part of the Bloomsbury Group. A story in this language lays emphasis “upon such unexpected places that at first it seems as if there were no emphasis at all” according to an essay that disfavorably compares Ulysses with that story about a dying soldier on a ship. Virginia Woolf’s “Modern Fiction” discusses literature of this language, which Woolf knew through a translator often criticized for skipping or smoothing out difficult passages. British modernism was influenced by translations from this language that Constance Garnett released in the 1910s, such as The Darling and Other Stories. For 10 points, name this language used by Anton Chekhov.
Russian [The first clue is from Woolf’s “The Russian Point of View.”]
8

154699-)
The bottom middle of this artwork is dominated by a curtain that hangs from a wooden frame between two sets of five allegorical panels displaying the contrasting images of, among other things, a cannon and a cloud emitting four forked bolts and a crown and a bishop’s mitre. This artwork, which exemplifies its artist’s form of perspective based on Girard Desargues’s projective geometry, appeared nine years after a similar piece by Jean Matheus that is divided into panels depicting Libertas, Imperium, and Religio. At the very top of this artwork is a Latin quote from Job 41:33 meaning “there is no power on Earth to be compared to him.” This artwork shows a crowned man who is holding a bishop’s crozier and a sword and whose body and arms are made up of many smaller bodies. Abraham Bosse designed, for 10 points, what engraving that adorned the original title page of Thomas Hobbes’s treatise on the “matter, form, and power of a commonwealth”?
frontispiece to Thomas Hobbes’s Leviathan [prompt on less-specific answers mentioning “Leviathan” such as “title page of Leviathan”; do not accept or prompt on answers mentioning “cover of Leviathan”]
8

154704-)
John Ciardi’s poem about this event states that its subject “did it so well / we thrill to the performance” and that it is “old school custom to pretend to be sad” when we think about it. That poem about this event uses a 36-line form called trenta-sei that was invented by Ciardi. A poem about this event tells its addressee that “the violet; the violet; the violet was your favorite flower.” That John Logan poem about this event quotes an epitaph reading, “Here lies one whose name was writ on water.” Before this event, its subject noted how it might deprive him of “huge cloudy symbols of a high romance” and “the faery power of unreflecting love” in a sonnet that ends, “On the shore / of the wide world I stand alone, and think / till love and fame to nothingness do sink.” This event, the subject of the sonnet “When I have fears that I may cease to be,” inspired an elegy that notes how a man’s soul “beacons from the abode where the Eternal are.” For 10 points, name this event that inspired Percy Shelley’s elegy Adonaïs.
the death of John Keats [accept answers that refer to John Keats dying or succumbing to tuberculosis]
8

154738-)
The narrator of this novel claims to have gifted the feathers used for a dress in Robert Howard’s The Indian Queen. A party of women accompanies a character in this novel on outings in which he slays a tiger with a sword after stealing its cub and faints after grabbing a “numb-eel” from a river. A character in this novel throws a piece of his own throat at men who find him in the woods with a flower-covered corpse he’d been lying next to for eight days. In the first part of this novel, the main female character is horrified to receive a “royal veil,” which obliges her to join the harem of the king of Coramantien. The owner of Parham House, Trefry, gives this novel’s main character the name “Caesar” and reunites him with his lover Imoinda. This novel concludes with the title character smoking a pipe as his body parts are hacked off by an executioner after the failure of his revolt in Surinam. For 10 points, name this novel about a “royal slave” by Aphra Behn.
Oroonoko: or, the Royal Slave
8

154746-)
This book contains a footnote praising Thomas Carlyle’s Past and Present for its “splendid description” of a sort of person who “knows no bliss save that of rapid gain” and “no pain save that of losing gold.” The book relays the anecdote of its author commenting that he “had never seen so ill-built a city,” to which a man replies, “And yet there is a great deal of money made here; good morning, sir.” This book, which Edmund Wilson speculates was written with the aid of illiterate sisters named Mary and Lizzie Burns, was first translated into English by Florence Kelley. The influential empirical data found in this work includes tables on illness and death rates in such towns as Carlisle and Preston, which are compared to statistics from rural Rutlandshire. This book was written while its author was employed by his father and Peter Ermen at a cotton mill in Manchester. The effects of the Industrial Revolution are examined in, for 10 points, what sociological study by Friedrich Engels?
The Condition of the Working Class in England [or Die Lage der arbeitenden Klasse in England] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by the editors (12) Bonuses
8

154759-)
A book by this author treats W.H Mallock’s The New Republic as representative of a period he calls the “Interregnum.” This critic examined how Jane Austen’s characters live in “knowable communities” in a book that refers to the collective experience of a historical moment with the term “structure of feeling.” That book by this author argues that the “green language” used in Edenic literary depictions of nature obscures the role of labor in shaping rural areas. Jonathan Dollimore’s book Political Shakespeare adapts this thinker’s term “cultural materialism” for an approach to literary theory. This author of The Country and the City advanced the idea that “culture is ordinary” in a book discussing British writers from Burke to Orwell, Culture and Society. For 10 points, name this Welsh Marxist literary theorist who defined terms used in discussions of culture in his book Keywords.
Raymond Williams
8

154773-)
A collection that takes both its title and structure from one of these events begins with the poem “spooky berries,” which states, “Edgar Allan Poe / has written a very eerie poem this month.” Makeup-inspired sections like “Powder” and “Gloss” comprise that book by Sam Riviere titled for an event of this kind involving Kim Kardashian. In a poem praising an event of this kind, a tree is engraved with the words “Worship me: I am Helen’s tree.” That poem, which imitates Stesichorus, is Theocritus’s 18th Idyll. Edmund Spenser’s experience of an event of this kind led him to pen a poem addressed to “Ye learned sisters which have oftentimes / Been to me aiding.” That poem contains the refrain “The woods shall to me answer and my Echo ring,” and was published alongside Amoretti. Catullus 64 exemplifies a genre of Ancient poetry that celebrates these events and often includes the exclamation “Hymen! O Hymenee!” For 10 points, name these events that are the subject of the epithalamium, a genre that celebrates recent brides.
marriages [or weddings; or nuptials accept epithalamium early]
8

154778-)
In a novel by this author, the narrator walks in on the masochistic title character polishing Anni’s boots and gleefully begging for mercy while Olga whips him. In that novel by this author, a baron who avidly reads novels like Billy the Castaway and The Seven Who Got Lost travels with the protagonist to a Swiss hotel for a rendezvous with a financier who goes by “Margot” in telegrams to the title character. This author followed the fraught relationship of Peter Wilkinson and Otto Nowak (NOH-vak) in the chapter “On Reugen (ROY-gen) Island” of one novel. That novel by this author opens with the narrator looking at the “deep solemn massive street” from his window before declaring “I am a camera with its shutter open, quite passive, recording, not thinking.” This author created the singer Sally Bowles in a novel that was indirectly adapted into the musical Cabaret and is usually published with Mr. Norris Changes Trains. For 10 points, name this author who included Goodbye to Berlin in his book The Berlin Stories.
Christopher Isherwood
8

154801-)
This work imagines the author’s country “rousing herself like a strong man after sleep” in a passage that also compares that country to “an Eagle muing her mighty youth.” This work compares what “a wicked race of deceivers” did to the “lovely form” of a certain allegorical figure while the Apostles were asleep to Plutarch’s account of “the Ægyptian Typhon” tearing up and scattering Osiris. This work claims that “he that can apprehend and consider vice with all her baits and seeming pleasures, and yet abstain . . . is the true wayfaring Christian,” and later argues “let [Truth] and Falsehood grapple; who ever knew Truth put to the worse, in a free and open encounter?” This treatise claims that “he who destroys a good book, kills reason itself” and takes its title from an Isocrates oration named for a hill in Athens. For 10 points, name this 1644 tract defending the “Liberty of Unlicenc’d Printing” by John Milton.
Areopagitica: A Speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicenc’d Printing, to the Parliament of England
8

154820-)
On a night of “smoky rain” in this poem, a character tells the female protagonist that “it is nought good a sleeping hound to wake” after entering her room via a trapdoor. C.S. Lewis’s The Discarded Image discusses the Pharsalia and the Teseida as sources for a moment in this poem in which a dead man laughs at his mourners. Barry Windeatt compared versions of this poem that omit its three “philosophical passages” to St. Paul’s Cathedral without its dome; those passages are a soliloquy on “predestination,” the song “Love, that rules the earth and sea,” and the ascent of this poem’s hero to the eighth sphere of heaven. In this poem, the proverb-spouting Pandarus encourages his niece to accept a suitor. Cassandra’s analysis of a dream about a boar in this poem foretells that the second title character will betray the hero with his enemy Diomede. For 10 points, name this epic poem by Geoffrey Chaucer about two lovers in the Trojan War.
Troilus and Criseyde
8

154825-)
A poem agreeing with this poet opens: “we cannot go to the country / for the country will bring us / no peace.” This poet, who “was right” according to that William Carlos Williams poem, wrote a work that abruptly ends with the words “for tender stalks.” A mysterious poem by this poet survives only in a single manuscript, in which he says, of the lady he loves, “when I was gone, she sent her memory, / more strong than were ten thousand ships of war.” This poet appears in Colin Clout’s Come Home Again as the Shepherd of the Ocean, a persona he adopted to address a woman he called “Cynthia.” In his best-known poem, this friend of Edmund Spenser wrote of “when Rivers rage and Rocks grow cold, / and Philomel becometh dumb.” The speaker of that poem by this man rejects “thy belt of straw and Ivy buds” but notes that, “if all the world and love were young,” she’d “live with thee, and be thy love.” For 10 points, name this poet who responded to Christopher Marlowe with “The Nymph’s Reply to the Shepherd.”
Sir Walter Raleigh
8

154833-)
This poet wrote “tis verse / that gives immortal youth to mortal maids” in his eight-line poem “Verse.” With George Crabbe and Walt Whitman, this author is one of the 19th-century authors in the “Exhibits” section of Pound’s ABC of Reading, which includes a poem by him that warns “lest Charon, seeing her, forget / that he is old and she a shade.” This author of the epitaph “Dirce” (dur-see) wrote “I strove with none, for none were worth my strife / Nature I loved, and next to Nature, Art,” in a poem sometimes titled “Dying Speech of an Old Philosopher” that he wrote for his 75th birthday. This author wrote “a night of memories and of sighs / I consecrate to thee” in a poem that begins “ah what avails the spectered race.” He included a dialogue between Boccaccio and Petrarch in his Pentameron, part of a larger prose work of similar conversations between historical figures. For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of “Rose Aylmer” and Imaginary Conversations.
Walter Savage Landor
8

154856-)
This man began the last section of one work worried that he was committing “inexcusable Pythagoreanism” before ending that section with a meditation on sleep. This author claimed that to tell a man that he is “at the end of his nature” is the “heaviest stone that melancholy can throw.” He ended that work “ready to be anything, in the ecstasy of being ever.” Another work by this author considers its subject “artificially, naturally, and mystically.” He focused on the pattern created by five dots arranged in the shape of an X, identifying this “quincunx” (KWIN-kunx) as being common in nature. A work by this author opens by considering “when the general pyre was out, and the last valediction over.” In that work, this author declared that “man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes, and pompous in the grave.” The Garden of Cyrus is a discourse by, for 10 points, what 17th-century English author whose rich prose is exemplified by his Hydriotaphia, Urn-Burial?
Thomas Browne
8

154858-)
In this cycle’s 31st poem, the speaker says that “a kiss is but a kiss now!” before stating that he and the addressee will sit “and eat our pot of honey on the grave.” Cecil Day-Lewis wrote an introduction for the 1948 edition of this collection and titled his memoir for its line “their hearts held cravings for the buried day.” In its 16th poem, the speaker says that a woman’s cheek was “salt against my kiss” and upsets her by saying “Ah, yes! / Love dies!” That poem from this sequence opens with the line “in our old shipwrecked days there was an hour.” In this cycle’s final poem, a husband and wife are compared to “rapid falcons in a snare, / condemned to do the flitting of the bat.” That couple is compared to sculptured effigies “wishing for the sword that severs all” in a poem from this sequence that opens “by this he knew she wept with waking eyes.” The poet’s wife, Mary Ellen, left him for Henry Wallis, which inspired, for 10 points, what 50-sonnet sequence by George Meredith about his deteriorating marriage?
Modern Love
8

154877-)
Part of this line of poetry supplies the title of a memoir that depicts life in Czernowitz ("CHAIR"-noh-vitz) after World War I via literary portraits of Gregor von Rezzori’s family members. Part of this line is flashed on the screen after Tom says that “I think the rest of the play will explain itself” in the opening monologue of The Glass Menagerie. After lamenting the “decline of faith in the Spirit World,” Madame Arcati recites this line in its original French in Noel Coward’s Blithe Spirit. This line closes a stanza describing the death of Jean Buridan, who was sewn into a sack and cast into the Seine. This line is repeated in a poem that opens: “tell me now in what hidden way is / Lady Flora the lovely Roman?” Dante Gabriel Rossetti coined a new word to translate the final word of this line, antan. This is the refrain of a poem from Le Testament that asks where Queen Blanche, Héloise, and Joan of Arc have gone. For 10 points, give the refrain of François Villon’s “The Ballad of Dead Ladies,” which laments the passage of time.
“but where are the snows of yesteryear?” [or “mais où sont les neiges d’antan?”; accept longer answers that include either of the underlined portions; prompt on “the snows of yesteryear” or “les neiges d’antan”]
8

154883-)
The narrator asks this character “do the people in your country love you?” instead of relaying an offer of tea in a scene of Javier Marías’s A Heart So White that translates a conversation between a Spanish man and this person. An effigy of this figure is often picked for burning at the Club Hot Wax in The Satanic Verses, in which Chamcha nicknames this person “Torture.” In a short story, a character initially mistaken for the son of the boiler man Duggan enters the narrator’s house to wait for this character to leave an eye surgery, then says “fucking rejoice” after killing her. Nick Guest retreats to the bathroom for a threesome with his lover Wani and a waiter after dancing with this woman in Alan Hollinghurst’s The Line of Beauty. The title story of 2014 Hilary Mantel short story collection is about this person’s fictional assassination by an IRA operative. For 10 points, Jonathan Lee’s novel High Dive is about an attempt to kill what woman nicknamed “Maggie” at the Brighton Hotel?
Margaret Thatcher [or Margaret Hilda Thatcher; accept The Assassination of Margaret Thatcher; prompt on “Maggie” or “Margaret” before “Maggie”; prompt on the Englishwoman or the British politician before “Satanic”]
8

154891-)
In Rabih Alameddine’s An Unnecessary Woman, Fadia’s yells of “take her back!” remind Aaliya of this poem as she refuses her half-brothers’ requests to look after her mother. In The Loved One, Evelyn Waugh compares Dennis Barlow to a monk in prayer as he repeats a line from this poem set “here at the quiet limit of the world.” This poem’s speaker tells his lover that her “eyes brighten slowly close to mine, / ere yet they blind the stars,” before noting that her horses “beat the twilight into flakes of fire.” Its speaker says “and all I was, in ashes” and later laments that “the Gods themselves cannot recall their gifts.” The first stanza of this poem says that “Man comes and tills the field and lies beneath. This poem, which begun as a pendant to “Ulysses,” opens with the line “the woods decay, the woods decay and fall.” The line “after many a summer dies the swan” appears in, for 10 points, what poem by Lord Tennyson about a lover of Eos who was given immortality but not eternal youth?
“Tithonus”
8

154914-)
Martin West produced two translations of this poem, one in Homeric Greek and the other in Nonnian hexameter. Yuen Ren Chao’s paper “Dimensions of Fidelity in Translation with Special Reference to Chinese” discusses translating this poem as part of Warren Weaver’s project to render its poet “in many tongues.” An essay by Douglas Hofstadter argues that translating this poem creates the problem of finding “the same node” in two networks that are “extremely nonisomorphic.” That essay claims that many words in this poem serve as “exciters of nearby symbols,” and questions whether the French word lubricilleux can invoke meanings like “slippery” and “lithe.” In this poem, a man says “come to my arms, my beamish boy!” and “chortle[s] in his joy.” This poem’s hero defeats his “manxome foe” in the “tulgey wood” using his “vorpal blade.” “Twas brillig, and the slithy toves / did gyre and gimble in the wabe” is the first line of, for 10 points, what nonsense poem from Lewis Carroll’s Through the Looking Glass?
“Jabberwocky”
8

154926-)
The narrator recalls spending all night with this author trying to think of a word for “lessness” in an essay by his friend E. M. Cioran, a Romanian writer whose philosophy is often analogized to this author’s. This author argued that “art is the apotheosis of solitude” in his first published work, a Schopenhauer-drenched monograph nominally about Marcel Proust. This author used periods to indicate centuries of separation between authors who influenced Joyce’s Finnegans Wake in the title of his essay “Dante . . . Bruno . Vico . . Joyce.” Michel Foucault’s “What is an Author?” takes the question “what matter who’s speaking?” from this author’s Texts for Nothing. This author’s Worstward Ho contains the advice to “try again; fail again; fail better.” This author eschewed his native tongue to write in a language in which “it is easier to write without style,” which he used for a novel that ends “you must go on; I can’t go on; I’ll go on.” The Unnamable is by, for 10 points, what author who used French to write Molloy?
Samuel Beckett [or Samuel Barclay Beckett] ACF Nationals 2018 Editors: Jordan Brownstein, Andrew Hart, Stephen Liu, Aaron Rosenberg, Andrew Wang, Ryan Westbrook Packet by Oklahoma (Maia Karpovich, Finn Bender, Caleb Kendrick, Tracey Hickman) and Michigan B (Colton Graham, Daniel Guo, Rudra Ranganathan, Kazuma Shimanaka, Conor Thompson) Bonuses
8

154931-)
A miner named Joel Sullivan calls a woman of this profession “a dream / my daughter won’t give up” in a poem whose last section features the husband of that woman saying that “afterwards she was everywhere.” Gabrielle Calvocoressi (kahl-voh-koh-RESS-ee) wrote a poem in which ten people describe the last time they saw a person with this job. James Tate imagined a man in this profession telling him that “misfortune / placed these worlds in us” in a poem about his father titled for a “lost” one of these people. In another poem, one of them recalls how he “balanced all, brought all to mind” and states “my country is Kiltartan Cross, my countrymen Kiltartan’s poor” after admitting that “those that I fight I do not hate, those that I guard I do not love.” This is the profession of a man who, driven by a “lonely impulse of delight,” meets his fate “somewhere among the clouds above.” For 10 points, name this profession of an Irishman who “foresees his death” in a W. B. Yeats poem.
aviator(s) [accept synonyms such as aviatrix(es) or pilot(s) or airman or airmen; accept “The Lost Pilot” or “An Irish Airman Foresees His Death”]
8

154963-)
The protagonist describes how one of these people would “cleave the general ear with horrid speech” and “make mad the guilty, and appal the free,” if that person had the same “cue for passion.” One of these characters describes a woman “run barefoot up and down, threatening the flames” with “a clout upon that head / where late the diadem stood” in a speech that describes how that woman saw Pyrrhus mince her husband’s limbs. The protagonist wonders how the leader of these characters “could force his soul so to his own conceit” and asks “what’s Hecuba to him, or he to Hecuba?” in a speech beginning “now I am alone.” The protagonist advises these characters to “speak the speech, I pray you . . . trippingly on the tongue” before they do a dumb show in which Lucianus pours poison in the ear of his sleeping uncle. For 10 points, identify this group of characters who put on The Murder of Gonzago after arriving at Elsinore Castle in Hamlet.
the players from Hamlet [or the actors from Hamlet; accept equivalents such as theater troupe in Hamlet]
8

154974-)
A play that the author described as “a play about [these people] with no [these people] in it” ends with two Professors of Theology, played by women, discussing the “fragile feminine sex.” Henry Packer arrives in a village searching for these people in that play, which was premiered by the Monstrous Regiment Theatre Company and is interspersed with songs such as “Nobody Sings.” In another play, one of these people is saved from death when the drunken rag-and-bone merchant Old Skipps appears and is informed that he’s been dead for hours. One of these people named Alice is the protagonist of Caryl Churchill’s Vinegar Tom. A character who arrives in Cool Clary hoping to be hanged, Thomas Mendip, falls in love with a supposed one of these people named Jennet Jourdemayne in a 1948 play. For 10 points, the title woman of Christopher Fry’s The Lady’s Not for Burning is accused of being what sort of person?
witches [accept answers indicating people accused of being witches]
8

154984-)
In this novella, the protagonist causes a religious maid to weep and quit her job by insisting she is a hypocrite who uses his fits of anger as a “hair shirt.” That protagonist writes of feeling that he had discovered death after reading a Lord Byron poem in a posthumously discovered document addressed to his daughter, a set of Confessions excerpted in italics throughout this novella. In this novella, guests at a banquet honoring a prize-winning painting leave referring to it as “The Painting of the Speech,” because the painting itself is overshadowed by the main character’s speech on it. As a youth, the protagonist loses his love interest Helena to his rival, whose fatal heart attack he induces at the climax of this novella. This novella is often collected with “The Madness of Dr. Montarco” and “San Manuel Bueno, Martyr.” For 10 points, name this novella in which the doctor Joaquin Monegro represents the biblical Cain opposite the title painter, a work of Miguel de Unamuno.
Abel Sánchez: The History of a Passion [or Abel Sánchez: Una historia de pasión]
8

155028-)
The protagonist of this novel fantasizes about using his muffin knife to sever the carotid artery of a female character who was based on a man and who is frequently described as having “greenish” skin. When viewing the room in which a starving friend committed suicide, the protagonist of this novel discovers a paper with his name written on it over and over again. One character in this novel rhapsodizes about El Greco’s View of Toledo during his first dinner with the protagonist and later takes him picking (*) hops. The protagonist of this novel works as a floorwalker at a department store after going broke while trying to get through medical school. That character plans to marry Thorpe Athelny’s daughter after getting over a cruel waitress named Mildred Rogers. For 10 points, name this autobiographical novel about the clubfooted Philip Carey, written by W. Somerset Maugham.
Of Human Bondage &lt;DS&gt;
8

155064-)
In Anne Carson’s translation of the work in which this character appears, this character defines words from that work’s original language, such as “thermonous means hot soul” and “schismos means a cleaving”. This character describes a deity as “Leader of journeys, my destroyer” in an invocation to Apollo. This character describes the setting of the play in which she appears as “a house God (*) hates” where the “floor drips red”. While speaking to a chorus of old men, this character breaks her staff, removes her garland and tears off her priestess’ robe. This character is killed by a queen avenging the death of Iphigenia after this character is brought to Mycenae as a concubine of her play’s title character. For 10 points, identify this character from Aeschylus’ Agamemnon, a Trojan princess cursed to predict the future but not to be believed.
Cassandra &lt;Ed. DS&gt;
8

155073-)
Two characters in this novel swear an oath over The Origin of Species instead of the Bible. A character in this novel who is obsessed with securing her salvation claims that “Lady Cotton is behind this” when she discovers she has been sent to hell. A character in this novel hires a prostitute because she looks like a character he has fallen in love with, but vomits on her bed when he learns that the two women also have the same name. The duplicitous servant (*) Sam dreams of marrying Mary and opening a haberdashery in this novel, mostly set in Lyme Regis, whose title character recounts her seduction by the shipwrecked sailor Varguennes. For 10 points, a love triangle between Tina Freeman, Charles Smithson, and Sarah Woodruff features in which postmodern novel by John Fowles?
The French Lieutenant’s Woman &lt;DS&gt;
8

155107-)
In two paired poems by this author, the first speaker asks "how to keep" beauty from "vanishing away," to which the second responds "give beauty back" to "beauty's self and beauty's giver." This author of "The Leaden Echo and the Golden Echo" wrote another poem that describes the soul crying "what I do is me: for that I came." This man's poems were published posthumously by a friend who served as UK Poet Laureate during World War 1. This author of "As kingfishers catch fire, dragonflies draw flame" repeated “Rural scene, a rural scene / Sweet especial rural scene” at the end of his poem (*) “Binsey Poplars.” This poet praised "the achieve of, the mastery of the thing!" in a poem addressed to "morning's minion," a "dapple-dawn-drawn Falcon." For 10 points, name this Catholic poet who pioneered "sprung rhythm" in poems like "The Windhover" and "Pied Beauty."
Gerard Manley Hopkins &lt;Ed. DS&gt;
8

155125-)
One poet from this group complains about a woman who carries “ June in her eyes, in her heart January.” Another poem by an author from this group describes a bride whose “Finger was so small, the ring / would not stay on” and “Mouth so small . . . her words did break / that they might passage get.” That author from this group wrote “Why so pale and wan fond lover?” and “Ballad upon a Wedding,” and is John (*) Suckling. Another author from this group praised the “brave vibration each way free” and the “liquefaction” of a silk dress in “Upon Julia’s Clothes,” and exhorted some girls to “Gather ye rosebuds while ye may” in “To the Virgins, to Make Much of Time.” For 10 points, name this group of Royalist 17th-century poets like Thomas Carew, Richard Lovelace and Robert Herrick, who drew inspiration from Ben Jonson.
Cavalier poets &lt;DS&gt;
8

155160-)
One poet with this surname created a project called “Printing out the Internet,” which filled a gallery with ten tons of paper. That poet with this surname was widely criticized for creating a found poem out of an autopsy report for his “The Body of Michael Brown.” A quote from a different poet with this surname provides the title of Tony Judt’s book Ill Fares the Land. That passage goes on to state that “a bold peasantry, their country's pride, / When once destroyed, can never be supplied.” An author with this surname wrote about Sophia being rescued from (*) drowning by Mr. Burchell in a novel where Olivia fakes her death and obtains her marriage license to Squire Thornhill. For 10 points, give the shared surname of conceptual poet Kenneth, and the author of “The Deserted Village” and The Vicar of Wakefield, Oliver.
Goldsmith &lt;DS&gt;
8

155174-)
This author is the only female among the four authors who write in the “prophetic” mode, according to E.M. Forster’s Aspects of the Novel. Katherine Frank’s biography of this author diagnosed her with anorexia, while Claire Harman attributed this author’s difficult personality and love of the outdoors to Asperger syndrome. Some of this author’s poetry was rewritten after her death by an author who appears to her right in the “pillar portrait.” This author of “No Coward Soul is Mine” wrote a novel in which a man reflexively catches a falling baby despite hating its (*) alcoholic father, and later helps to raise the child. After that character created by this author starves himself to death, his ghost is spotted walking the moors with that of his love interest. For 10 points, name this author who created Catherine Earnshaw and Heathcliff in Wuthering Heights.
Emily Brontë [prompt on Bronte] &lt;DS&gt;
8

155203-)
This poem references Job with the line “Vacant shuttles / weave the wind.” Mysterious foreigners described in this poem include one “among the Titians” named Hakagawa and one in a “dark room” named Madame Tornquist. This poem describes the evolution of a field where “the goat coughs over night” with the line “Rock, moss, stonecrop, iron, merds.” Anthony Burgess criticized this poem’s author for incorrect use of Latin, noting that the word “juvescence” should read (*) “juvenescence” instead. That neologism appears when the author describes the Second Coming of “Christ the Tiger.” This poem, which was originally intended to be the preface to “The Waste Land,” opens with an epigraph from Measure for Measure, stating “Thou hast neither youth nor age.” For 10 points, name this poem about an “old man in a dry month,” by T. S. Eliot.
“Gerontion” &lt;Ed. DS&gt;
8

155211-)
This author wrote a play in which a woman seeks permission from her gay former lover to publish his forty year old love letters. This author included the line "Certain women should be struck regularly, like gongs" in a play in which two characters who hope to never quarrel again come up with the phrase "Solomon Isaacs" to signal two minutes of silence. In that play by this author, the divorced couple Elyot and (*) Amanda have side-by-side hotel balconies while honeymooning with new spouses. This author of Song at Twilight wrote another play in which Madame Arcati, a medium, is partly responsible for the haunting of Charles Condomine by the ghost of his first wife. For 10 points, name this English playwright of Private Lives and Blithe Spirit.
Noel Coward &lt;Ed. DS&gt;
8

155254-)
This character claims to have driven a man into “a living humor of madness” by washing his liver “as clean as a sound sheep’s heart.” When asked “But is this all for your father?,” this character responds “No, some of it is for my child’s father.” A poem about this character states that “wintered garments must be lined” and “they that reap must sheaf and bind;” that poem is described as a “bad fruit.” This character jilts (*) Phoebe at the altar, causing her to exclaim “If sight and shape be true / Why then, my love adieu.” The actor playing this character tells the audience “If I were a woman, I would kiss as many of you as had beards that pleased me.” This character orders her love interest to woo her while she is disguised as the boy Ganymede, which occurs after she follows Orlando to the Forest of Arden. For 10 points, name the female lead of As You Like It.
Rosalind [prompt on Ganymede before it is read] &lt;DS&gt;
8

155273-)
Paul Griffiths’ novel Let Me Tell You tells this character’s story using only the words this character uses in the play in which this character appears. A poetry collection whose title references a line by this character includes the poems “Toads” and “Church Going.” That collection, Philip Larkin’s The Less Deceived, references this character’s line “I was the more deceived.” That line by this character occurs in a scene where where this character is asked “Are you honest?” and “Are you fair?” and is told “I did (*) love you once” by a man who causes this character to cry “Oh, what a noble mind is here o’erthrown!” This character gives herself some rue in a scene where she distributes flowers to her play’s other characters, and this character’s “muddy death” is revealed by Gertrude. For 10 points, name Hamlet’s girlfriend.
Ophelia &lt;DS&gt;
8

155289-)
(TB) One poem by this author contains the line “There may be heaven, there must be hell.” A monk created by this poet drinks his orange juice in three sips to “frustrate” the Arian, who “drains his at one gulp.” This author of “Time’s Revenges” and “Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister” created a character who compares God to a potter, saying “Perfect the cup as planned!” That poem, which begins “Grow (*) old along with me! The best is yet to be,” is “Rabbi Ben Ezra.” This author’s poem about the painter of Madonna of the Harpies includes the line "a man's reach should exceed his grasp, / Or what's a heaven for?" For 10 points, name this author of Andrea del Sarto and Fra Lippo Lippi, a Victorian poet who was married to Elizabeth Moulton-Barrett.
Robert Browning [prompt on Browning before Elizabeth is read; accept Browning after Elizabeth is read] &lt;DS&gt; Bonuses:
8

155294-)
Paul Griffiths’ novel Let Me Tell You tells this character’s story using only the words this character uses in the play in which this character appears. A poetry collection whose title references a line by this character includes the poems “Toads” and “Church Going.” That collection, Philip Larkin’s The Less Deceived, references this character’s line “I was the more deceived.” That line by this character occurs in a scene where where this character is asked “Are you honest?” and “Are you fair?” and is told “I did (*) love you once” by a man who causes this character to cry “Oh, what a noble mind is here o’erthrown!” This character gives herself some rue in a scene where she distributes flowers to her play’s other characters, and this character’s “muddy death” is revealed by Gertrude. For 10 points, name Hamlet’s girlfriend.
Ophelia &lt;DS&gt;
8

155310-)
(TB) One poem by this author contains the line “There may be heaven, there must be hell.” A monk created by this poet drinks his orange juice in three sips to “frustrate” the Arian, who “drains his at one gulp.” This author of “Time’s Revenges” and “Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister” created a character who compares God to a potter, saying “Perfect the cup as planned!” That poem, which begins “Grow (*) old along with me! The best is yet to be,” is “Rabbi Ben Ezra.” This author’s poem about the painter of Madonna of the Harpies includes the line "a man's reach should exceed his grasp, / Or what's a heaven for?" For 10 points, name this author of Andrea del Sarto and Fra Lippo Lippi, a Victorian poet who was married to Elizabeth Moulton-Barrett.
Robert Browning [prompt on Browning before Elizabeth is read; accept Browning after Elizabeth is read] &lt;DS&gt; Bonuses:
8

155315-)
Edmund Gosse’s review of this novel asks “What has providence done to [the author] . . . that he should shake his fist as his creator?” The postscript to this novel says that it was burned by a bishop before being discovered as a “moral work.” A character in this novel once walked into a pond with bare legs, shouting ‘Move on, aunty! This is no sight for modest eyes!” When called a “flirt,” that character responds that she is “a woman tossed about, all alone, with aberrant passions” and states “I am not really Mrs. Richard (*) Phillotson.” In this novel, the title character’s love interest refuses to have sex with him until she becomes jealous of a woman who had his baby in Australia, Arabella Donn. For 10 points, name this novel about a working-class boy who falls in love with Sue Bridehead while trying to get into university, the final novel by Thomas Hardy.
Jude the Obscure &lt;DS&gt;
8

155342-)
In a story from this movement, the narrator remembers his mother buying a new carpet to replace one “covered with blood from dad’s dying.” A novel from this movement follows an orphan who falls in love with an older actress, but abandons her to marry the daughter of a rich factory owner. In a story from this movement, a boy hides stolen money in a drain pipe and spites the governor by deliberately (*) losing an athletic event. This movement, which includes John Braine’s novel Room at the Top, had its title coined to promote a play in which Helena encourages her pregnant friend to leave her candy seller husband, but ends up having an affair with him. For 10 points, name this movement associated with Alan Sillitoe’s “The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner” and Jimmy Porter’s rants against British society in John Osborne’s Look Back in Anger.
the Angry Young Men [accept kitchen sink realism] &lt;DS&gt;
8

155362-)
Alfred Kazin called this poem a “hymn to pure being” in the introduction to the “Portable” version of its author’s work. The first draft of this poem, which contained an extra stanza describing “horrid ribs” that “dare / steep / in the well of sanguine woe,” appears in Dante Gabriel Rossetti’s transcription of its author’s notebook. In The Visionary Company, Harold Bloom writes that the speaker of this poem becomes more sure of the answer as he asks each of its fourteen rhetorical questions, which include: “when thy heart began to beat, / What dread hand? & what dread feet?” and “what the hammer? What the chain? / In what furnace was thy brain?” Northrop Frye took the title of his study of this poem’s author from its rhyme-breaking lines: “What immortal hand or eye, / Could frame thy fearful symmetry?” For 10 points, name this poem about an animal “burning bright,” by William Blake.
“The Tyger”
7

155388-)
In Aspects of the Novel, E. M. Forster deems this author a mediocre novelist yet a good storyteller, paraphrasing his book in which a man is able to pay off all his debts when a treasure chest is miraculously found on his property. An astrologer foretells that the fifth, tenth, and twenty-first years of a newborn boy will be dangerous, at the start of a novel by this author that precedes The Antiquary in a twenty-seven book series. In a book by this author that is often regarded as the first historical novel, the protagonist’s visits to the hideout of the outlaw Donald Bean Lean and the hillside castle of Flora MacIvor inspire him to take up the Jacobite cause. In a later novel by him that was billed as being “by the author of Waverley,” the protagonist defeats a masked knight at a joust, then bestows the honor of “Queen of the Tournament” upon Lady Rowena. For 10 points, name this Scottish novelist of Ivanhoe.
Sir Walter Scott
7

155399-)
In a speech about reputation, a character in this play laments that “I have lost the immortal part of myself, and what remains is beastial.” The mother of this play’s title character gave him a magic cloth that she received from an Egyptian sorceress. The antagonist of this play warns its title character about that “green-eyed monster” of (*)jealousy. The protagonist of this play smothers his wife after Iago uses a handkerchief to indicate Cassio is having an affair with Desdemona. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare tragedy about a title “Moor of Venice.”
Othello [The Tragedy of Othello, the Moor of Venice] &lt;Sherry Xie&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155419-)
The second scene of a play by this author ends with a discussion of how Robert enjoyed reading Yeats (“Yates”) at dawn in Torcello. That play by this author traces Jerry’s affair with Emma backwards in time. In a play by this author of Betrayal, Meg plans the title event for Stanley, and Goldberg and McCann take him away. Two characters in a play by this author debate the meaning of the phrase(*) “light the kettle” before the title device reveals that Gus is to be killed by Ben. For 10 points, name this British playwright of The Dumbwaiter and The Birthday Party.
Harold Pinter &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155432-)
A poem that shares its title with this poem wonders, “What powerful but unrecorded race once dwelt in that annihilated place.” This poem shares its name with a poem published by the author’s friend Horace Smith, and the speaker of this poem describes a “wrinkled lip” and a “sneer of cold command.” This poem is framed as a conversation with an “antique(*) traveler from a foreign land,” who describes a statue where the words “Look on my works, ye mighty, and despair!” are inscribed. For 10 points, name this Percy Shelley poem about a statue of a “king of kings.”
"Ozymandias" &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155444-)
A speech that is made at this character is about a fairy who plagues ladies’ lips with blisters and is drawn in a chariot made of “an empty hazel-nut.” This character is the target of a speech about Queen Mab made by a friend while travelling to attend a party. This character declares “I am fortune’s fool!” after killing his wife’s cousin,(*) Tybalt. This member of the Montague family is married to a member of the Capulet family by Friar Lawrence. For 10 points, name this title character of a Shakespeare tragedy, the lover of Juliet.
ANSWER: Romeo [or Romeo Montague; prompt on Montague until it is read; do NOT accept any other Montagues, such as “Old Montague” or “Lord Montague”] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155456-)
This man’s last novel takes place at Howth Castle and Environs, where the dead body of “Earwicker” vanishes while being served as a meal at the title event. In a novel by this author, the protagonist becomes a devout Catholic after listening to Father Arnall’s hell sermon. This author of Finnegans Wake created Stephen(*) Dedalus, who appears with Leopold and Molly Bloom in a novel detailing each of their experiences on June 16th, 1904. For 10 points, name this Irish author of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man and Ulysses.
ANSWER: James Joyce [James Augustine Aloysius Joyce] &lt;Sherry Xie&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt; Bonuses
2

155457-)
In this novel, Moses claims that there are seven Sundays a week in Sugarcandy Mountain. In this book, Mr. Pilkington and Mr. Frederick help Mr. Jones to fight the Battle of the Cowshed. Near the end of this novel, Benjamin fails to rescue a character whose personal motto is “I will(*) work harder!” In this book, the lovable Boxer is sent to “retirement” at a glue factory. In this novel, Stalin and Trotsky are represented by the pigs Napoleon and Snowball. For 10 points, name this allegorical novel by George Orwell.
ANSWER: Animal Farm &lt;Sherry Xie&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155472-)
A character in this novel is shocked to see students at Eton laughing at footage of Christians who punish themselves with whips. In this novel, people are indoctrinated by hypnopaedia with phrases such as “civilization is sterilization.” This novel describes the people-creating Bokanovsky process and the consumption of(*) soma. In this novel, the World Controller Mustapha Mond exiles Bernard Marx, who introduces John the Savage to civilization.  For 10 points, name this dystopian novel set in the year 632 After Ford, which was written by Aldous Huxley.
Brave New World &lt;Spencer Johnson&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155485-)
A clergyman in this novel reads a collection of Fordyce’s sermons to a family. In this novel, the weak singing of a sister at the Netherfield ball causes the protagonist of this novel embarrassment. This novel begins by noting that “a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife.” Near the end of this novel, the childhood friend of George(*) Wickham prevents a scandal by convincing him to marry Lydia. For 10 points, name this novel by Jane Austen about the romance between Elizabeth Bennet and Mr. Darcy.
Pride and Prejudice &lt;Sherry Xie&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155500-)
A narrator of this novel dreams that a ghost’s hand reaches into his room and breaks his window. A character in this novel throws hot applesauce in the face of a character who insults his hair. A protagonist of this book is adopted from an orphanage in Liverpool. This novel’s narrators are Mr. Lockwood, who rents a room at(*) Thrushcross Grange, and the maid Nelly Dean. In this novel, Isabella Linton marries Heathcliff, who loves Catherine Earnshaw. For 10 points, name this only published novel by Emily Bronte.
Wuthering Heights &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155510-)
This man described a “rider distorted and pale, with the dew on his brow and the rust on his mail” in a poem about an Assyrian king who “came down like the wolf on the fold.” This author talks of “a heart whose love is innocent!” in his poem about a woman who is described as being “like the night, of cloudless climes and starry skies.” This author of “The Destruction of (*)Sennacherib” (“seh-NAK-er-ihb”)  mockingly dedicated to Robert Southey an epic poem about a man who is easily seduced by women. For 10 points, name this English Romantic poet of “She Walks in Beauty” and Don Juan (“Don Joo-an”).
Lord Byron [George Gordon, Lord Byron] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155522-)
In a twist ending to a novel by this author, Dr. James Sheppard is the new sidekick of a detective until it is revealed that he killed the title character. This author wrote a book where Justice Wargrave and nine killers are invited to Soldier Island. This author of The Murder of Roger Ackroyd wrote about a (*)Belgian detective who uses his “little grey cells” to prove that every passenger on a train murdered Mr. Ratchett. For 10 points, name this British author of And Then There Were None and Murder on the Orient Express, who created the detective Hercule Poirot (“Pwah-roh”).
Agatha Christie &lt;Alex Harmata&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155549-)
A jester in this play disguises himself as Sir Topas in order to continue pranking a steward in love with his mistress. In this play, a fake love letter addressed to M,O,A,I causes the steward Malvolio to wear some horrible-looking yellow stockings. This play begins with Duke Orsino proclaiming “If music be the food of love, play on!” In this play, the lady Olivia falls in love with a woman who (*)disguises herself as the man Cesario after a shipwreck off the coast of Illyria. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean play about the twins Viola and Sebastian.
Twelfth Night [Twelfth Night, or What You Will] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155560-)
This author ended an essay by addressing Coleridge’s idea that “a great mind is androgynous.” That essay by this author praises Jane Austen for being able to write fiction without access to the title place, which Judith Shakespeare lacked. This author of “A Room of One’s Own” wrote a novel where the World War I veteran Septimus(*) Smith commits suicide on the night of the protagonist’s party. In a novel by this woman, Lily Briscoe and the Ramsay family travel to the title location. For 10 points, name this British feminist author of Mrs. Dalloway and To the Lighthouse.
Virginia Woolf [Adeline Virginia Woolf; or Adeline Virginia Stephen] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155586-)
A painter in this novel uses another character as a model for Thomas Aquinas in order to draw a sketch of this novel’s protagonist. A banker in this novel is blackmailed by John Raffles, his former business partner, for hiding the existence of a poet who appears in this novel. A clergyman in this novel dies before he can complete his book The(*) Key to All Mythologies. That character in this novel, Edward Casaubon, threatens to disinherit his wife if she marries Will Ladislaw. For 10 points, name this George Eliot novel, a “study of provincial life” that centers on Dorothea Brooke.
Middlemarch [Middlemarch: a Study of Provincial Life] &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155616-)
The protagonist of a novel by this man meets the Larkins sisters at a lavish funeral thrown for his father. In a novel by this author of The History of Mr. Polly, the Hyena-Swine kills the companion of Prendick. The unnamed protagonist of a novel by this man is accompanied by Weena while encountering the Morlocks, who terrorize the(*) Eloi. This author wrote about Martian invaders of Earth, who are stopped by bacteria that they never develop a resistance to. For 10 points, name this British author of The Time Machine and The War of the Worlds.
H. G. Wells [Herbert George Wells] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155639-)
In Evelyn Waugh’s (“Waah’s”) novel A Handful of Dust, Tony Last is forced to read this author’s works to Mr. Todd. The title character of a novel by this man is sent to Dotheboys Hall, which is run by the one-eyed man, Squeers. This author of Nicholas Nickleby wrote a novel where Sydney(*) Carton takes Charles Darnay’s place on the guillotine.This man created the wealthy benefactor Abel Magwitch, who adopts “Pip.” For 10 points, name this British author of Great Expectations and A Tale of Two Cities.
Charles Dickens [Charles John Huffam Dickens] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed.Jacob&gt;
2

155652-)
A character in this collection is branded on his buttocks with a hot iron poker after he farts in the face of the clerk Absolon. In that story from this collection, the student Nicholas seduces Alisoun, the wife of the carpenter John. This collection includes a story where Theseus imprisons Palamon and Arcite, who then fight over Emily. The stories in this collection are told by a(*) group of pilgrims travelling to visit the shrine of Thomas Becket. For 10 points, name this collection by Geoffrey Chaucer that includes stories told by the Knight and the Wife of Bath.
The Canterbury Tales [Tales of Canterbury] &lt;Jacob O’Rourke&gt;
2

155670-)
The speaker of a poem by this author is told by a wise man to “give pearls away and rubies but keep your fancy free.” This man justified “moping melancholy” verse in a poem that declares that “malt does more than Milton can to justify God’s ways to man.” This poet of “Terence, this is stupid stuff” and “When I was one-and-twenty” wrote a poem addressed to a “townsman of a stiller town” who (*)died after being carried “through the market place.” For 10 points, name this English poet who included “To an Athlete Dying Young” in his collection A Shropshire Lad.
A.E. Housman [Alfred Edward Housman] &lt;Joe Stitz&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155682-)
A poem by this author praises a man who “could not cease in the inglorious arts of peace,” and compares him to “three-fork’d lightning” that blasts off Caesar’s head. A poem by this author of “An Horatian Ode Upon Cromwell’s Return from Ireland” declares that “I would love you ten years before the flood” and wonders if his love will “refuse until the conversion of the Jews.” This man wrote that "the grave’s a fine and(*) private place" in a poem that warns of "Time's wingèd chariot hurrying near." For 10 points, name this English poet of “To His Coy Mistress.”
Andrew Marvell &lt;Carrie Derner&gt;/&lt;ed. Jacob&gt;
2

155698-)
This poem describes “the hour when Lips that would kiss / Form prayers to broken stone,” and says that those “stone images receive / The supplication of a dead man’s hand / Under the twinkle of a fading star.” This poem says “The eyes reappear / As the perpetual star / Multifoliate star / Of death’s twilight kingdom.” One of this poem’s epigraphs references Guy Fawkes and says “A penny for the Old Guy,” and the other epigraph quotes from Heart of Darkness. A nursery-rhyme-like section of this poem says “Here we go round the prickly pear,” and its last section alternates between “For Thine is the Kingdom” and “Life is very long.” For 10 points, name this poem by T. S. Eliot whose last lines read “This is the way the world ends / Not with a bang but with a whimper.”
“The Hollow Men” &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155706-)
In the last act of this play, one of its characters appears clean-shaven and well-dressed for the first time, but can’t choke out any coherent words. A character in this play is repeatedly surprised that people know what the fried bread she made is, and serves up cornflakes for breakfast until she runs out. In an interrogation in this play, another character is asked “is the number 846 necessary or possible?” and answers “both!” A character “knows” that she was the “belle of the ball” at the title event of this play, which Petey skipped to play chess, but which Goldberg and McCann were glad to attend. For 10 points, name this play in which Meg gives Stanley Webber a drum before the title celebration, by Harold Pinter.
The Birthday Party &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155713-)
Martin Gardner argued that John Tenniel was given the option of drawing a character with this profession as a baronet or a butterfly because both words fit the meter of the poem in which he appears, thus refuting religious interpretations of that character. Another character with this occupation marries Dinah after his first love is convicted of murder for leaving the love-child that she conceived with Arthur in a field outside Hayslope. This is the profession of a George Eliot hero who falls in love with Hetty Sorrel named Adam Bede. A character with this occupation says “You’ve had a pleasant run!” to a set of oysters that he has eaten with his companion, with whom he discusses “cabbages and kings.” For 10 points, identify this profession of the Walrus’s companion in a Lewis Carroll poem.
carpenter &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

155741-)
In this sort of place, a man says “I wish I was a frog. Or a eel!” After he reads her name written in one of these places, a character imagines his father as a “square, stout, dark man” and his mother Georgiana as “freckled and sickly.” Mr. Pumblechook and Mr. Wopsle search through one of these places before heading out onto a marsh. “A man who had been soaked in water, and smothered in mud, and lamed by stones, and cut by flints,” says “Keep still, you little devil, or I’ll cut your throat!” in one of these places, telling a boy to stop crying before threatening to eat his cheeks. A character first seen in this location asks for a file and wittles. For 10 points, in the first chapter of Great Expectations, Pip meets Magwitch in what sort of place while looking at the tombstones of his family?
churchyard [or graveyard; or cemetery] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

155763-)
This novel’s second section is introduced as “Some things are of that nature as to make one’s fancy chuckle, while his heart doth ache.” Mr. Francis compares his school to a location from this book in the second volume of Ngugi’s autobiography titled for that place, In the House of the Interpreter. This novel was written shortly after its author’s autobiographical Grace Abounding to the Chief of Sinners while he was imprisoned in Bedford Jail. The hero of this book is threatened with Mount Sinai falling on his head and is advised to abandon Mr. Worldly Wiseman before passing through the Wicket-Gate. For 10 points, Christian passes through Vanity Fair and the Slough of Despond in what allegory by John Bunyan?
The Pilgrim’s Progress [The Pilgrim's Progress from This World, to That Which Is to Come] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

155767-)
T. S. Eliot claimed that this drama was “one of the stupidest and most uninspired plays ever written.” A scene from this play is depicted in the Peacham drawing, which is the sole surviving contemporary depiction of its author’s plays. The central plot of this play is set into action by the title character’s callous sacrifice of Alarbus. Another scene in this play features a woman writing the names of her attackers using a stick in her mouth. Towards the end of this play, the mixed-race Aaron lies dying, half-buried, while regretting only that he had not done more evil. In this play, Chiron and Demetrius, the rapists of Lavinia, are baked in a pie which is eaten by Tamora, Queen of the Goths. For 10 points, name this bloody Shakespeare tragedy whose title character is a revenge-wracked Roman general.
Titus Andronicus &lt;The above question is for the category Literature Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
7

155791-)
This man wrote about how “like a yellow silken scarf, the thick fog hangs along the quay (kee).” In a poem dedicated to Marcel Schwob, this writer enjoined a “lovely languorous” creature to “sing me all your memories” and described it as “half woman and half animal!” A voice whispers “That fellow’s got to swing” about a man who “walked amongst the Trial Men in a suit of shabby gray” in one of this man’s poems. This author of “Symphony in Yellow” and “The Sphinx” wrote a poem that claims “The coward does it with a kiss, the brave man with a sword!” in explaining that “Each man kills the thing he loves.” That poem describes his imprisonment for homosexuality at its title location. For 10 points, name this Irish author of “The Ballad of Reading Gaol (jail).”
Oscar Wilde [Oscar Fingal O’Flahertie Wills Wilde] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

155813-)
After looking at this object, a character thinks “no, the other was also” this thing, “for nothing was simply one thing.” A person who lives near this object has a son afflicted with “tuberculous hip,” and other characters decide to bring him parcels after ruminating over “what does one send” to this place. A character has “had her vision” when she finishes a painting with a single bold stroke upon seeing this object. A trip to this place almost gets cancelled when the children aren’t ready in the morning, and earlier, various characters repeatedly declare that they can’t travel to this place tomorrow because the wind isn’t right, among other reasons. For 10 points, identify this building that only Cam, James, Lily Briscoe, and Mr. Ramsay end up journeying to in a Virginia Woolf novel.
The Lighthouse [or To The Lighthouse; or Godrevy Lighthouse] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155816-)
A novel by an author with this surname follows a voice in Odilo’s head that is astounded by how the Holocaust is “creating a new race” out of ashes, because it experiences time backwards. In a novel by another author with this surname, the protagonist’s paper on shipbuilding techniques is plagiarized in an Italian translation, and another character claims to have attempted suicide as a manipulative tool after Catchpole dumps her. That novel, featuring Margaret Peel, by an author with this surname follows a history professor who passes out after giving a drunken lecture on “Merrie England.” For 10 points, give this last name shared by an author named Martin and his father, the author of Lucky Jim, named Kingsley.
Amis [or Kingsley Amis; or Martin Amis] (The first novel is Time’s Arrow.) &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155853-)
A character claims that bad members of this profession are like pantomimes since at “a small push” they “reveal the actor underneath.” That character’s father is fond of a story about a person in this profession who killed a tiger that was lying under a dining room table. A member of this profession tries to teach Reginald Cardinal about “the facts of life” and listens to Twice a Week or More to learn witty banter for his conversations with Mr. Farraday. That protagonist of this profession reads the books of Mrs. Jane Symons and takes a drive through England to visit Miss Kenton. For 10 points, identify this profession of Stevens, the protagonist of Kazuo Ishiguro’s The Remains of the Day, who works at Darlington Hall.
butler [prompt on servant; do not accept “housekeeper,” since that is Miss Kenton’s title] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Tim Morrison&gt;
7

155856-)
The central character of one of this author’s poems finishes addressing an invading king before “headlong from the mountain’s height, deep in the roaring tide he plunged to endless night.” The lines “Here rests his head upon the lap of earth, a youth to fortune and to fame unknown” begin an epitaph by him found on his tomb in Stoke Poges (POH-jiss). This poet addressed “fields beloved in vain, where once my careless childhood strayed, a stranger yet to pain!” in a poem which ends “No more; where ignorance is bliss, ’tis folly to be wise.” This man described how “far from the madding crowd’s ignoble strife, their seer wishes never learned to stray” in a poem that opens “The curfew tolls the knell of parting day.” For 10 points, name this English poet of “Ode on a Distant Prospect of Eton College” and “Elegy in a Country Churchyard.”
Thomas Gray &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt; 2018 National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 8 – Bonuses
7

155858-)
A character in this book describes how “I incline to Cain’s heresy… I let my brother go to the devil in his own way.” A “Sawbones” in this novel who is “as emotional as a bagpipe” turns “sick and white with the desire to kill” another character in this novel. In a “full statement” at the end of this novel, one of the central characters describes how Poole was unable to find any salt in London and mourns the last time he “can think his own thoughts or see his own face (now how sadly altered!) in the glass.” Richard Enfield goes on frequent walks with Gabriel Utterson in this book, during which he tells of a man who was more like a juggernaut than a person. For 10 points, name this novel by Robert Louis Stevenson about a scientist who creates a potion which turns him into a monstrous alter-ego.
The Strange Case of Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

155875-)
The last entry in the first collection of these poems opens by describing the “concave womb” of a hill. That collection’s dedication, formatted to appear like a Roman inscription, is to “the well-wishing adventurer in setting forth.” The first section of these poems was possibly inspired by Henry Wriothesley (rizz-lee), who may be described by the line “the master-mistress of my passion.” The first poem in this series describes how “beauty’s rose might never die” if “from fairest creatures we desire increase.” Another poem in this group mentions that “eternal summer shall not fade” but that “rough winds do shake the darling buds of May.” The poem “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?” is part of, for 10 points, what group of fourteen-line poems by the author of Hamlet?
Shakespeare’s sonnets [or sonnets by William Shakespeare; or equivalents] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
7

155886-)
This character doesn’t accompany his friend at a sermon by the Mormon William Hitch on a moving train. Francis Cromarty is unable to convince this character not to spend 2,000 pounds on an elephant, which he insists he needs. Aouda proposes to this character, who had earlier saved her from sacrifice by Hindu priests. He is suspected of robbing a bank by Detective Fix, and Captain Speedy of the Henrietta is convinced to change course when this character buys the boat to sail to Liverpool. This character’s journey is made with Passepartout and ends on the steps of London’s Reform Club. For 10 points, name this adventurer who circumnavigates the globe in less than three months in a Jules Verne novel.
Phileas Fogg [or Fogg] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature European and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

155896-)
Rosalia van Beer kills a pet named for this character in Raymond Postgate’s Verdict of Twelve. This character shares his living quarters with a Houdan who is assumed to be an Anabaptist. This character is last seen drinking from a stream before crossing a plank bridge and running into the bushes. A hymn addressed to this character describes how “his thoughts were red thoughts and his teeth were white” and how “his enemies called for peace but he brought them death.” “Red flowers in their season and scarlet berries in the winter-time were offered at” the shrine of this character, for whom nutmeg is stolen on special occasions, including once when he is credited with Mrs. De Ropp’s acute toothache. For 10 points, identify this “polecat-ferret” who kills Conradin’s aunt in a story by Saki.
Sredni Vashtar [do not accept or prompt on “Sredni” or “Vashtar” alone] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

155898-)
In a failed play from this period, the character Proteus turns into a lion, a crocodile, and a dragon onstage. In a play from this period, a picture of the courtesan Angellica Bianca is stolen by the title character, whose name is Willmore. Many “spectaculars” or “machine plays” were produced during this period, including works like Albion and Albanius and King Arthur. During this period, the Duke’s Company funded the Dorset Garden Theater. A play from this period has a “china scene” filled with double entendres and is about Horner, who pretends to be impotent to sleep with married women. The Rover and The Country Wife were from this period. William Wycherley, Aphra Behn, and John Dryden wrote in, for 10 points, what era whose bawdy theater was promoted by the return of Charles II to the throne?
Restoration period &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt; 2018 National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 10 – Bonuses
7

155904-)
In a play by this writer, a character says “there are limits to what a mule or an ass will stand; but Man will suffer himself to be degraded.” This author wrote a play about a Christian slave who helps an animal with a wounded paw, which then spares him in a gladiatorial execution. This man endowed the creation of a phonetic alphabet for English, in which only that play, Androcles and the Lion, has been published. “Don Juan in Hell” is an irregular third act to his play in which the Jewish anarchist Mendoza and Jack Tanner are left in charge of Ann Whitefield. In a play by this man, the professor of phonetics Henry Higgins tries to teach working-class Eliza Doolittle to pass for a wealthy, cultured person. For 10 points, name this playwright of Man and Superman and Pygmalion.
George Bernard Shaw &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155933-)
The peasant Richard Gettner beseeches Countess Rosmarin Ostenberg for rescue during the 1848 uprising in Hungary in a play by this author. He also wrote a modern version of a mystery play set in Steyning in his drama about St. Cuthman. This playwright of The Dark is Light Enough and The Boy With a Cart wrote a comedy in which Tappercoom is confused by a man’s insistence on making new confessions. Like Gore Vidal, this author did uncredited rewrites on the Ben-Hur script. He wrote a play in which Nicholas Devize claims the right to marry Alizon Eliot after claiming to kill Humphrey. Jennet Jourdemayne is accused of turning Old Skipps into a dog in a play by this man that starts with Thomas Mendip seeking to be executed. For 10 points, name this author of The Lady’s Not For Burning.
Christopher Fry [or The Dark is Light Enough until “this author” is read] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Penelope Ashe&gt;
7

155941-)
A character learns about this place from a classmate asking him if he will go there as she “turned a silver bracelet round and round her wrist.” A character’s aunt worries that this place might be “some Freemason affair,” and that character notices “the words Caf Chantant written in coloured lamps” at this location. In a conversation overheard at this location, two people argue over whether someone said some unspecified thing. At this location, one character sees himself “as a creature driven and derided by vanity” and his “eyes burned with anguish and anger.” After arriving at this place, the narrator hears only “the fall of the coins” as “all the stalls were closed and the greater part of the hall was in darkness.” For 10 points, name this Eastern-themed marketplace, the title location of a story from Dubliners by James Joyce.
Araby [or the bazaar in the story “Araby”] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

155969-)
This character is described as being united with the protagonist as “one thing, like the wall and the rock growing out from it” in a novel where she can only articulate nonsense syllables such as “dool-dool” and “Warovvish.” Nora Chadwick said that this character represented an early vision of a Valkyrie, and J. R. R. Tolkien argued that the appearance of this character does not constitute a distinct third and middle section of the poem. This character’s treasure is said to shine like “the torch of the firmament.” Unferth lends a sword to a hero to pursue this character. The mysterious word “aglæc-wif” (ah-gleck wiff), which Seamus Heaney (SHAY-mus HAY-nee) translated as “monstrous hell-bride,” describes this character. For 10 points, name this monster that seeks revenge on Beowulf for killing her son.
Grendel’s mother [or Grendles modor] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

155976-)
Caroline Spurgeon highlighted the importance of this play’s frequent imagery of old, ill-fitting clothes. An essay on this play describes how one of its scenes changes the tone by “reflecting upon it a peculiar awfulness and depth of solemnity;” that essay opens by noting that “from my boyish days I had always felt a great perplexity on one point” in this play. In an essay nominally about this play, A.C. Bradley’s habit of considering literary characters as real people was mocked by L.C. Knights, who asked how many children a character in this play had. This tragedy is the subject of a Thomas de Quincey essay concerning its “knocking at the gate” scene, which follows the murder of King Duncan. For 10 points, name this so-called “Scottish play” by William Shakespeare.
Macbeth &lt;The above question is for the category Literature Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt;
7

155993-)
This poem describes two characters in bed together as “Like two pigeons in one nest / Folded in each other’s wings” and “Like two wands of ivory / Tipp’d with gold for awful kings.” A character in this poem mentions a grave where “to this day no grass will grow” in a moralizing tale. When a character in this poem says “I have no coin; / To take were to purloin,” she is answered “You have much gold upon your head.” The title characters of this poem are described “hobbling down the glen” as one character asks “Who knows upon what soil they fed / Their hungry thirsty roots?” This poem begins by describing the “cry” heard “morning and evening:” “Come buy our orchard fruits, / Come buy, come buy.” For 10 points, name this poem in which Lizzie and Laura resist the persistent title creatures, by Christina Rossetti.
“Goblin Market” &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

156008-)
In a novel from this country, a boy named Anodos sings a woman trapped as a marble statue back to life; that novel is Phantastes. A long modernist poem from this country claims that “The function, as it seems to me, / O’ Poetry is to bring to be” and includes a “Letter to Dostoevski.” A poet from this country frequently used a meter called “standard Habbie,” and another wrote A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle. This country’s Kailyard school included J. M. Barrie. A poet from this country addressed a “Wee, sleekit, cowrin, tim’rous beastie” in a poem that notes “The best-laid schemes o’ mice an’ men / Gang aft agley.” That poem is “To a Mouse.” For 10 points, name this home country of George MacDonald, Hugh MacDiarmid, and Robert Burns.
Scotland [prompt on United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; prompt on UK; prompt on Great Britain; do not accept or prompt on “England”] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

156025-)
This author recounted how a man shouted “Buttered toast!” through a megaphone to enemies nearby. This author lamented the tendency for people in a particular country to put things off by saying “mañana” in a book that begins by recalling his wonder at arriving in a city where everyone wore overalls and tipping was banned by the anarchist government. This author failed to free Georges Kopp after recovering from a sniper wound to the neck, as recounted in a memoir that also describes three days he spent atop the Poliorama theater in Las Ramblas defending POUM headquarters against Stalinists during the May Days in Barcelona. For 10 points, name this English author who depicted his time fighting in the Spanish Civil War in Homage to Catalonia.
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

156041-)
This poet wrote the line “If the heats of hate and lust / In the house of flesh are strong, / Let me mind the house of dust / Where my sojourn shall be long.” This poet wrote “now, of my threescore years and ten, / twenty will not come again,” in a poem whose title object “stands about the woodland ride / Wearing white for Eastertide.” In one poem by this author, the narrator agrees with a character who tells him that “the heart out of the bosom / was never given in vain” now that he has passed the title age where there’s “no use to talk to him;” earlier that “wise man” tells him “give crowns and pounds and guineas / But not your heart away.” For 10 points, name this poet of “When I Watch the Living Meet,” “Loveliest of Trees,” and “When I was One-and-Twenty.”
Alfred Edward Housman &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by John Marvin&gt;
7

156059-)
This poet described a “towery city and branchy between towers” in a poem titled for a philosopher who he thought of “in any inscape of the sky or sea.” This poet described securing “the achieve of, the mastery of the thing!” Many of this poet’s verses were not widely available until they were disseminated after his death by Robert Bridges. This man scanned several of his poems with symbols known as outrides and began one verse “I caught this morning morning’s minion.” The editors of a Jesuit magazine “dared not print” a poem he wrote about the death of five Franciscan nuns fleeing Germany. For 10 points, name this British poet who used sprung rhythm in “The Windhover” and “The Wreck of the Deutschland.”
Gerard Manley Hopkins &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Daoud Jackson&gt;
7

156069-)
In a novel from this country, an elderly woman declares her interest in eliminating woodworm from furniture, and that woman’s anthropologist son becomes the love interest of the spinster protagonist. In another novel from this country, an aristocratic girl is ostracized for becoming engaged to her freshly widowed uncle, who is nicknamed the “Lecherous Lecturer.” A woman complains about having seen “something nasty in the woodshed” in a novel from this country about Flora Poste, who visits her relatives, the Starkadders, in the countryside. The James Tait Black Memorial Prize is awarded in this setting of the novels Excellent Women and Love in a Cold Climate by Barbara Pym and Nancy Mitford, respectively. For 10 points, name this setting of Stella Gibbons’s Cold Comfort Farm, which takes place in Sussex.
England [or the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; or the UK] &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

156087-)
This author described meeting a “worthy clerk,” ‘whose rhetoric so sweet” illuminated all of poetry. Some scholars believe this author was present at the wedding of the Duke of Clarence and Violante Visconti, at which he may have met two of his chief influences. This author drew upon an earlier Italian book when writing his Legend of Good Women. This author adapted Boccaccio’s (bo-KAH-cho’s) Teseida to write a story in which Emily’s love is battled for by Palamon and Arcite. This author may have been influenced by Italian humanism while serving in the court of King Edward III, and he imitated one of Petrarch’s sonnets in his poem Troilus and Criseyde. For 10 points, name this author whose continental influences are clear in the Clerk’s and Knight’s Tales, two of his Canterbury Tales.
Geoffrey Chaucer &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Joseph Krol&gt; 2018 National All-Star Academic Tournament Round 19 – Bonuses
7

156092-)
In a poem named after these animals by Patrick Galvin, the narrator’s father remembers “his days / With the Royal Munster Fusiliers” while speaking to these animals. In another poem, “A shudder in the loins” of one of these animals “engenders / The broken wall, the burning roof and tower / And Agamemnon dead.” That poem, a Petrarchan sonnet, describes the “terrified vague fingers” of a woman whose thighs are “caressed / By dark webs.” In a poem that begins “The trees are in their autumn beauty,” the narrator writes that “The nineteenth autumn has come upon me / Since I first made my count” of these animals. That poem is about seeing “nine-and fifty” of them “at Coole.” William Butler Yeats wrote about Leda’s encounter with, for 10 points, what kind of large, white bird?
swans &lt;The above question is for the category Literature British Non-Shakespeare and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

156117-)
9. In a poem, this character’s monologue anticipates an audience’s possible criticism of him before describing the “conjurer’s profession” of writing. This character compares God to a freshwater fish attempting to escape to salt water; he also argues there is no afterlife because God “doth His worst in this our life.” An essay about this character, who speaks last in Auden’s “The Sea and the Mirror,” compares “lettered” and “unlettered” cultures; that essay by Stephen Greenblatt is (*) “Learning to Curse.” This character, who eats food that he calls “scamels,” demands to be called X in a post-colonialist play by Aime Cesaire. In the play he first appears in, this character enters the service of Stephano and Trinculo, and is the son of a sorceress who worships Setebos. For 10 points, name this son of Sycorax and slave of Prospero in Shakespeare’s The Tempest.
Caliban &lt;JC, Drama&gt;
8

156122-)
14. The sixth stanza of one poem imagines that the “daughters” of this animal “can share / something of every paddler’s heritage.” A poem consisting of observations made during the “nineteenth autumn” says of these animals “Their hearts have not grown old / Passion or conquest, wander where they will.” A poem titled for this animal takes the form of a Shakespearean sonnet for the first eight lines and a Petrarchan sonnet for the last six; that poem’s eleventh line is split in two halves after its tenth, which mentions (*) “the broken wall, the burning roof and tower.” A “shudder in the loins” due to one of these animals is described in that poem, which speaks of the “indifferent beak” of one of them. The speaker meditates upon his age in a poem that observes “nine and fifty” of these animals at Coole. For 10 points, name this bird which, in a W. B. Yeats poem, seduces Leda.
swans [accept “The Wild Swans at Coole” or “Leda and the Swan”] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156128-)
20. This essay describes the “curious feeling” of thinking one is watching “some kind of dummy” when hearing a speech about standing “shoulder to shoulder” with others. This essay asserts that a writer “is not really thinking” when confusing images, as in the phrase “the jackboot is thrown into the melting pot.” Near its end, this essay advises “Break any of these rules sooner than saying anything outright barbarous,” which is among six rules for (*) writers it posits. It demonstrates a point by using the words “Objective considerations of contemporary phenomena” to open a re-translation of a passage of Ecclesiastes. This essay argues against the use of “dying metaphors” and “pretentious diction” and articulates attitudes towards speech its author earlier explored in Homage to Catalonia. For 10 points, name this George Orwell essay arguing against abuses of his native tongue.
“Politics and the English Language” &lt;WA, Essays/Crit&gt;
8

156134-)
2. This author commanded “Gather the flowers, but spare the buds” in order to avoid the ire of Flora, who would “Nip in the blossom all our hopes and thee.” The speaker of a poem titled for this author describes how the “curving east” experiences the “earthly chill of dusk and slow” and an “ever climbing shadow grow.” This author of “The Picture of Little T. C. in a Prospect of Flowers” titles a poem whose speaker feels “the always coming on / the (*) rising of the night” while “face down beneath the sun.” This author noted “Thus, though we cannot make our sun / stand still, yet we will make him run” in a poem that inspired an Archibald MacLeish poem titled after him. For 10 points, name this author who wrote of “deserts of vast eternity” and “Time’s winged chariot” in “To His Coy Mistress.”
Andrew Marvell [accept “You, Andrew Marvell”] &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156136-)
The introduction to a play titled for this concept quotes R. W. Johnson’s negative review of The Pity of War in describing the attitude of a character first played by Stephen Campbell Moore. In that play titled for this concept, the phrase “Fuck the Renaissance” is spoken during the dismissal of a character who earlier borrows a phrase from Proverbs 9, “bread eaten in secret,” to describe General Studies. Motorcycle rides are used as occasions to fondle boys’ genitals in a play titled for this concept that is set at (*) Cutlers’ Grammar school and features the teachers Mr. Irwin and Mr. Hector. Alan Bennett wrote a 2004 play titled for this concept, which also names the genre of a play in which the line “I am determined to prove a villain” is spoken by a hunchback king who exclaims “my kingdom for a horse!” For 10 points, William Shakespeare wrote comedies, tragedies, and plays about what subject?
history [or histories; accept The History Boys] &lt;WA, Drama&gt;
8

156138-)
6. In a novel named after one of these people, a girl dislikes the pronunciation of “nasty” as “nesty” by a policewoman whom she privately names Sergeant Anne Grey. Another one of these people, who repeatedly says “umph,” sees his future wife standing on a ledge and hurts his ankle in a mistaken effort to help her. When asked whether her biggest influence was political, personal, or Calvinism, the nun who wrote “The Transfiguration of the Commonplace” replies that it was a person with this job who manipulated a girl into having an affair with the artist (*) Teddy Lloyd. E. R. Braithwaite wrote a novel about his experience in this profession. A woman of this profession is fired for Fascist sympathies and has a namesake “set” of students including Rose and Sandy. A Muriel Spark book explores the “prime” of a woman in, for 10 points, what profession of Mr. Chips and Miss Jean Brodie?
teachers [or educators; do not accept or prompt on “professors”] &lt;JC, LongFic&gt;
8

156143-)
11. This novel’s opening paragraph is replaced with a word noting the recent slaughter of 18 people in a 2009 adaptation. A man in this novel forces an issue by saying “You are too generous to trifle with me… one word from you will silence me on this subject forever” while alluding to sentiments from “last April,” and earlier meditates on the pleasure bestowed by the “fine eyes” of a woman he adores. In a key scene in this novel, a man says (*) “In vain I have struggled. It will not do” during a proposal. A 2016 film adapts Seth Grahame-Smith’s version of this novel, which introduces undead to its plot. A bachelor’s move to Netherfield Park begins the plot of this novel, which notes “It is a truth universally acknowledged” that certain men “must be in want of a wife.” For 10 points, Mr. Bingley marries Jane and Fitzwilliam marries Elizabeth in what Jane Austen novel?
Pride and Prejudice [accept Pride and Prejudice and Zombies] &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
8

156149-)
17. In a story by this author, the aspiring novelist of The Chelsea Set is so engrossed in talk with her fiancée that she ignores the title figures who speak an “incomprehensible tongue” while eating a fish dinner at Bentley’s. A character created by this author maintains a “brooding silence” for an entire summer with a group of boys who laugh at his name, so that character goes by the initial “T.” This author of “The Invisible Japanese Gentlemen” wrote a story in which “Old Misery” is targeted by the (*) Wormsley Common Gang, who plan to blow up his house in the aftermath of the Blitz. Spicer, Dallow, and Cubit are members of another gang created by this author whose leader is hunted by Ida Arnold. This author of “The Destructors” used the name of a candy to title his novel about Pinkie Brown. For 10 points, name this author of Brighton Rock and The Power and the Glory.
Graham Greene &lt;WA, Short Fiction&gt;
8

156160-)
4. The “intention” of a work titled for this place is studied in an article by Annabel Patterson, who read socio-political commentary into that work using Fulke Greville’s testimony. A lengthy poem titled for this place was written in the Neapolitan dialect by Jacopo Sannazaro. This place is mentioned in a phrase whose meaning was preserved in England, but became part of an “elegiac tradition” in France, according to an Erwin Panofsky essay. This region is the setting of a set of poems that declares (*) “Omnia vincit amor” or “love conquers all.” It’s the setting of much bucolic [byoo-KAH-lick] poetry, including the Eclogues of Vergil and a poem about Pyrocles and Pamela dedicated to the Countess of Pembroke. For 10 points, name this setting of a romance by Philip Sidney, a region of Greece idealized as a pastoral paradise.
Arcadia [accept “Et in Arcadia ego”; prompt on Greece] &lt;WA, Literary Legacy&gt;
8

156179-)
23. The last page of a work of “bio-history” about a character with this occupation notes that everything in the novel is true, except perhaps “the Maya-scene.” In a novel, a character who took this job requests that Ata burn the walls of his bungalow down after contracting leprosy. After being asked if he can see his “ideal” in the “face of a satyr,” a character with this occupation is stabbed behind in the ear by an friend who gets rid of his body, then goes to Lady Narborough’s party. A character who eventually takes up this occupation has an affair with Blanche after (*) quitting his job as a trader in London. This is the job of the protagonist of Irving Stone’s biographical novel Lust for Life, as well as Charles Strickland, the protagonist of W. Somerset Maugham’s The Moon and Sixpence. For 10 points, name this occupation of Basil Hallward, who creates the title work of an Oscar Wilde novel about Dorian Gray.
painters [prompt on artists or bohemians] &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
8

156184-)
4. A poem by this author requests of a friend “when I die, let me know / Great Homer died three thousand years ago.” This author mimicked Horace in such poems as one imaging a “young Maro” who notes “Nature and Homer were, he found, the same” and suggesting “First follow NATURE, and your judgment frame.” This author was targeted in the Verses Addressed to the Imitator of Horace co-written by John Hervey, whom this author rebuffed in a poem that coined the phrase (*) “damn with faint praise.” This author wrote “’Tis hard to say, if greater want of skill / Appear in writing or in judging ill” in a poem in couplets coining such phrases as “For fools rush in where angels fear to tread” and “A little learning is a dang’rous thing.” For 10 points, name this author of “Epistle to Dr. Arbuthnot,” “Essay on Criticism,” and “The Rape of the Lock.”
Alexander Pope &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156200-)
20. A passage from this story collection compares a couple’s love to the “tender fire of stars,” which has yet not been “quenched” by tedium. A story in this collection relates how a performance of the opera Maritana was screwed up by one of several mediocre “artistes” hired by a committee. In one of its stories, a woman aims to “take advantage of her daughter’s name” by signing her up as a piano accompanist for a concert series. A man has difficulty with the “Academy pieces” played by (*) Mary Jane in a story from this collection in which an invented cycling trip is used as a pretext to turn down a vacation invitation from Miss Ivors. A story in this collection ends with a man gazing through a window at snow falling on a graveyard while thinking of Michael Furey, who died for his wife Gretta. “A Mother” is a story in, for 10 points, what collection that includes “The Dead” and is by James Joyce?
Dubliners &lt;WA, Short Fiction&gt;
8

156207-)
3. In one essay, this author attacks the writings of Jules Michelet and calls his History of France riddled with “perilous openings for assault.” That essay begins with the line “What is to be thought of her?” referencing a girl from Lorraine who rose to the “perilous station at the right hand of kings.” Another essay by this author includes sections titled “The Vision of Sudden Death” and “Dream-Fugue,” and was published in Blackwood’s Magazine, as was his earlier essay (*) “Suspiria de Profundis.” This author of an essay on “Joan of Arc” recounts meeting Ann, a 16-year-old prostitute, on the corner of Oxford Street in another work. In that work, this author described the time when he gave a package load of a certain substance to a traveling Malay and how he began using that title substance to help him deal with his chronic stomach pains. For 10 points, name this author of Confessions of an English Opium Eater.
Thomas De Quincey &lt;SB, Essays/Crit&gt;
8

156256-)
4. Along with Wilhelm Meister, The New Heloise, and Don Quixote, this novel was purportedly Arthur Schopenhauer’s favorite, so much so that he asked his publisher to translate it to German. An entire paragraph in this book is filled with asterisks meant to represent the thoughts of one character. The phrase “every ball has its billet” is from this novel and is also quoted on the first page of Diderot’s (*) Jacques the Fatalist, which borrowed an entire passage from this novel. An episode in this novel focuses on Hafen Slawkenbergius, who wrote an entire treatise on noses. The 11 volumes that make up this novel were written over a period of 8 years. The title character of this novel is born with an abnormally flat nose, thanks to Dr. Slop, who made a mistake with his forceps while delivering him. For 10 points, name this novel about the “life and opinions” of the title character, written by Laurence Sterne.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman &lt;SB, LongFic&gt;
8

156258-)
6. The notes to this play state that it has rendered in English a “play in sundrie languages,” as a character earlier specifies that “each of us must act his part in unknown languages.” Douglas Bruster cited copying of sloppy handwriting in re-attributing anonymous “additional passages” that were added to this play’s fourth edition that were once credited to Ben Jonson. The monologue opening this play describes a katabasis where “Pluto was pleased” and sealed the speaker’s passport “with a kisse.” A lover is revealed by a bribe to the servant (*) Pendringano in this play, in which a man bites out his own tongue after the King summons torturers. This play preempted elements of Hamlet by including characters such as the ghost of Andrea and the spirit Revenge, and containing a performance of the play Soliman and Perseda. “Hieronimo is mad againe” is the alternate title of, for 10 points, what horrifically violent Thomas Kyd play?
The Spanish Tragedy, or, Hieronimo is mad againe &lt;WA, Drama&gt;
8

156260-)
8. A 143-line poem in this language is structured as a metered list of kings, including “Caesar ruled the Greeks,” after mentioning its title scop, or poet. A five-line poem called one man’s “Death Song” is the best-attested poem in this language, ahead of a nine-line one that opens by honoring the “guardian of heaven.” A poem in this language describes a gift of eight horses with golden bridles, including one with a jeweled saddle, and opens by detailing the submission of people beyond the “whale-road.” Another poem in this language describes heroics at the (*) Battle of Maldon. This language was used by an illiterate cowherd to compose Caedmon’s Hymn. A funeral at the seashore opens a poem in this language whose central hero partners with Wiglaf to slay a dragon and defends the mead-hall Heorot [HAIR-oht]. For 10 points, name this language used to write Beowulf.
Old English [do not accept or prompt on “Middle English” or “English”] (the first line refers to the Widsith) &lt;WA, HistInLit&gt;
8

156276-)
24. This poet presented an extreme version of sola fide doctrine in the form of a speaker who states “I have God’s warrant, could I blend / all hideous sins, as in a cup / To drink the mingled venoms up.” Another of this poet’s speakers muses “Or, there’s Satan! --one might venture / pledge one’s soul to him” before being interrupted by vespers. The speaker talks of bargaining “for his love, and stand / Paying a price, at his right hand?” in a poem this author framed as a meditation by Martin Luther’s friend (*) Johannes Agricola. He used the exclamation “G-r-r!” to open the first and last lines of a poem about hatred of Brother Lawrence. His jealous speakers include a monk in “Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister” and a nobleman who notes the title figure is “painted on the wall / Looking as if she were alive. I call.” For 10 points, name this poet whose collection Men and Women contains “My Last Duchess.”
Robert Browning &lt;WA, Poetry&gt;
8

156278-)
2. One of these animals tries to bite the arm of an angel in his path as he “gallops about doing good” in a poem by Stevie Smith. Another poem claims these animals can “spraggle upon waggle” and ends “For he can swim for life. For he can creep.” That list-formatted poem by Christopher Smart is about Jeoffry. Another poem about one of these animals is set near a vase which “China’s gayest art had dyed” with “azure flowers” and laments “No dolphin came, no Nereid stirred” to its aid. That poem originated the phrase “Nor all that (*) glisters, gold.” Another series of poems about these animals claims that they must have “three different names” and include the conjuring Mr. Mistoffelees and the criminal Macavity. Those poems are from T. S. Eliot’s “Old Possum’s Book of” these Practical” animals. For 10 points, Thomas Gray wrote about the drowning of what pet Selima in a tub of goldfish?
cat &lt;JC, Poetry&gt;
8

156285-)
9. Note to players: Type of work and author required. One of these works complains about “that second-hand school of poetry” in the context of discussing reviews by Blackwood’s Edinburgh Magazine. Some of these works boast of “hundreds” of “pl &amp; opt Cs,” a shorthand the author borrowed from the Satyricon to refer to sex, such as in the context of Nicolo Giraud. Another of these works lambasts “Turdsworth,” echoing a criticism that their author made of Wordsworth and Robert Southey in Canto I of a poem. One of these works is burned in front of Lady Croom by (*) Septimus Hodge in Tom Stoppard’s Arcadia. Many of these works are addressed to Teresa, Contessa Guiccioli [ghee-CHOH-lee], the author’s lover in Ravenna, and many others are to Percy Shelley. One of them says “If I am a poet… the air of Greece has made me one.” For 10 points, identify these epistles by the author of “Manfred” and “Don Juan.”
letters by Lord Byron &lt;WA, Authors/Bios&gt;
8

156286-)
10. At the end of this play’s second act, a character vows to prove to his wife “how far [he is] from jealousy or fear.” Two characters in this play discuss the legend of a townsman named Mass Stone, who supposedly worked as a spy and smuggled secrets written on cabbages out of the Netherlands. A servant in this play explains that he abandoned his vow of silence because the spirit of a lawyer had possessed him. An acrostic poem that spells out the name of the title character appears in this play’s (*) “Argument,” which comes before its prologue. The title character of this play disguises himself as the Scoto Mantua and sings a song praising his fake potion in front of Sir Politic Would Be. Nano and Castrone are two servants of this play's title character, who listens to Mosca and spurns prostitutes to pursue the beautiful Celia. For 10 points, name this play about a rich fox-like Venetian by Ben Jonson.
Volpone &lt;SB, Drama&gt;
8

156290-)
14. A female author from this country broke taboos by openly depicting female desire in her novel Love in Excess. The play Almyna exemplifies dramatic forms of a genre pioneered by female authors in this country called “amatory fiction.” Seventy-two years of diaries, the first of which is addressed to “Nobody,” were kept by a female author from this country. A female author from here created a heroine who discovers a human figure made of wax behind a black veil and is helped by the servant (*) Ludovico, who works for a bandit nobleman. An author from this country created such villains as Schedoni [skeh-DOH-nee] and Montoni, the latter of whom owns the title castle investigated by Emily St. Aubert. For 10 points, name this home country of Eliza Haywood, Frances Burney, and Mysteries of Udolpho author Ann Radcliffe.
England [or Great Britain or the United Kingdom or UK] &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
8

156292-)
16. In an essay, this author divided novelists into two “camps,” the preachers and teachers, headed by Tolstoy and Dickens, and the pure artists, headed by Austen and Turgenev, and described how E. M. Forster attempted to straddle both camps. In another essay, this author wrote about the death of a creature that looked as “if someone had taken a tiny bead of pure life” and “had set it dancing and zig zagging to show us the true nature of life.” This author compiled three essays about Henry (*) James into one collection, whose title essay is about an insect that admits “death is stronger than I am.” An essay by this author of “Death of the Moth” was written for her “Women and Fiction” lectures and includes a section on Judith Shakespeare. For 10 points name this author of "A Room of One's Own."
Virginia Woolf &lt;SB, Essays/Crit&gt;
8

156309-)
9. Lines created by this literary effort, such as “The sea had soakt his heart through,” sparked one author’s “particular delight” according to the accounts of Charles Gordon Clarke. This literary effort essentially outmoded the only earlier similar work in the same language, done by Arthur Hall, and helped reduce reliance on a Latin version by Lorenzo Valla. An author’s original line “Yet I never judge what Men could mean,” which was replaced by a line ending with “pure serene,” indicated a preference for the product of this effort over similar work by (*) Alexander Pope. The man who made this literary effort spoke out “loud and bold” according to a poem titled for it, which mentions a “stout Cortez” and opens “Much have I travelled in realms of gold.” For 10 points, identify this 17th-century rendering of the Iliad and Odyssey into English, which Keats wrote about “On First Looking Into.”
George Chapman’s translations of Homer [accept Chapman’s Homer or “On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer”; accept George Chapman’s translation of the Iliad and Odyssey until “Iliad”; accept The Odyssey in the first sentence and prompt after; prompt on the Iliad until read; prompt on translating Homer or similar partial answers by asking “by who?”, since Chapman is required] &lt;WA, Literary Legacy&gt;
8

156330-)
6. This poet described a number of “courting-places / That are still courting-places / (But the lovers are all in school)” in a poem that describes how “young mothers assemble / At swing and sandpit / Setting free their children.” A poem by this author wonders if older generations thought of his as “free bloody birds” before thinking about seeing “everyone young going down the long slide / To happiness, endlessly.” This author of “Afternoons” wrote that “Not till about / (*) One-twenty on the sunlit Saturday / Did my three-quarters empty train pull out” in a poem describing him passing noisy bridal parties. This author of “Church Going” also wrote the line “Man hands misery onto man” in a poem advising “don’t have any kids yourself.” For 10 points, name this author of “The Whitsun Weddings” who wrote “They fuck you up, your mum and dad” in “This Be the Verse.”
Philip Larkin &lt;JC, Poetry&gt;
8

156343-)
19. This character titles a novel which introduces the foul-mouthed poet Martin Silenus, and which is structured like the Canterbury Tales in sections such as “The Consul’s Tale” and “The Poet’s Tale.” In a novel titled for this character, a man recounts the “Russians bringing a fleet” to support a revolt against the Turks based on the real-life Orlov revolt, and discusses his love for a “perfect being” who shares his goal of merging with the “all of nature” named Diotima. A novel titled for this character is structured as a series of letters to Bellarmin from a “Hermit in Greece,” and was written in (*) German and published in 1797. A 1989 Hugo Award winning novel by Dan Simmons takes this title in reference to an unfinished epic which opens depicting a fallen Saturn after the Titanomachy. For 10 points, name this Titan who titles a novel by Friedrich Hölderlin and an epic by John Keats.
Hyperion [accept Hyperion Cantos] &lt;WA, LongFic&gt;
8

156349-)
In one story, this character burns papers Charles Augustus Milverton said would ruin Eva Blackwell’s engagement. In a novel, he hides in Devon rock formations to learn about a naturalist Mr. Stapleton, who is actually Rodger Baskerville. This is the tenant of an apartment owned by Mrs. (*) Hudson. He is foiled by Irene Adler in “A Scandal in Bohemia,” and often is consulted by Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard. Dr. Watson is the companion of—for 10 points—what literary detective?
Sherlock Holmes (accept either underlined name)
3

156360-)
This writer imagined a rampaging army of attorneys in his poem “Helter Skelter”. He had ancient and 1700s authors fighting in The Battle of the Books. This author wrote a non-serious suggestion that begins by detailing the Irish poor and then suggesting that the nation eat its (*) children to end starvation. He also wrote a work in which a man visits the strange countries of Houyhnhnms [who-IN-nims], which is populated by horses, and Lilliput, where everyone is six inches tall. For 10 points—who is this author of A Modest Proposal and Gulliver’s Travels?
Jonathan Swift
3

156386-)
A character dressed in a green robe tells this former coworker of Dick Wilkins about 1800 brothers. When a visitor mentions the destitute, this character asks about the treadmills run by prisoners to make flour. This former employee of Mr. Fezziwig sees the face of an old partner in place of his (*) door knocker, and that partner later appears in chains made of cash boxes and purses. This character is shown his own poorly-attended funeral and the Cratchits' grief over Tiny Tim's death. Three ghosts visit—for 10 points—what miser in A Christmas Carol?
Ebenezer Scrooge (accept either underlined name)
3

156408-)
In one of these literary works, a child is slain but continues to sing until a grain on his tongue is removed. Palamon marries Emily in the first of these works after the knight Arcite is thrown from a horse. In another of these stories, three men kill each other through stabbing and drinking poisoned wine during an effort to kill (*) Death. These 24 stories are told as pilgrims visit the shrine of Thomas Beckett. Geoffrey Chaucer wrote—for 10 points—what collection that includes The Squire's Tale and the Knight's Tale?
The Canterbury Tales
3

156437-)
Some claim the first example of this literary form is a 13th century Thomas Aquinas prayer. There are 112 of these in Edward Lear's Book of Nonsense. Ogden Nash is the purported author of one of these that starts "A wonderful bird is the (*) pelican / His bill can hold more than his belly can". The original text of one of these said a man from Nantucket kept all his cash in a bucket. Their rhyme scheme is A-A-B-B-A. An Irish county gives us the name of—for 10 points—what poetry with five lines?
limerick (do not accept "poem", as they existed well before the 13th century)
3

156460-)
Towards the end of this man's story, he goes to Portugal to claim profits from his Brazilian estate. One night this character is jarred awake by a parrot calling his name. He keeps a journal of October 1659 after procuring pistols, powder horns, and swords from a (*) shipwreck. He meets a man who helps him bury two attackers and burn a pile of bones, and that companion he saved from cannibals gets named Friday. Daniel Defoe created—for 10 points—what man stranded on an island for twenty-six years?
Robinson Crusoe (accept either underlined name)
3

156468-)
Ben Barnes starred as this literary character in a 2009 film, and Reeve Carney played this character in the TV series Penny Dreadful. In The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen film, he is immortal until exposed to a personal object. In the original novel, he is cruel to the actress Sibyl Vane, meets (*) Harry Wotton and Basil Hallward, and maintains his youth while his misdeeds corrupt a hanging object. Oscar Wilde created—for 10 points—what character who appears in a hideous "picture"?
Dorian Gray (accept either underlined name; accept The Picture of Dorian Gray, but do not accept "Portrait of Dorian Gray")
3

156474-)
Goldberg and McCann ruin one of these times for Stanley in a Harold Pinter play. In 2016 the judge in the case Good Morning to You Products versus Warner Music declared a song often used at this time is in the public domain. Mathematicians have calculated that if there are (*) twenty-three people in a room there is a fifty percent chance two people have the same one. The Spanish Quinceañera [kin-SEE-ah-NAIR-ah] and the Jewish Bat Mitzvah are held on or near—for 10 points—what time when a person's age increases?
birthday or birthdate (accept The Birthday Party or Happy Birthday to You)
3

156580-)
These five words start a literary work in which the writer thinks of old griefs and childhood's faith. The responses to this five-word title are "freely, as men strive for right", and also at a quantity equaling each day's most quiet need. The poet says the answer includes a "passion put to use". This phrase is an alternate title of Number (*) 43 in Sonnets from the Portuguese. "Let me count the ways" is the solution to—for 10 points—what Elizabeth Barrett Browning five-word question about how she feels affection for another?
How do I love thee?
3

156582-)
In an Edward German opera this character sees the ghost of Herne the Hunter and then allows Bessie to love Walter. In Benjamin Britten’s Gloriana this character is honored with a masquerade of Time and Concord. Gaetano Donizetti has this woman loving Robert Devereux, but she ends up signing his (*) death warrant. Ambroise Thomas had this character discovering William Shakespeare in a tavern near Richmond Palace. For 10 points—give this 16th century royal woman who never gets married in an opera due to her status as the virgin queen.
Queen Elizabeth I Tudor (prompt on “Elizabeth”) [“Walter” is Sir Walter Raleigh]
3

156614-)
One character in this play says that “there’s small choice in rotten apples” when responding to another character’s complaints about a woman’s volatile nature. In one act in this play, one character disagrees with everything another character says, eventually getting her to say that the sun is the moon. In this play’s (*) Induction, this play is framed as being performed for the drunkard Christopher Sly, who is tricked into thinking he is a lord. A character in this play says that he has “come to wive it wealthy in Padua” and subsequently attempts to court the eldest daughter of Baptista, who is prohibited to marry before her younger sister, Bianca. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean comedy in which Petruchio attempts to perform the title action on Katharina.
The Taming of the Shrew &lt;Jin&gt;
2

156635-)
In the fourth stanza of this poem, the phrase, “Cold Pastoral” presents the paradox of the events described as being both stoic and passionate. In this ekphrastic poem, love “leaves a heart high-sorrowful and cloy’d, / A burning forehead, and a parching tongue.” In the first stanza of this poem, the speaker tells soft pipes to (*) “play on” because “Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard / Are sweeter.” This poem describes a priest making a sacrifice, a musician under a green tree, and a pursuant lover, all of whom will never die. For 10 points, name this poem which declares, “Thou shalt remain … / … a friend to man, to whom thou say’st, / ‘Beauty is truth, and truth beauty,’ ” a poem by John Keats.
“Ode on a Grecian Urn” &lt;McMaken&gt;
2

156656-)
The author of this novel was unsure whether or not to complete it after the death of her partner’s son. This novel’s setting precedes the 1832 Reform Act, and its prelude claims that while St. Theresa led a life of greatness, many others who are just as good will never have the chance to achieve fame. In this novel, Mary Garth refuses to help the dying Peter Featherstone. The death of Sir John Raffles in this novel was in part due to banker (*) Nicholas Bulstrode. One of the main plots of this novel focuses on Dr. Lydgate, while another encompasses Mr. Casaubon’s efforts to alter his will in order to prevent Will Ladislaw from marrying Casaubon’s widow. For 10 points, name this George Eliot novel about Dorothea Brooke set in the title town, subtitled “A Study in Provincial Life.”
Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life &lt;Kumar&gt;
2

156687-)
One member of this profession searches for his lost cat and is aided by his assistant Louise Munroe; that man is Jackson Brodie and was included in a novel series by Kate Atkinson. Another member of this profession is called the greatest one of this profession of all time and sends Miss Carnaby two hundred pounds prior to the conclusion of her dog-kidnapping campaign in (*) The Nemean Lion. Yet another member of this profession appears to know nothing of “literature, philosophy and politics,” according to his assistant. That member of this profession faked his own death at Reichenbach Falls and was enamored by Irene Adler in “A Scandal in Bohemia.” For 10 points, identify this profession of Agatha Christie’s Hercule Poirot and Arthur Conan Doyle’s Sherlock Holmes.
detective [or private investigator] &lt;McMaken&gt;
2

156714-)
In the second part of this work, the innkeeper Gaius explains the symbolic meaning of supper and compares “hard texts” to nuts. A character who is exposed by the protagonist of this work is the son of Say-Well and Mrs. Talk-About-The-Right Things. In the first part of this work, the protagonist is asked, “Whence came you, and whither are you bound?" by (*) Apollyon while in the Slough [rhymes with “cow”] of Despond, where the protagonist sinks in the mire under his doubts and sins until he is pulled up by the character Help and led to the Wicket Gate. This work’s title refers to Christian’s journey from the City of Destruction to the Celestial City. For 10 points, name this very early English allegorical novel by John Bunyan.
The Pilgrim's Progress from This World to That Which is to Come: Delivered under the Similitude of a Dream Wherein is Discovered, the Manner of his Setting Out, his Dangerous Journey, and Safe Arrival at the Desired Countrey [give someone 20 points if they really can pull off that whole title] &lt;McMaken&gt;
2

156725-)
In this novel, a Russian assistant to the protagonist is called “Harlequin” because of his multicolored clothing. Another character of this work is included in the first epigraph of T.S. Eliot's The Hollow Men, which proclaims, “he dead.” Another character paints a dark portrait of his fiancé and ends a report with the line, (*) “Exterminate all the Brutes!” A boat anchored on the Thames River serves as the setting for this work, and that boat is named Nellie. Because of the natives in this novel, Chinua Achebe called its author a racist. This novel’s climax occurs as dying ivory trader Kurtz whispers the words, “The horror, the horror” to Charlie Marlow. For 10 points, name this frame story by Joseph Conrad about a voyage up the Congo.
Heart of Darkness &lt;Kumar&gt;
2

156740-)
A disputed area in a novel by this man has “corners at Tangier, Brazzaville, Darwin, and Hong Kong.” In another novel by this man, commandments are amended to allow drinking in moderation and beds without sheets, resulting in the maxim that some of the titular characters are “more equal (*) than others.” In that novel, Boxer is purportedly sent to a veterinarian, but is actually sold for slaughter by Napoleon to buy whisky for his inner circle of pigs. In one of this man’s most famous works, crimethink is punished by the thinkpol, or Thought Police, for challenging the rule of Big Brother. For 10 points, name this British author of works like Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four.
George Orwell &lt;Luc&gt;
2

156766-)
William Wordsworth describes “Abodes, where self-disturbance hath no part” in a sonnet declaring these objects “mansions built by Nature’s hand.” A poem describes one of these objects “with eternal lids apart” as “nature’s patient, sleepless Eremite.” A poem whose first line describes one of these objects follows the 4-word couplet “And swear, / No where” with “Lives a woman true, and fair.” Jane Taylor’s best known poem concerns one of these objects. Ben Whishaw stars in a 2009 (*) Jane Campion biopic titled for one of these objects, which depicts a poet’s relationship with Fanny Brawne. A poem whose first line requests one of these objects follows with commands to “Teach me to hear mermaids singing” and “Get with child a mandrake root.” John Keats wrote “would I were stedfast as thou art” in a sonnet addressing a “Bright” object of this sort. For 10 points, a John Donne poem begins by commanding to “Go and catch a falling” type of what object?
stars [or “Bright Star”; or “Song: Go and Catch a Falling Star”; or “Twinkle, Twinkle, Little Star”] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156801-)
Holly Sykes’ narration opens a 2014 novel whose title compares humans to these objects. As Tristram Shandy begins, Mrs. Shandy interrupts sex with her husband Walter by asking if he forgot his first Sunday of the month tradition involving one of these objects. Brutus anachronistically asks for “Peace!” to “count” one of these objects in Julius Caesar. The speaker notes “The lovers they were gone” and “[these objects] had ceased” at a poem’s end. The line “It was a bright cold day in April” is followed by a (*) peculiar description of these objects. The “whirr” and “chime” of these objects interrupt singing in “As I Walked Out One Evening.” An “English” one breaks an “English silence” at the opening of The Bald Soprano. Commands to “cut off the telephone” and “silence the pianos” follow the statement to “Stop all [of these objects]” in “Funeral Blues.” For 10 points, 1984’s opening strangely describes what objects “striking thirteen?”
clocks [accept The Bone Clocks] (The tradition in Tristram Shandy is winding the clock at the beginning of each month.) &lt;RK&gt;
8

156807-)
A 2014 installation by Alex Chinneck of a melting wax house was titled “[This object] for 50 pence.” In a 2016 Howard Jacobson novel, Strulovitch replaces an agreement about this object with a deal that a football star undergo religious conversion. James Shapiro connects this object to Romans 2’s concept of “circumcision of the heart.” Before asking for this object, a play’s antagonist claims its owner always called him a dog and spat on him. That character says he’ll use this object “To bait fish withal” or “feed my revenge” before asking (*) “If you prick us, do we not bleed?” and “Hath not” he “eyes?” A woman disguised as the judge Balthazar denies that man this object because Christian blood cannot be shed after praising the “quality of mercy.” This object is requested in exchange for three thousand ducats to help Bassanio court Portia. For 10 points, name this object Shylock asks of Antonio in The Merchant of Venice, which he says shall be “cut from off his breast.”
a pound of (Antonio’s) flesh [prompt on incomplete answers] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156836-)
Galactia and the Doge feud over one of these objects following the Battle of Lepanto in a Howard Barker play. One of these objects leads Amir to compare himself to a slave at the opening of Ayad Akhtar’s Disgraced. Marc and Serge’s friendship is strained by one of these objects in a Yasmina Reza play. John Bratby inspired the name of kitchen sink realism with one of these objects. A Gluck aria plays as Ken helps prepare one of these objects in John Logan’s best known play. (*) Hurtle Duffield smears feces onto one of these objects he creates in Patrick White’s The Vivisector, while Tracy Chevalier and Donna Tartt’s best known novels are titled for objects of this sort. Charles Tansley criticizes one of these objects completed by Lily Briscoe depicting the Ramseys in To the Lighthouse. For 10 points, what types of objects are created for the Four Seasons Restaurant by the protagonist of the play Red, Mark Rothko?
paintings [accept murals; or self-portraits] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156843-)
The speaker laments “Sally is gone” at the beginning of a Hilaire Belloc poem titled for one of these objects in Ha’nacker. These objects promote “the exchange of ideas” according to a microhistory examining the heresy of Menocchio, whose job utilized them, Carlo Ginzburg’s The Cheese and the Worms. A character claims the imaginary Friston transformed some beings into these objects and also stole his library, which was actually burned by a priest and barber. St. Ogg’s is home to one of these objects named for (*) Dorlcote that’s auctioned off and is eventually overtaken by a flood as two siblings embrace. The horse Boxer dies trying to carry stones to rebuild one of these objects that is later destroyed by Mr. Frederick in the “Battle of [it]” in Animal Farm. A William Blake poem asks if Jerusalem was built amongst “dark Satanic [these objects].” For 10 points, what objects are mistaken for giants by Don Quixote, who proceeds to tilt at them?
mills [or windmills, accept The Mill on the Floss] &lt;RK&gt;
8

156844-)
In a work titled for these objects, a dedication to Thomas Le Gros precedes an Epistle to the Reader beginning “When the Funeral pyre was out, and the last valediction was over.” One of these objects titles a book that provides “Studies in the Structure” of 10 English poems before a chapter examining “The Heresy of Paraphrase.” A work inspired by some of these objects famously declares “Man is a noble animal, splendid in ashes and pompous in the grave.” A prominent text of New Criticism, written by (*) Cleanth Brooks, was titled The Well Wrought [this object] after John Donne’s “Canonization.” Some of these objects unearthed at Norfolk inspired Thomas Browne’s Hydriotaphia. A poem about one of these objects claims “Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard / Are sweeter” after calling it a “foster-child of silence” and “still unravish'd bride of quietness.” For 10 points, the remark that “Beauty is truth, truth beauty” closes John Keats’ ode on what sort of Grecian object?
urns &lt;RK&gt;
8

156862-)
H.L Mencken’s fictionalized article “A Neglected Anniversary” describes how Adam Thompson brought these objects to America. The narrator explores a cybernetic community within the Third Pentagon in a Stanislaw Lem novel titled for Memoirs Found in [one of these objects]. George Etherege’s The Comical Revenge is subtitled Love in [one of these objects]. Various “Digressions” interrupt a work titled for one of these objects, including ones “in Praise of Digressions” and “on Madness.” That book’s preface frames the work as one of these objects (*) thrown overboard by sailors to distract a “Whale … interpreted to be Hobbes’s Leviathan.” Nicholas convinces John to hang three of these objects from the ceiling to survive God’s flood in Chaucer’s “Miller’s Tale.” A 1704 satire titled for one of these objects represents the three branches of Christianity with the brothers Martin, Peter, and Jack. For 10 points, what sort of object titles a Jonathan Swift “Tale?”
a bathtub &lt;RK&gt;
8

156915-)
The Cure for Love by Jonathan Bate was based on the life of this man, who gives his name to a Maidstone theatre. This writer claimed there are so few good modern comedies because they had already held “the mirror up to nature”. One of this man’s pieces discusses how our favourite books become indifferent (*) to us over time and calls the title emotion a “poisonous mineral”; in another work, this author of “On the Pleasure of Hating” profiles William Godwin, Walter Scott and Jeremy Bentham. For 10 points, name this literary critic who wrote Table-Talk and The Spirit of the Age.
William Hazlitt &lt;LC&gt;
7

156917-)
A work about this location incorporates the Greek phrase “eithe genoimen” and describes a “prim ecclesiastic rout vanishing with Satanic cries.” This location names a larger, asymmetrical version of the St Andrew’s tie knot. One work about this location opens with the murder of a man by his secretary and mistress, (*) which is solved by Sidney Chambers. Another work about this location asks “Is there beauty left to find? And certainty? And quiet kind?” For ten points, name this village two miles south of Cambridge, where Rupert Brooke described “The Old Vicarage.”
Grantchester [Accept The Old Vicarage before mentioned] &lt;JK&gt;
7

156936-)
When offered a chance to leave the country, this character laments “I am chained to my old life”, and had earlier claimed to have “no certain roof but the coffin lid”. A boy who claims to be called Morris Bolter overhears this character talking to (*) Rose Maylie on London Bridge, and this character later dies clutching Rose’s handkerchief. This character’s former lover returns to London after having visions of her ghost, only to accidentally hang himself. For 10 points, name this implied prostitute who informs on Fagin and gets murdered by her lover Bill Sikes in Oliver Twist.
Nancy &lt;Tom&gt;
7

156981-)
A response to this poem complains of the poet’s overuse of “coruscating metaphor”. One concept inspired by this poem is rolled “toward some overwhelming question” in The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock; that is a reference to this poem’s narrator rolling “all our sweetness (*) up into one ball”. This poem describes how “my vegetable love should grow / vaster than empires, and more slow”; later, the narrator of this poem hears “time’s winged chariot hurrying near”. For 10 points, name this carpe diem poem opening “Had we but world enough and time”, a work by Andrew Marvell.
“To His Coy Mistress” &lt;JK&gt; Bonuses:
7

156983-)
A character in one of this author’s works is sent the books Palestine at the Crossroads and Scientific Dairy Farming. In one essay, this author claimed that no-one would write a novel unless “driven on by some demon whom one can neither resist nor understand”. In addition to “Confessions of a Book (*) Reviewer” and “Why I Write”, in another essay this author described his time as a police officer in Moulmein, during which he had to carry out a shooting “to avoid looking a fool”. For 10 points name this English essayist, who collected some of his works in The Road to Wigan Pier.
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair] &lt;JK&gt;
7

156996-)
While wearing white rubber sleeves, a woman in this play puts a palmful of mustard in a bath as another looks on with abject terror. In this play, a man half-yawns an air from La Fanciulla del West before asking where he left his slippers, and cannot tell the difference between double Gloucester and Stilton. (*) Nepommuck declares that a girl in this play is in fact Hungarian and of royal blood; that girl in this play ultimately marries Freddy Eynsford-Hill. For 10 points, name this play in which Colonel Pickering bets Henry Higgins that he cannot get rid of Eliza Doolittle’s Cockney accent.
Pygmalion &lt;LC&gt;
7

157003-)
According to William Andrews, a scheme for stealing these items involved hiding a small boy on a butchers’ tray. Lord Bolingbroke caused a scandal by appearing before Queen Anne in the Ramilies type of these items. These items (*) became common after the Restoration, when they were called perukes. A 1795 tax on powder for these items led to the popularization of the Bedford crop. The type worn by judges is known as a “full bottom”. For 10 points, name these items, worn by fashionable dandies over their hair.
wigs &lt;JS&gt;
7

157026-)
This character states that should a reviewer “gnash his teeth, and storm and rage” at him, he would recall that “the weather was very hot”. While discussing renaming this character, a roasted chestnut drops into Phutatorius’s breeches. This character wonders if he would have been conceived differently had his mother not asked (*) about a clock while having sex. After lengthy digressions, we eventually learn that this character’s nose was flattened by Dr Slop’s forceps, and he later gets circumcised by a window sash. For 10 points, name this associate of Parson Yorick, a gentleman created by Laurence Sterne.
Tristram Shandy [accept either name] &lt;LC&gt;
7

157045-)
In one play by this author, Maureen is disgusted by her mother’s morning routine of emptying her bedpan into the sink and finally kills her with a fire poker. In another play by this author, Mooney makes Harry Wade believe that he has kidnapped his daughter, leading Wade to hang Mooney in his bar. As well as (*) The Beauty Queen of Leenane and Hangmen, this author wrote another play in which the author Katurian is a suspect in a series of mysterious child murders. For 10 points, name this British-Irish playwright of The Pillowman, who also wrote and directed Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.
Martin McDonagh &lt;Theo&gt;
7

157050-)
In one of this author’s poems, he claimed “each mortal thing” cries “What I do is me: for that I came”. He compared “man’s mounting spirit” to one of his title figures, which is “beyond the remembering his free fells”. This author of “As Kingfishers (*) Catch Fire” and “The Caged Skylark” was posthumously popularised by Robert Bridges. This poet called the title figure of one poem “morning’s minion”, and he opened one sonnet with “Glory be to God for dappled things”. For 10 points, name this British poet who pioneered sprung rhythm in “The Windhover” and “Pied Beauty”.
Gerard Manley Hopkins &lt;JK&gt;
7

157084-)
One character created by this writer fails to keep a job for all of National Cheese Week, and blames "the dullest house in England" when caught lying about a staircase. In another play by this author, a character talks of "a Spanish cat of the Enlightenment" that "appreciated (*) counterpoint", and tricks his rival into angering the Freemasons by writing an opera. Another play by this author of Lettice and Lovage focuses on Dr Martin Dysart’s attempt to analyse Alan Strang, who stripped naked and blinded six horses with a spike. For 10 points, name this British playwright of Amadeus and Equus.
Peter Shaffer &lt;FHR&gt;
7

157123-)
In one work, two characters with this profession bicker after “rancke Winters rage” is bemoaned by Cuddie to Thenot. Mantuanus inspired that work titled for this profession, which includes a dedicatory epistle by E.K. A “reply” to one of these people rejects “thy belt of straw and ivy buds”, and was written by (*) Walter Raleigh. In another poem, a man with this profession describes how “we will sit upon the rocks” and asks “come live with me and be my love”. For 10 points, name this profession titling a “Calendar” by Spenser and whose “passionate” type titles a Marlowe poem.
Shepherd [accept reasonable synonyms] &lt;JK&gt;
7

157137-)
According to Diana Athill, Ford Madox Ford told this writer to translate sentences into French to check their quality; this author wrote about her affair with Ford in Postures. In a novel by this author, Julia struggles after leaving her lover Mr Mackenzie; in another novel by this author, Sasha Jansen flirts with a gigolo (*) after leaving Bloomsbury for Paris. Another of this author’s novels opens by describing white people “closing ranks” when trouble comes, and follows Antoinette from Jamaica to England, where she is renamed Bertha Mason. For 10 points, identify this Dominican author of Good Morning, Midnight and Wide Sargasso Sea.
Jean Rhys &lt;EJW&gt;
7

157149-)
In a play named after this place, Davey claims to kill 200 cows a day before having a Pot Noodle. In the same play named for this place, the main character claims to have seen a woman give birth after she stripped naked to embrace a beech tree, and calls upon Yggdrasil to help him when he is being evicted from his caravan. In addition to that play about (*) Rooster Byron, this place titles a work in which the speaker “will not cease from Mental Fight” until it is built among “dark satanic mills”. For 10 points, name this city which titles a Jez Butterworth play and a hymn with words by William Blake.
Jerusalem &lt;Theo&gt; Bonuses:
7

157159-)
In one location of this type, Westmoreland asks the Archbishop “wherefore do you so ill translate yourself out of the speech of peace?” in Henry IV Part II. In another play, characters who live in one of these locations are said to “fleet the time carelessly as they did in the golden world” with the character of Duke (*) Senior. In another location of this type, a dispute over an Indian Boy leads Oberon to make Titania fall in love with the donkey-headed Bottom. For 10 points, name these natural locations such as Arden, which are central to the plots of As You Like It and A Midsummer Night’s Dream.
Forests [accept woods or other clear knowledge equivalents] &lt;Theo&gt;
7

157190-)
In a poem attributed to this author, a saint sheds a tear on a reanimated corpse which then dissolves into dust. One of this author’s poems uses images of Belshazzar’s Feast and the Flood to illustrate its title concept, while in another work by this author, a father dreams of crossing a stream to a beautiful maiden. In another poem by this author of (*) Cleanness, animal carcasses are traded for kisses with a man who brings a green girdle he receives from the wife of Bertilak back to the Knights of the Round Table. For 10 points, name this unknown author of Gawain and the Green Knight.
the Pearl Poet [accept e.g. “the author of Gawain”, prompt on “unknown” with “name me a work attributed to them?” and then accept if they say “Pearl”, “Gawain”, “Cleanness” or “Patience”] &lt;EJW&gt;
7

157204-)
In a surreal section of the work containing this character, he testifies that the protagonist is “bisexually abnormal” and “more sinned against than sinning”. This character is based on Oliver St. John Gogarty, a classicist who also briefly went to Oxford, where this character meets Haines. This character often swims in the Forty Foot, and after listening to a theory on Shakespeare, suggests that (*) Molly’s husband may have homosexual designs on “Kinch”. First seen calling Stephen Dedalus to join him on the roof with his shaving bowl, for 10 points, name this medical student whose name follows “stately, plump” in the opening line of Ulysses.
Buck Mulligan [accept either name, or Malachi Mulligan] &lt;ADG&gt;
7

157224-)
3. This character was inspired by another writer’s nurse to Caius, and a watchman created for William Kempe. That other playwright’s work is referenced when this character says, “an eye, like March, to threaten at command!” Elizabeth Inchbald described this character as “too far removed from (*) probability to make a reasonable auditor smile.” While not Delia, this character is pronounced a “weather-beaten she-dragon” by a man she calls, “the very pineapple of politeness.” For 10 points, name this character who concludes, “men are all barbarians” at the denouement of Richard Sheridan’s The Rivals.
Mrs Malaprop &lt;LC&gt;
7

157257-)
In one of the greater humiliations of this actor’s career, Greta Garbo shot him down as a possible co-star in Queen Christina. This actor spoke directly to the camera for his soliloquies in a role in which he donned an elongated fake (+) nose, and he announces, “This is the tragedy of a man who could not make up his mind” in a voiceover at the beginning of one of his films. This actor’s first Oscar nominations were for Wuthering Heights and Rebecca. This actor’s best known relationship was a torrid love affair with Vivien Leigh, and he apocryphally told Dustin Hoffman, (*) “Why don’t you try acting?” in a caustic criticism of method acting. This actor’s background in the West End as a co-director of the Old Vic was reflected in his roles as Hamlet, King Henry, King Richard III, and in numerous other Shakespeare films. For 10 points, name this English actor renowned for his technique and as one of the greatest actors of the 20th century.
Laurence Olivier
8

157258-)
A stack of letters from this character is received by a man as he licks some ice cream (+), and Lynrd Skynrd plays as this character walks onto a ledge contemplating suicide. This character angrily throws rocks at her childhood home, to which another character muses that “Sometimes, there aren’t enough rocks in the world,” and a crowd cheers after she happily reunites with a man in the (*) Reflecting Pool after seeing him give a speech at the Lincoln Monument. It’s implied this character dies of AIDS after finally marrying a man whom she had once told to “Run!” during their childhood in Alabama. For 10 points, name this Robin Wright-played character, the love interest of Forrest Gump.
Jenny Curran (accept either or both parts)
8

157270-)
Various international adaptations of this play include Isi Life Mein, Nalnari jongbujeon, and Gundamma Katha. One adaptation of this play included a crucial wink by Mary (+) Pickford, and an urban legend held that that adaptation included the screen credit, “With additional dialogue by Sam Taylor.” During an adaptation of this play, a character tears up while reading a poem declaring “I hate your big dumb combat boots” and “I hate the way (*) I don’t hate you,” and Patrick pretends to like indie girl bands after Joey pays him to take out Julia Stiles’s character. A senior is lured into a relationship with Heath Ledger’s bad-boy character during a high school modernization of this play so that Cameron can in turn date Kat’s younger sister. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play that was adapted into 10 Things I Hate About You, as well as the musical Kiss Me, Kate.
The Taming of the Shrew
8

157369-)
A man in a denim jacket in this film jumps into a crowded elevator to force a conversation with a man barely visibly in the reflection of the elevator’s mirror. A boys’ swimming race occurs in this film before an alternate (+) perspective is used to show an earlier scene in which a man is confronted about a crude drawing of a child spitting blood. One character in this film had tricked another boy into killing a family (*) rooster after that boy’s parents had died in a 1961 massacre of protestors in the Algerian War. After the Parisians Anne and George begin receiving videotaped footage of themselves in this film, George confronts Majid, who later abruptly slits his throat in front of George. For 10 points, name this Michael Haneke film whose English name translates as “Hidden.”
Caché (accept Hidden before end of question)
8

157414-)
These two people rented the hotel suites above and below their own according to anecdotes from a book by Sam Kashner and Nancy Schoenberger titled Furious Love. A 68-carat pear-shaped (+) diamond was named after these people after one of them bought it as a gift, and the rumored behavior of this couple led the Vatican to condemn them for “erotic vagrancy.” Films that starred this couple include Under Milk Wood, Boom!, The V.I.P.s, and The Sandpiper, as well as one in which one of these people needles the other about the origin of the movie quote, “What a dump!” This relationship began on the set of a (*) historical epic that went famously over budget. One half of this couple was married seven times, including twice to the other person in this couple that appeared together in a film based on an Edward Albee play. For 10 points, give these two people whose stormy relationship was shown on-screen in such films as Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? and Cleopatra.
Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton (prompt on partial answer; accept names in either order; Ed’s note: Burton’s journal includes the following description of Taylor: “Her breasts were apocalyptic, they would topple empires.” Brangelina, eat your heart out.)
8

157442-)
It is as of yet unclear what this monster had to do with the poisoning of thirteen children. Dead Meat listed the best kill by this monster as a scene in which he quickly pulls back a shower curtain before revealing his victim has almost instantly been decapitated. A woman attempts to flush her wedding ring down the toilet shortly before this monster mutilates her. That woman somehow survives and ends up stabbing this monster in the throat with a fork while in the hospital. This monster’s killings are often preceded by its victim seeing a message reading, (*) “If you yourself cannot release, then it will come to take a piece.” For 10 points, name this scarred, eyeless monster, and the subject of the most popular series of Crypt TV shorts.
The Look-See
9

157444-)
One person of this profession has their arms pulled off with ropes in American Horror Story: Roanoke, while two characters of this profession can appear in the basement bathtub of the first season of American Horror Story. In Nightmare on Elm Street 3, Freddy disguises himself as someone with this profession before restraining Joey to his bed with a bunch of tongues. In Dead by Daylight, the killer with this profession has the ability to teleport long distances across the map. A more famous character with this profession re-breaks a (*) novelist’s legs using a wooden block and a sledgehammer. For 10 points, name this former profession of Annie Wilkes from Misery, many of whom are forced to work longer and more grueling hours than doctors.
Nurse [accept caretaker or equivalents, do not accept or prompt on doctor]
9

157455-)
The narrator of this book only smiles at a man who switches between English and French to note that “Man is born a coward.” A man in this book is suspected of cannibalism because he is found singing in the snow naked; that man and Chester find a guano island. A character in this book calls nature a “masterpiece” but notes that “perhaps the artist was a little mad” when describing how he shot three men before catching a butterfly; that character is (*) Stein. A man’s death is described as successful because he is “forgotten, unforgiven, and excessively romantic”; that death occurs when he is shot by Doramin for the death of his son. The title character of this novel marries Jewel in Hatusan after feeling guilty for letting Muslim pilgrims die on the sinking of the ship Patna. For 10 points, name this Joseph Conrad novel narrated by Marlow about the title disgraced sailor.
Lord Jim &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157489-)
This character tells a clerk that she dreamed of him and her bed filled with blood. In one work, this character complains that “no one now sees fairies any more” because the only incubus is the “holy friar,” who “will do no more than take your virtue.” This character tells the story of King Midas’s asses’ ears, and she is deaf in one ear due to fistfighting her husband because he read a sexist book. This character cites Solomon and Abraham to defend her multiple (*) marriages. This woman talks about a man who is given the incorrect answers “wealth,” “honor,” and “pleasure” to a riddle he has a year and a day to answer. This character, who had five husbands, tells a story in which a knight rapes a young woman and has to marry an old hag. For 10 points, name this character from Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales who tells a story about a quest to find out what women most desire.
the Wife of Bath [or Alison] &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157533-)
This author wrote a compendium of letters to be used “on the most important occasions,” including “to a young man too soon keeping a horse.” This author wrote a sequel about one of his works’ protagonists “in her exalted condition.” That woman was lampooned in a work about the deceitful “Syrena Tricksy” by Eliza Haywood, while Henry (*) Fielding created Squire Booby in another parody of that work. One of this author’s villains imprisons the protagonist in a brothel whose inhabitants are disguised as high-class women, while another gets into bed with the protagonist disguised as a housemaid; that man is Mr. B. This author’s Colonel Morden duels and kills Robert Lovelace, who drugs and rapes the title heroine of this man’s most famous epistolary novel. For 10 points, name this author of Clarissa and Pamela.
Samuel Richardson &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157562-)
One of this author’s characters magically shuts up a group of clowns who tease him about a non-existent wooden leg. In a parody, Byron calls himself a “degenerate modern wretch” while redoing a feat described by this author, since he only caught a cold instead of drowning. A quotation of this non-Shakespeare playwright’s line “Whoever loved that loved not at first sight?” and the phrase “a great reckoning in a little room” in As You Like It supposedly reference this playwright’s death in a (*) bar fight. In one work by this author, Neptune accidentally kidnaps a lover who swims the Hellespont to meet a priestess of Venus. This author created a scholar who sees the words “Homo, fuge” on his arm and asks “Was this the face that launched a thousand ships?” after summoning Helen and making a deal with the devil. For 10 points, name this author of Doctor Faustus.
Christopher “Kit” Marlowe &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157572-)
A woman in this play observes that the crow and the lark sing equally sweetly when no one is listening to them. Another character in this play messes with his “sand-blind” father by referring to himself in the third person as “Master”; that character’s lover repeats “In such a night” in an attempt to “out-night” him and later gives away a turquoise ring for a monkey. The query “where is fancy bred… in the heart, or in the head?” is asked in response to a courtship riddle that tricks two princes into picking gold and silver (*) caskets. A character in this play asks “If you prick us, do we not bleed?” to justify revenge on a character whose ships are lost at sea and owes a “pound of flesh.” For 10 points, name this William Shakespeare play where Portia dresses up as a lawyer to protect her husband Bassanio’s friend Antonio from Shylock.
The Merchant of Venice &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157592-)
This author wrote a dialogue in which the soul and body both complain about being stuck with each other. This poet wrote that a “forward youth” will “forsake his Muses” and “leave the books in dust” due to a man “like three-fork’d lightning.” In another work, this author of “The Coronet” remarks, “How vainly men themselves amaze / To win the palm, the oak, or bays.” He wrote about a man who “could not cease / In the inglorious arts of peace” in “An Horatian Ode Upon (*) Cromwell’s Return from Ireland,” and he recommended rolling strength and sweetness into a ball and wrote “I always hear / Time’s winged chariot hurrying near” in his most famous work. For 10 points, name this author of “The Garden” who lamented “Had we but world enough and time” in “To His Coy Mistress.”
Andrew Marvell &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157614-)
This work was accused of “calling Tullia’s ape a marmosyte” in a review entitled “The Anatomy of Melancholy” by Conrad Aiken. A description of “each in his prison, / Thinking of the key,” an image of a “boat responding / Gaily, to the hand expert with sail,” and the question “what have we given?” are recited by three speakers in this work. “Vials of ivory and coloured glass” surround a woman who cries “Jug Jug” and sits on a “burnished throne” in this poem. This work cites Jessie (*) Weston’s book From Ritual to Romance in extensive footnotes, and after describing an Unreal City, it asks whether a sprouted corpse will bloom. This work was dedicated to a man addressed as “il miglior (“meel-YOR”) fabbro,” Ezra Pound. It begins “April is the cruelest month.” For 10 points, name this seminal modernist poem about the Fisher King by T. S. Eliot.
“The Waste Land” &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157636-)
A character in this novel is too mortified to propose after calling his love interest his “dearest diddle-diddle-darling” after getting drunk on Vauxhall (“VAWKS-all”) rack punch. This novel’s introduction describes one character as “flexible in the joints” and another who “dances in a very amusing and natural manner.” This novel’s author inserted illustrations confirming a theory that one character murdered her husband for life insurance as her “second appearance in the character of Clytemnestra.” A character in this novel shouts “Vive la France!” and throws a (*) dictionary out of a carriage window; that wife of Rawdon Crawley has a friend who is eventually won over by the awkward Dobbin after her husband George Osborne dies at Waterloo. For 10 points, name this “novel without a hero” about Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp, by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157672-)
In a New York Times review, Geoff Dyer mocks one author’s memoir about this activity for its extremely frequent use of the modifiers “pretty” and “sort of.” That memoir’s narrator, who describes an elderly Mick Jagger still singing, says that he goes to bed early. In a story named after this activity, the narrator describes feeling like both the first and last man on Earth and watches money wash out of a drainpipe. He takes up this activity after being caught at a (*) bakery robbery, and deliberately stops performing this activity in order to defy his Borstal; that character is the angry young man Smith. It’s not love or Anne Frank, but Haruki Murakami wrote a memoir entitled “What I Talk About When I Talk About” this activity. For 10 points, Alan Sillitoe wrote about the “loneliness” of what “long-distance” activity?
running &lt;JC, World Literature&gt;
7

157691-)
Roald Dahl built a replica of this author’s house to write in. This author wrote a poem set at Aunt Annie’s farm in which he is “honoured among the foxes and pheasants” and “famous among the barns.” He evoked “Heads… hammer[ing] through daisies” “though they be mad and dead as nails” in a poem which declares “Though lovers be lost love shall not.” He wrote a poem which describes how “it was all / shining, it was Adam and maiden” and ends with the speaker saying that “time held me (*) green and dying.” This author of “And Death Shall Have No Dominion” wrote a work reminiscing about a time when he was “young and easy under the apple boughs,” “Fern Hill.” This author claimed “old age should burn and rave” and urges his addressee to “rage against the dying of the light.” For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of “Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night.”
Dylan Thomas &lt;MT, British Literature&gt;
7

157725-)
A novel in a series about this character ends with the observation that “in tragedy, innocence is not enough” after this character is bound by a spancel. Earlier in that book, four children drag Meg off to hunt an animal that they end up hacking to pieces. That novel, The Queen of Air and Darkness, follows a book in which this figure is transformed into a wild goose and an ant. In that series of novels about this figure, he is called “the Wart” and is [emphasize] advised by a man who owns the (*) owl Archimedes and lives through time backwards. That series of novels anachronistically mentions telegraphs and Hitler. Another work about this man was famously written in Newgate Prison. For 10 points, name this mythological figure who is the subject of T. H. White’s The Once and Future King and whose death titles a work by Thomas Malory.
King Arthur [prompt on the Wart until read] &lt;MT, British Literature&gt; Bonuses
7

157747-)
A poem about a man of this profession describes a “queen in opal or in ruby dress” who always has “the same one meaning, neither more nor less” and appears “not as she is, but as she fills his dream.” A poem about a person with this profession muses that “who can do a thing, will not, and who would do it, cannot… thus we half-men struggle” and laments “Ah, but a man’s reach should exceed his grasp, / Or what’s a heaven for?” That poem ends with the title character’s addressed wife (*) Lucrezia going to meet a “Cousin” and deals with his feelings of being surpassed by others in this profession. A poem about a man of this profession obsessed with the image of his dead wife is by Christina Rossetti about her brother Dante Gabriel. For 10 points, name this profession of the title character of a Robert Browning poem, Andrea del Sarto.
artist [or painter; or painting] &lt;JC, British Literature&gt;
7

157748-)
One of this author’s earlier works begins “Have you ever seen an Ineptitude?” and depicts Chamberlain as the Queen of Hearts; that was written in collaboration with Francis Carruthers Gould. This author of The Westminster Alice wrote about a boy who finds a large tapestry showing a man shooting a stag and refuses to rescue his aunt from a rainwater tank, claiming she might be the Devil in disguise. In another story, a young man helps J. P. Huddle overcome his addiction to routine by pretending to plot a massacre of all the Jews living in the neighborhood. The most famous story by this author of “The (*) Lumber Room” describes Framton Nuttel’s visit to Mrs. Sappleton, whose niece scares him off after she lies about the deaths of three hunters and a dog. For 10 points, name this author of “The Unrest-Cure” and “The Open Window.”
Saki [or Hector Hugh Munro] &lt;MT, British Literature&gt;
7

157956-)
This poet promised to “write my story for my better self” in a long poem that begins “Of writing many books there is no end.” This poet warned “God only, who made us rich, can make us poor” in a poem that opens “Let the world’s sharpness, like a clasping knife.” This poet claimed to do one action “with my childhood’s faith,” “purely, as they turn from Praise,” (*) “freely, as men strive for Right,” and hopefully “but…better after death.” In that sonnet, this poet answered the opening question with “to the depth and breadth and height my soul can reach.” For 10 points, name this Englishwoman whose Sonnets from the Portuguese include “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.”
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [prompt on just Browning; accept Elizabeth Barrett] &lt;MK&gt;
4

157975-)
A poem by this author exhorts “up, lad, up, ‘tis late for lying” and concludes “when the journey’s over there’ll be time enough for sleep.” Another of his poems describes “the old wind in the old anger” that once “threshed another wood.” This author of “Reveille” wrote that “early though the (*) laurel grows / it withers quicker than the rose.” This Latin scholar wrote “On Wenlock Edge” and a poem for a boy who was “chaired…through the market-place.” The speaker was told “give crowns and pounds and guineas, but not your heart away” in his poem “When I Was One-and-Twenty.” For 10 points, name this man who included “To An Athlete Dying Young” in A Shropshire Lad.
A.E. Housman [or Alfred Edward Housman] &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

158003-)
A novel by this author consists of monologues by six friends of the deceased Percival interspersed with italicized descriptions of a seascape. A character created by this author compares the range of human thought to the alphabet and resents being stuck at “Q.” That novel by this author of The Waves ends as the Ramsay family sail to the title place and (*) Lily Briscoe finishes a painting. The title woman of a stream-of-consciousness novel by this author admires the suicide of Septimus Smith. In an essay, she imagined “Judith Shakespeare” to show why women writers need the title space. For 10 points name this author of To the Lighthouse, Mrs Dalloway, and A Room of One’s Own.
(Adeline) Virginia Woolf &lt;CK&gt;
4

158157-)
In a play titled for one of these people, Bosola uses some apricots to uncover a widow’s pregnancy. The wife of John of Gaunt was commemorated in a poem titled for one of these people by Geoffrey Chaucer. One of these people is murdered by her brothers in a play by Richard Webster set in (*) Malfi. A poem titled for one of these people ends by describing Claus of Innsbruck’s bronze sculpture of Neptune. In that poem, one of these women has a “spot of joy,” was “painted on the wall” by Fra Pandolf, and had “a heart too soon made glad.” Robert Browning had a Ferrarese nobleman reminisce about his “Last” one of—for 10 points—what kind of noblewoman?
duchess [accept The Duchess of Malfi, The Book of the Duchess, or “My Last Duchess”] &lt;MK&gt;
4

158221-)
A poem tells one of these people that they will “wander like a breeze” and hear an “eternal language.” The speaker wishes that “all seasons shall be sweet” to one of these people in Coleridge’s “Frost At Midnight.” Another poem describes “bugles calling for” these title people from “sad shires,” who are commemorated by “Only the stuttering (*) rifles’ rapid rattle.” A poem titled for them ends “How can we know the dancer from the dance?” A poem begins asking, “What passing-bells for” these title people, who “die as cattle?” For 10 points, name these people who are “Doomed” in a Wilfred Owen “Anthem,” and who W.B. Yeats saw as he “walk[ed] through a schoolroom.”
children [or youths; accept kids and other clear equivalents; accept more specific answers like school children or boys; prompt on soldiers by asking “How does the title refer to them?”; accept “Anthem for Doomed Youth” or “Among School Children”] &lt;MK&gt;
4

158399-)
2. This character’s announcement of his arrival with the phrase “it’s good to see you” marks the first of three times he says “the word,” which occurs before a journey in which this man’s attendants are eaten. A character played by Eric Idle is about to mention this character’s penis when this character cuts him off by mentioning “dirty work afoot.” A narrative interlude discusses this man’s exploits at the Battle of Badon Hill and his tussles with the Dragon of Agnor and the “vicious Chicken of Bristol.” This character, whose death follows his inability to identify the (*) capital of Assyria, is the subject of a song that mentions his willingness to have “his liver removed and his bowels unplugged and his nostrils raped” shortly before he encounters a three-headed foe. The line “when danger reared its ugly head, he bravely turned his tail and fled” describes, for 10 points, what cowardly knight from Monty Python and the Holy Grail?
Sir Robin the Not-Quite-So-Brave-as-Sir-Lancelot &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158451-)
14. A novel by this author depicts such characters as Madame d’Ortolan, Mrs. Mulverhill, and Temudjin Oh, all of whom are agents of The Concern with the ability to “flit” between parallel realities. The line “It was the day my grandmother exploded” opens another of his novels, in which Prentice McHoan attempts to solve the mystery of his uncle Rory’s disappearance. This author of Transition and The Crow Road made his debut with 1984’s The Wasp Factory. Jernau Morat Gurgeh is recruited by Special Circumstances to overthrow the Empire of Azad in The (*) Player of Games, the second novel in a series by this man that ended with a 2012 novel that depicts the Gzilt choosing to Sublime and is called The Hydrogen Sonata. He created a Changer named Horza who serves as an agent of the Idiran Empire in its war against a post-scarcity civilization led by hyper-intelligent Minds in his novel Consider Phlebas. For 10 points, name this Scottish author of the Culture series.
Iain M. Banks [or Iain Menzies Banks] &lt;Carson&gt;
9

158476-)
19. Near the end of the film in which this object appears, it is called “wonderful” and “fateful” as a man hands it over and says, “Guard it well,” after it is blamed for an action that hadn’t happened since the Boston Tea Party. A doddering old man, who demands to see this object after saying that it was “precisely how [he] started,” is called a “giant,” confusing two children. After this object’s first screen appearance, a man’s promise to demonstrate its “extremely interesting” uses leads to a song in which this object is tied to a “sense of conquest” and colonial projects such as “railways through Africa.” A lullaby sung with the aid of a (*) snow globe depicting St. Paul’s Cathedral inspires a boy to try to give this object to a beggar woman, after which his father demands that he put it in savings, inadvertently leading to a bank run. The song “Feed the Birds” inspires Michael Banks’s attempted use of, for 10 points, what pre-decimal British coin in Mary Poppins?
Michael’s tuppence [or twopence; prompt on answers mentioning “coin from Mary Poppins” or similar before “coin”] &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158492-)
15. This publication is supposed to contain the phrase “le petit déjeuner est prêt,” which is referenced after a man repeatedly burns his hand by reaching into boiling water to retrieve eggs. A copy of this publication is only visible in scenes in which it accompanies a green textbook by E. W. Whitmarsh. Instructions to make use of this publication appear on-screen as a man’s ear bleeds after he unlocks the “boîte diabolique” and plays one of the “forbidden notes” on the piano. Uses for “Garry Gum” and (*) “Anti-Garry Gum,” the advice to “never give a gypsy calcium,” and the result that “sulfur is not attracted to magnets” are some of the many things that narrator Nigel Lambert says should be written in this publication. For 10 points, name this publication where you are instructed to “write that down” several times in each episode of the BBC mock educational show Look around You.
your copybook [accept any answers that mentions the copybook from Look around You] &lt;Hart&gt;
9

158499-)
In a book written during the reign of this monarch, Lucilla decides to pretend to be in love with two best friends, Philautus and the title Euphues [yoo-fyoo-eez]. This monarch was in power for most of writer John Lyly’s career. In another book written during the reign of this monarch, Archimago conjures a dream to plant the idea of Una’s infidelity in the Redcrosse Knight’s mind. For the point, name this monarch who is represented by Gloriana in Edmund Spenser’s The Faerie Queene.
Elizabeth I (prompt on Elizabeth)
5

158537-)
In one poem by this writer, a golden eagle lifts the speaker away from a glass temple to Venus, and a short work by him features Anelida. This author of The House of Fame also wrote an instruction manual on the use of the astrolabe and helped establish St. Valentine’s Day as a romantic holiday in The Parlement of (*) Foules. Nicholas and Alisoun trick John into sleeping in a tub in a section of a work by this author which also features a story in which a knight is tasked with learning what women want. A group of travelers stop at the Tabard Inn in this author’s most famous work’s General Prologue. For 10 points, name this Medieval English author of The Canterbury Tales.
Geoffrey Chaucer &lt;CL&gt;
4

158564-)
In one scene, a character with this surname looks up from his reading to exclaim that he wishes a young man “sprained in his ankle in the first dance” that evening. One character with this surname is called one of “the silliest girls in the country” for her obsession with Captain Carter, and another interrupts a reading from Fordyce Sermons. Collins proposes to a character with this surname but eventually marries (*) Charlotte Lucas instead. Colonel Wickham elopes with a character with this surname, Lydia, while another ends up with Mr. Darcy. For 10 points, identify this last name of Kitty, Jane, Mary, and Elizabeth, a group of sisters described by Jane Austen in Pride and Prejudice.
Bennet [or Elizabeth Bennet or Mary Bennet or Jane Bennet or Catherine “Kitty” Bennet or Lydia Bennet or Mr. Bennet or Mrs. Bennet or the Bennets or the Bennet family or the Bennet sisters] &lt;AL/CL&gt;
4

158582-)
One character in this play says that he is “twelve or fourteen moon-shines” behind another character and disparages the “plague of custom.” A character in this play returns from exile disguised as Caius, and another is described as “The argument of your praise, balm of your age.” After being framed for a murder plot, one character in this play disguises himself as Tom (*) O’Bedlam and encounters a man wandering around in a storm after being abandoned by all but Kent and his Fool. In this play, Edmund frames Edgar and the title monarch divides his assets among Regan and Goneril, snubbing Cordelia. For 10 points, identify this Shakespearean tragedy about the title monarch.
King Lear &lt;CL&gt;
4

158594-)
One work featuring this character takes place on Speranza and was written by Michel Tournier. In one appearance, this character’s story is almost ignored by an English writer who would rather write about a woman’s experiences in Bahia. This wearer of a straw hat who might have cut out a friend’s tongue befriends Susan Barton in a work by J. M. Coetzee, and in another, he sells (*) Xury to a ship captain. This character lands on the “Island of Despair” and converts a cannibal to Christianity, naming him after a day of the week. Most likely, this character is based on Alexander Selkirk. For 10 points, name this title character of a novel by Daniel Defoe.
Robinson Crusoe [accept either; accept Cruso; accept Friday until “friend’s”] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158596-)
In this novel, one character’s family wants him to marry a half-Jewish orphan named Miss Swartz. One character in this novel wraps green yarn around a man’s arms while making a purse, and this novel includes the question, “Which of us is happy in this world?” The main character in this novel, which is framed by a puppet show, probably kills Jos for life insurance at its end. In this novel, (*) Dobbin survives war but George Osborne dies just before the Battle of Waterloo after impregnating Amelia Sedley, a former student of Miss Pinkerton’s Academy and a friend of the anti-heroine, Becky Sharp. For 10 points, name this best-known novel by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair [accept Vanity Fair: Pen and Pencil Sketches of English Society; accept Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero; prompt on either subtitle] &lt;AL/CL&gt;
4

158621-)
This author who proclaims, “I was angry with my friend,” at the beginning of one poem wrote Vala about characters like Luvah, Tharmas, and Urizen created by the fall of Albion, three of the title Four Zoas. This author of “A Poison Tree” and “The Sick Rose” created a character who can “scarcely cry ‘weep!’” in a poem which shares its title with one about a “little (*) black thing among the snow,” “The Chimney Sweeper.” In one poem, this writer asks, “What immortal hand or eye, / Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?” and describes the title animal as “burning bright.” For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of “The Tyger,” included in his collection Songs of Experience.
William Blake &lt;RY/CL&gt;
4

158639-)
Nicolas tells Nicky that the soldiers “don’t like [him] either, my darling” in this writer’s play One for the Road. This writer of “memory plays” including A Kind of Alaska created a character who speaks of his love for Irish sunsets and police, and he also wrote a play which uses reverse chronology to explain the past of (*) Jerry and Emma. In one work by this writer, Meg gives Stanley a toy drum before he tries to rape LuLu and is taken by Goldberg and McCann. Two characters in another of this writer’s plays argue about the meaning of “light the kettle,” but then Ben learns he must kill Gus. For 10 points, name this British playwright behind The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.
Harold Pinter &lt;CL&gt;
4

158658-)
. One work by this author instructs the reader to “emprison her soft hand, and let her rave” if “thy mistress some rich anger shows.” One work dedicated to this author describes a “branded and ensanguin’d brow / Which was like Cain’s or Christ’s,” and instructs to go “to Rome.” This author, whose death inspired an elegy by (*) Percy Shelley, describes Ruth who “stood in tears amid the alien corn” in one poem. This poet of “To Autumn” wrote one poem reacting to “Chapman’s Homer,” and another poem by him begins by calling the title object an “unravish’d bride of quietness.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Ode to a Nightingale” and “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
John Keats &lt;RY&gt; Bonuses
4

158670-)
A work often paired with this work describes a hunter “holding the Wolf in chace,” and this work was originally published under the pen name Glirastes in Leigh Hunt’s The Examiner. This work is frequently compared to one also based on the work of Diodorus Siculus which imagines a character wondering “What powerful but unrecorded race / Once dwelt in that annihilated place” and was written by (*) Horace Smith. This work describes a “shattered visage” and a “sneer of cold command” as seen by a “traveller from an antique land” reading the inscription, “Look on my works, ye Mighty, and despair!” For 10 points, name this poem about a “King of Kings,” a work by Percy Bysshe Shelley.
“Ozymandias” &lt;BL/CL&gt;
4

158690-)
In one scene, a character with this surname looks up from his reading to exclaim that he wishes a young man “sprained in his ankle in the first dance” that evening. One character with this surname is called one of “the silliest girls in the country” for her obsession with Captain Carter, and another interrupts a reading from Fordyce Sermons. Collins proposes to a character with this surname but eventually marries (*) Charlotte Lucas instead. Colonel Wickham elopes with a character with this surname, Lydia, while another ends up with Mr. Darcy. For 10 points, identify this last name of Kitty, Jane, Mary, and Elizabeth, a group of sisters described by Jane Austen in Pride and Prejudice.
Bennet [or Elizabeth Bennet or Mary Bennet or Jane Bennet or Catherine “Kitty” Bennet or Lydia Bennet or Mr. Bennet or Mrs. Bennet or the Bennets or the Bennet family or the Bennet sisters] &lt;AL/CL&gt;
4

158708-)
One character in this play says that he is “twelve or fourteen moon-shines” behind another character and disparages the “plague of custom.” A character in this play returns from exile disguised as Caius, and another is described as “The argument of your praise, balm of your age.” After being framed for a murder plot, one character in this play disguises himself as Tom (*) O’Bedlam and encounters a man wandering around in a storm after being abandoned by all but Kent and his Fool. In this play, Edmund frames Edgar and the title monarch divides his assets among Regan and Goneril, snubbing Cordelia. For 10 points, identify this Shakespearean tragedy about the title monarch.
King Lear &lt;CL&gt;
4

158720-)
One work featuring this character takes place on Speranza and was written by Michel Tournier. In one appearance, this character’s story is almost ignored by an English writer who would rather write about a woman’s experiences in Bahia. This wearer of a straw hat who might have cut out a friend’s tongue befriends Susan Barton in a work by J. M. Coetzee, and in another, he sells (*) Xury to a ship captain. This character lands on the “Island of Despair” and converts a cannibal to Christianity, naming him after a day of the week. Most likely, this character is based on Alexander Selkirk. For 10 points, name this title character of a novel by Daniel Defoe.
Robinson Crusoe [accept either; accept Cruso; accept Friday until “friend’s”] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158722-)
In this novel, one character’s family wants him to marry a half-Jewish orphan named Miss Swartz. One character in this novel wraps green yarn around a man’s arms while making a purse, and this novel includes the question, “Which of us is happy in this world?” The main character in this novel, which is framed by a puppet show, probably kills Jos for life insurance at its end. In this novel, (*) Dobbin survives war but George Osborne dies just before the Battle of Waterloo after impregnating Amelia Sedley, a former student of Miss Pinkerton’s Academy and a friend of the anti-heroine, Becky Sharp. For 10 points, name this best-known novel by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair [accept Vanity Fair: Pen and Pencil Sketches of English Society; accept Vanity Fair: A Novel without a Hero; prompt on either subtitle] &lt;AL/CL&gt;
4

158747-)
This author who proclaims, “I was angry with my friend,” at the beginning of one poem wrote Vala about characters like Luvah, Tharmas, and Urizen created by the fall of Albion, three of the title Four Zoas. This author of “A Poison Tree” and “The Sick Rose” created a character who can “scarcely cry ‘weep!’” in a poem which shares its title with one about a “little (*) black thing among the snow,” “The Chimney Sweeper.” In one poem, this writer asks, “What immortal hand or eye, / Dare frame thy fearful symmetry?” and describes the title animal as “burning bright.” For 10 points, name this Romantic poet of “The Tyger,” included in his collection Songs of Experience.
William Blake &lt;RY/CL&gt;
4

158765-)
Nicolas tells Nicky that the soldiers “don’t like [him] either, my darling” in this writer’s play One for the Road. This writer of “memory plays” including A Kind of Alaska created a character who speaks of his love for Irish sunsets and police, and he also wrote a play which uses reverse chronology to explain the past of (*) Jerry and Emma. In one work by this writer, Meg gives Stanley a toy drum before he tries to rape LuLu and is taken by Goldberg and McCann. Two characters in another of this writer’s plays argue about the meaning of “light the kettle,” but then Ben learns he must kill Gus. For 10 points, name this British playwright behind The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.
Harold Pinter &lt;CL&gt;
4

158784-)
. One work by this author instructs the reader to “emprison her soft hand, and let her rave” if “thy mistress some rich anger shows.” One work dedicated to this author describes a “branded and ensanguin’d brow / Which was like Cain’s or Christ’s,” and instructs to go “to Rome.” This author, whose death inspired an elegy by (*) Percy Shelley, describes Ruth who “stood in tears amid the alien corn” in one poem. This poet of “To Autumn” wrote one poem reacting to “Chapman’s Homer,” and another poem by him begins by calling the title object an “unravish’d bride of quietness.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Ode to a Nightingale” and “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
John Keats &lt;RY&gt; Bonuses
4

158819-)
In one work, Meredith Blake and Elsa Greer are part of a group of five named for these animals, suspects for the murder of Amyas Crale as investigated by Poirot. In one novel, Benjamin the donkey can read as well as one of these animals. The phrase “sucks to your ass-mar” is used to tease one character named for one of these animals whose death represents the (*) “end of innocence” and occurs due to a falling boulder after his glasses have long been used to start fires. In another work, two of these animals represent Stalin and Trotsky. For 10 points, name these barnyard animals exemplified by Napoleon and Snowball in Animal Farm, as well as E. B. White’s Wilbur from Charlotte’s Web.
pigs [begrudgingly accept sows or swine] &lt;CL&gt;
4

158841-)
In one work by this author, the role of the senex is fulfilled by Kno’well, while Kitely fears his wife’s infidelity. A poem by this writer urges the title woman to “leave a kiss but in the cup” and is addressed to Celia, whom he asks to “Drink (*) to me only with thine eyes.” This writer who featured Brainworm in Every Man in His Humour wrote about Corbaccio and Corvino falling for the tricks of Mosca. In another play by this author, Jeremy disguises himself as Captain Face after Lovewit’s departure from London. A pioneer of comedy of humours, for 10 points, name this Shakespearean era playwright behind Volpone and The Alchemist.
Ben(jamin) Jonson &lt;CL&gt;
4

158853-)
Cyril Beardsall narrates one novel by this author which takes place in Nethermere and focuses on Laetitia. This author of The White Peacock wrote a short story in which a young boy dies after betting on Malabar with Bassett and traced the Brangwen family through multiple works. Another novel by this author focuses on the mother and son duo Gertrude and Paul (*) Morel. This author of The Rainbow wrote a novel which prompted an obscenity trial against Penguin Books and describes the affair of a woman whose husband has been paralyzed from the waist down with the gamekeeper Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, name this British author of Lady Chatterley’s Lover.
David Herbert Lawrence &lt;AL/CL&gt;
4

158872-)
This character orders a hunting group not to shoot a white hare in the work in which he appears, and at a party attended by Lady Monmouth, this character faints when he sees the sailor James in the window. This character hires Alan Campbell for one task, and an opium addict refers to this character by the nickname (*) “Prince Charming.” After watching a substandard performance of Romeo and Juliet, this character breaks up with Sibyl Vane. This character is mentored by Lord Henry Wotton, and stabs a portrait by Basil Hallward in the work he appears in. For 10 points, name this title character of a novel about a “picture” by Oscar Wilde.
Dorian Gray [accept either; do not accept “The Picture of Dorian Gray”] &lt;RY&gt;
4

158887-)
After a romantic scene in this novel, one character pushes a woman’s clothes through a ventilator after calling her an “impudent strumpet.” Mitsima teaches one of this novel’s characters how to work with clay, and that character watches Three Weeks in a Helicopter and is reminded of Linda and Popé’s relationship. After being impregnated by the Director of (*) Hatcheries and Conditioning, one woman in this novel is relocated from New Mexico, where her son often quotes Shakespeare, by Lenina Crowne and Bernard Marx. In this novel, Mustapha Mond helps run a society where people undergo Bokanovsky’s Process and take the drug soma. For 10 points, name this dystopian novel by Aldous Huxley.
Brave New World &lt;AL/CL&gt;
4

158896-)
In this work, one character discovers his sight is returning when he can discern a chain around his wife’s neck. In this novel, a sketch of Rosamond Oliver helps one character learn the protagonist’s identity, and the final chapter opens, “Reader, I married him.” A tombstone in this novel reads “Resurgam,” and this novel’s protagonist is confined to the (*) Red Room. This novel’s protagonist, to whom St. John (“SIN-jin”) proposes, is forced to stand on a stool by Mr. Brocklehurst at Lowood Institution. In this novel, Thornfield Hall is burned down by Bertha Mason, and the title character falls in love with Edward Rochester. For 10 points, name this most famous novel of Charlotte Brontë.
Jane Eyre [accept Jane Eyre: An Autobiography] &lt;RY&gt;
4

158912-)
In this novel, one character plans to tie a young girl to a loom to keep her from wandering off. Two characters in this novel are confused by the letters “I.H.S.” appearing on lard cakes, and one of them had earlier falsely accused Jem Rodney of a crime, though the real perpetrator’s skeleton is later found in a ditch. Molly Farren’s death clears the way for (*) Nancy Lammeter’s marriage in this novel, which focuses on a character who leaves Lantern Yard due to the efforts of William Dane. After the theft of his gold by Dunstan, the title character of this novel adopts the daughter of Godfrey Cass, Eppie. For 10 points, name this novel about the title weaver of Raveloe, a work by George Eliot.
Silas Marner: The Weaver of Raveloe &lt;AL/CL&gt;
4

158947-)
A woman who was raised among practitioners of this activity on Lant Street is tricked into entering an insane asylum by “Gentleman” Rivers in a 2002 novel. A character who engages in this activity exclaims “I am an Englishman; Where are my privileges?” while on trial. An archaic euphemism for this non-sexual activity titles a novel by Sarah Waters about Sue Trinder. While living on Saffron Hill, the title character of a novel initially believes that a (*) group that engages in this activity makes handkerchiefs for a living. Mr. Brownlow attempts to save a boy from getting caught up in this activity after Charley Bates targets him with it. Fagin (“FAYG-in”) trains a group of children to engage in this crime. For 10 points, the Artful Dodger excels at what type of street crime in Dickens’s Oliver Twist?
pickpocketing [accept stealing, thieving, petty theft, or being a fingersmith; prompt on larceny, or anything less specific about (street) crime] &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
7

158972-)
A boy asks a character working in this profession “Do you love me?” after mistaking that character for a visitor to his family’s bakery in Millau (“mee-YO”). The narrator describes leaving university to work in this job in Devonshire in Vera Brittain’s memoir Testament of Youth. A character with this job is warned against playing a possibly booby-trapped piano by her future love interest, a Sikh sapper, while living in the (*) abandoned Villa San Girolamo. Briony (“BRY-nee”) Tallis works in this profession in the third part of Ian McEwan’s (“muck-YOO-in’s”) Atonement. A Canadian member of this profession named Hana assists the title character of Michael Ondaatje’s (“on-DAH-chee’s”) The English Patient. For 10 points, women of what profession are often depicted doing tasks like changing bedpans in novels set during the World Wars?
nurses &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
7

158978-)
In one of these poems, the speaker says of his critics, “I may be straight, though they themselves be bevel,” before reminding them that “all men are bad and in their badness reign.” William Empson’s Seven Types of Ambiguity begins by unpacking a line about “bare ruined choirs” in one of these poems. In an Oscar Wilde story, Cyril forges a portrait to convince Erskine (“UR-skin”) that their dedicatee, Mr. W.H., was a young (*) actor. One of these poems states that “music hath a far more pleasing sound” than the addressee, whose hair is compared to “black wires.” Another of these poems declares that though the “rough winds do shake the darling buds of May,” the addressee shall live on “so long as men can breathe or eyes can see.” For 10 points, name these 14-line poems including one beginning, “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s day?”
sonnets by William Shakespeare [or Shakespearean sonnets; prompt on partial answers, such as sonnets or Shakespeare poems] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
7

158988-)
This character reflects that “It is impossible to convey the life-sensation of any given epoch of one’s existence,” concluding that “We live, as we dream – alone.” This character comes across a reed hut where he finds a note reading “Wood for you. Hurry up” and an old book on seamanship that contains margin notes he mistakes for a cipher. This character spends weeks waiting for rivets necessary for some repairs to arrive. This character discusses the wilderness of Roman-era (*) London with a group of five men, including a “Director of Companies,” in the frame story of a novel. In that novel, this character discovers the postscriptum “exterminate all the brutes!” in a report by a man who dies with the words “the horror! the horror!” For 10 points, name this narrator who searches for Kurtz in the Congo in Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness.
Charles Marlow [or Charles Marlow; or Charlie Marlow] &lt;AP, World/Other Literature&gt;
7

158996-)
This author tells the title woman, “I bid you find your thrall, though you, to me, do no dalliance” in his ballade “To Rosemounde.” This author bemoaned “I am so sorry now that you’ve been light!” in his final poem, titled “Complaint Unto His Purse.” At the end of one work, he admits that his works have “tended toward sin” in a poem known as his namesake “retraction.” In one poem, he wrote about a poet who (*) dreams that he encounters Octavian’s hunt and consoles a knight who lost a game of chess to Fortuna. This author of The Book of the Duchess wrote a work whose narrator meets a group at the Tabard Inn traveling to the tomb of Thomas à Becket. For 10 points, name this author who included stories from the Knight and the Wife of Bath in The Canterbury Tales.
Geoffrey Chaucer &lt;CK, World/Other Literature&gt;
7

159002-)
A member of this movement claims to have stolen a policeman’s helmet after being blackmailed with the word “Eulalie.” Maurice puts a Beethoven string quartet on the gramophone before suicidally answering the door for members of this movement in the novel Point Counter Point. Roderick Spode in the Jeeves novels is a parody of a leader of this movement whose marriage to Diana Mitford is depicted in her sister Jessica’s memoir Hons and Rebels. Joyce Emily Hammond goes abroad to (*) fight for this ideology at the behest of a teacher who calls her students the “crème de la crème” in Muriel Spark’s The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie. Lord Darlington’s apparent support for this ideology is a recurring theme in Kazuo Ishiguro’s The Remains of the Day. For 10 points, name this movement whose British supporters often idolized Benito Mussolini.
British fascism [or Nazism; or the British Union of Fascists; accept the Black Shorts or Falangism] &lt;JH, British Literature&gt;
7

159037-)
Louise Labé’s first sonnet, “The Sting,” opens by stating that “Never was [this man] more struck by so divine an aspect” as that seen by the speaker. An episode in this man’s story is reimagined in Sonnet 189 of Petrarch, in which “ready, cruel” thoughts propel an object “laden with forgetfulness.” In another poem, this man recalls being swallowed up by a “booming billow” after catching sight of a lofty mountain beyond the pillars of Hercules. This person is told “As you set (*) out… / hope the voyage is a long one, / full of adventure, full of discovery” in a poem titled for his homeland by Constantine Cavafy. In Canto 26 of Inferno, Dante encounters this man bound in a single flame with Diomedes. For 10 points, the vow “To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield” ends a Lord Tennyson poem titled for what wiley protagonist of a Homeric epic?
Ulysses [or Odysseus] &lt;JB, European Literature&gt;
7

159050-)
One of this author’s characters feels a “more gentle universe, parallel to our own” while staring at a woman’s bindi. An essay that mainly criticizes this author imagines the punningly-named character Toby Awknotuby. The lesbian “Niece-of-Shame” and the seemingly prophetic letter-writer Horst Ibelgaufts appear in one novel by this writer. Michel is hurt after finding his wife’s birth control pills in a novel by this author, in which (*) Keisha changes her name to Natalie. James Wood coined the term “hysterical realism” to criticize one of this author’s novels, in which FATE and the Islamic fundamentalist group KEVIN plan to disrupt the FutureMouse conference. That novel begins with Archie Jones’s attempted suicide. For 10 points, name this contemporary British novelist of NW and White Teeth.
Zadie Smith &lt;VS, British Literature&gt;
7

159078-)
During a march that ends this play’s second act, a Euripides-quoting character gives the antagonist a trombone, telling him “blow, Machiavelli, blow.” That antagonist’s daughter compares him unfavorably to the whiskey distiller Bodger. In this play, the title character’s fiancée inherits the family business after revealing that, since his parents were married in Australia, he is technically a (*) foundling. In its second act, the ruffian Bill Walker strikes the volunteer Jenny Hill for refusing to return his newly-converted girlfriend, Mogg Abijam. In this play, Greek scholar Adolphus Cusins is engaged to the title daughter of arms manufacturer Andrew Undershaft. For 10 points, name this George Bernard Shaw play about a member of the Salvation Army.
Major Barbara &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
7

159098-)
This place titles a poem whose speaker compares his younger self to a roe, bounding “o’er the mountains, by the sides of the deep rivers, and the lonely streams.” In a poem titled for this place, seeing “wreaths of smoke” in the trees leads the narrator to imagine “some hermit’s cave, where by his fire the hermit sits alone.” In that poem, the speaker hopes that memories of this place will impress “a mansion for all the lovely forms” onto the mind of his (*) sister Dorothy. This place titles a poem from Lyrical Ballads that begins, “Five years have past; five summers, with the length of five long winters!” That poem is entitled “Line Composed a Few Miles Above” this building. For 10 points, name this ruined cathedral on the River Wye that inspired a poem by William Wordsworth.
Tintern Abbey [accept “Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey on Revisiting the banks of the River Wye During a Tour. July 13, 1798”] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
7

159125-)
In a poem, this character describes when “then fled, O brethren, the wicked juba / and wandered wandered far / from curfew joys in the… night.” Robert Hayden wrote that “ballad” about this man, who in a novel teaches himself to read by stealing a copy of John Bunyan’s The Life and Death of Mr. Badman. In that novel, a crazed axe-wielding character named Will goads this man into murdering (*) Margaret Whitehead. This character undertook his best-known action after a prophetic dream in which drops of blood fall on an ear of corn, according to an account written by his lawyer Thomas Gray. For 10 points, William Styron wrote a novel describing the Confessions of what leader of an 1831 slave uprising in Virginia?
Nat Turner [accept either underlined name] &lt;CK, American Literature&gt;
7

159131-)
A poem in this collection describes the “gale of life” that “blows so hard, ’twill soon be gone: to-day the Roman and his trouble are ashes under Uricon.” The last stanza of a poem in this collection tells of an Eastern king, whose would-be assassins put “strychnine in his cup, and shook to see him drink it up.” It includes a poem whose dead speaker asks “Is football playing along the shore, now I stand up no more?” In addition to “On (*) Wenlock Edge,” it includes a poem describing men who “look into the pewter pot, to see the world as the world’s not,” noting: “malt does more than Milton can, to justify God’s ways to man.” For 10 points, name this collection, including “Is My Team Ploughing” and “Terence, This is Stupid Stuff,” written by A. E. Housman.
A Shropshire Lad &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
7

159148-)
A novel set in this nation includes a scene in which the title character is mauled by prostitutes after the drunken Granger drags him into the House of the Five Hundred Girls. In that novel, a journalist stationed in this country lies to his mistress that his Catholic wife in England has granted him a divorce. A character starts a plastics company in this nation that produces bicycle pumps that are filled with explosives. That character is inspired by the ideas of (*) York Harding in arguing that this country needs a “Third Force.” In a novel set here, Phuong (“FOO-ung”) becomes the center of a love triangle involving Alden Pyle and Thomas Fowler. For 10 points, Graham Greene set The Quiet American in what nation that gained its independence from the French in the Indochina War?
Vietnam [accept Indochina until read] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
7

159156-)
In one essay, this author argued that “mind and millinery” writing reinforced “the popular prejudice against the more solid education of women.” This author wrote a novella in which the revived corpse of a maid informs Latimer that his wife Bertha is trying to poison him. This author of “Silly Novels by Lady Writers” wrote a story in which the clergyman Mr. Gilfil falls in unrequited love with Tina Sarti. In another novel, (*) she wrote about Sir John Raffles who blackmails the banker and former purveyor of stolen Nicholas Bulstrode. In addition to The Lifted Veil and Scenes of Clerical Life, she wrote a novel that ends with Will Ladislaw announcing his marriage to Edward Casaubon’s wife. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Dorothea Brooke in Middlemarch.
George Eliot [or Mary Anne Evans] &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
7

159189-)
In a story from this collection, a character is scolded for reading The Apache Chief instead of studying Roman history. This collection includes a story whose protagonist angrily shouts “Stop!” when his infant son begins to cry after he reads a Byron poem aloud. In another story, the narrator skips school and meets a strange man who describes whipping little boys for having sweethearts. In addition to depicting Little Chandler in “A (*) Little Cloud,” it includes a story whose narrator visits a porcelain stall run by a proprietress who is preoccupied flirting with two Englishmen. That story’s narrator goes to a bazaar, but fails to purchase a gift for Mangan’s sister. For 10 points, name this collection that includes “An Encounter” and “Araby,” written by James Joyce.
Dubliners &lt;CK, British Literature&gt;
7

159207-)
In a parody of this poem, the speaker asks God, Venus, and Mercury for a tobacco shop so that he can escape the “damn’d profession of writing.” This poem is also referenced by a tourist attraction in the Whispering Glades Memorial Park in Evelyn Waugh’s (“EEV-lin WAH’s”) novel The Loved One and by the closing lines of Lawrence Ferlinghetti’s “Junkman’s Obbligato.” This poem describes peace “dropping from the veils of the morning to where the (*) cricket sings.” This poem ends with the speaker standing “on the pavements grey” and hearing “in the deep heart’s core” the sound of water at the title place, where he hopes to have “nine bean-rows” and a “small cabin… of clay and wattles made.” For 10 points, name this poem that states “I will arise and go now” to the title island, a work of W. B. Yeats.
“The Lake Isle of Innisfree” (The first clue refers to “The Lake Isle” by Ezra Pound.) &lt;JB, British Literature&gt;
7

159242-)
This word precedes the phrase “I listen” before the statement that “for many a time I have been half in love with easeful Death” in John Keats’s “Ode to a Nightingale.” A poem with this adjective in its title describes how “the tangled bine-stems scored the sky like strings of broken lyres.” An animal described by this adjective reminds the speaker of “some blessed Hope, whereof he knew and I was unaware” in a poem that begins with the line “I leant upon a coppice (“COP-iss”) gate.” A place described by this adjective is “swept with confused alarms of struggle and flight” and is “where ignorant armies clash by night.” That place is a metaphorical plain mentioned in Matthew Arnold’s “Dover Beach.” For 10 points, name this adjective that describes the title thrush of a poem by Thomas Hardy.
darkling &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159271-)
In a play by this author, a gentleman protests that “Louisa” doesn’t rhyme with “Whitsun week” while listening to love poetry addressed to his chauffeur’s sister Louisa. One of this playwright’s characters says that “to be in hell is to drift” and “to be in heaven is to steer” during a debate about the Life Force. In a play by this author, it is revealed that Ann persuaded her father to name the author of The Revolutionist’s Handbook as one of her guardians in a scheme to marry him. That play about the anarchist Jack Tanner includes a third act called “Don Juan in Hell,” which is often performed separately. This author used the Serbo-Bulgarian War as the backdrop for a play in which Raina Petkoff calls Bluntschli her “chocolate-cream soldier.” For 10 points, name this author of Man and Superman and Arms and the Man.
George Bernard Shaw &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159277-)
One of this author’s protagonists realizes that he doesn’t know how to make modern weaponry or a printing press after he ends up in the Medieval Era, but he’s taken for a miracle-worker anyway because of his gold cross. In a novel by this author, Sylvia plots to cut down the Great Tree of Groby, which is a symbol of her husband’s family, after learning of his affair with the suffragette Valentine Wannop. This author wrote a novel that begins with the line “This is the saddest story I have ever heard,” in which John Dowell’s wife Florence fakes a heart ailment to facilitate an extramarital affair. For 10 points, name this novelist who wrote about the “last Tory” Christopher Tietjens (“TEE-chins”) and the soldier Edward Ashburnham in Parade’s End and The Good Soldier, respectively.
Ford Madox Ford [or Ford Hermann Hueffer] (The first sentence is about Ladies Whose Bright Eyes.) &lt;British Literature&gt; Bonuses
7

159294-)
A character in this novel is intrigued by a photo of Charlie “Whitey” Durham, the father of a child whom Ambrosia gave birth to during an earthquake in 1907. At the beginning of this novel, a character compares his significance to that of a pebble on a beach or a needle in a haystack, and tries to gas himself in his car. A character in this novel tries to convince Mickey to hang a portrait of a revolutionary hero in O’Connell’s pub in a chapter that recounts “the root canals of Mangal Pande.” In this novel, Joshua Chalfen joins a radical animal rights group called Fate, and Millat joins a Muslim fundamentalist organization called KEVIN. In this novel, Archie Jones’s best friend Samad Iqbal tries to raise his English sons as traditional Bengali Muslims. For 10 points, name this novel by Zadie Smith named after some body parts.
White Teeth &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159298-)
This poet wrote a sonnet requesting that someone give him a pen so he can “write down a line of glorious tone” because his spirit is “not content so soon to be alone.” This author wrote that “the Poetry of earth is never dead” in a poem about two insects, “On the Grasshopper and the Cricket.” This author of “On Leaving Some Friends at an Early Hour” compared an object to “nature’s patient, sleepless Eremite” in a sonnet that titles a 2009 Jane Campion biopic about him. This author of “Bright Star” declared that he felt like he was “some watcher of the skies when a new planet swims into his ken” or like “stout Cortez when with eagle eyes he star’d at the Pacific” upon reading a particularly good translation. For 10 points, name this poet of “On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer.”
John Keats &lt;British Literature&gt; Bonuses
7

159300-)
A poem titled for this place states “I hail the superhuman” and calls this place “death-in-life and life-in-death” and is set at night when some “drunken soldiery are abed.” The speaker of another poem titled for this place promises “Once out of nature I shall never take my bodily form from any natural thing,” imagining that instead he might “set upon a golden bough” and sing “of what is past, or passing, or to come.” The speaker of that poem titled for this place laments how his heart is “fastened to a dying animal” and “knows not what it is.” A poem titled for this place uses the image of “a tattered coat upon a stick” after saying that “an aged man is but a paltry thing.” That poem titled for this place begins “That is no country for old men.” For 10 points, W. B. Yeats (“yates”) wrote a poem titled “Sailing to” what ancient city?
Byzantium [accept “Sailing to Byzantium”] &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159328-)
In one play, a character notes “intemperate agues (“AY-gyooz”) make physicians cruel” after claiming that this concept “ne’er will slack till it hath spent his fuel.” In a play named for this concept, a character whose name references this concept disguises himself as Piato to trick Lussurioso, the Duke’s heir. Paraphrasing The True Tragedy of Richard III, a character claims that “the croaking raven doth bellow for” this concept. This concept titles a play that was once attributed to Cyril Tourneur (“turner”) but now attributed to Thomas Middleton. The ghost of Don Andrea and a personification of this concept make up the chorus of a play about the mad Hieronimo. Tamora disguises herself as the spirit of this concept to trick Titus Andronicus after he feigns madness. For 10 points, a form of Jacobean and Elizabethan tragedy named after what concept is exemplified by plays like The Duchess of Malfi and Hamlet?
revenge [accept The Revenger’s Tragedy; do not accept or prompt on similar answers, such as “vengeance”] &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159344-)
A poem named after this thing thanks the Lord for creating “Brother Fire” and “Sister Water.” The speaker of another poem is driven back “to where [this thing] is silent” by the appearance of a wolf. According to the “rule of the mountain” explained by Sordello, this thing determines when it is possible for souls to climb upward. One of the very first works of literature in Italian is a “canticle” about this thing by St. Francis of Assisi. Dante and Beatrice meet the souls of wise men in the form of revolving bright lights inside this object in the Paradiso. The description of the position of this object in the Purgatorio demonstrates medieval knowledge of the spherical shape of the Earth. For 10 points, the Divine Comedy ends by describing “the Love that moves” what celestial object “and the other stars”?
the Sun [or il sole; accept sunset or sunlight] &lt;European Literature&gt;
7

159353-)
This English-language author sued the Malian writer Yambo Ouologuem (“wo-lo-GHEM”) for plagiarizing passages from one of his books in the novel Bound to Violence. At the end of the novel in which he appears, a character created by this author laments that he has become engagé (“on-gah-ZHAY”), rather than remaining neutral. In this author’s first novel, Francis Andrews agrees to take the blame for a murder after betraying a group of smugglers via court testimony. Bombs are hidden in bicycle pumps in another novel by this author of The Man Within; in that novel, Phuong is forced to choose between journalist Thomas Fowler and CIA agent Alden Pyle. In a novel by this author of The Quiet American, a socialist lieutenant chases a “whiskey priest” across Mexico. For 10 points, name this author of The Power and the Glory.
Graham Greene [or Henry Graham Greene] &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159393-)
This author described his friend Constantine Cavafy as “a Greek gentleman in a straw hat, standing absolutely motionless at a slight angle to the universe.” The protagonist of a novel by this author yells “Come!” in the middle of the night, thinking that nobody will hear him, leading a gamekeeper to climb into his bedroom with a ladder. In that novel by this author, the protagonist learns about the ancient Greeks from Clive Durham and has a relationship with Alec Scudder. This author wrote a novel in which Leonard Bast is attacked by Charles Wilcox and dies, after which Margaret Schlegel and Henry Wilcox move into the title estate. In another novel by this author, Adela Quested falsely accuses Dr. Aziz of sexual assault when they travel into the Marabar Caves. For 10 points, name this author of Maurice (“Morris”), Howards End, and A Passage to India.
E. M. Forster [or Edward Morgan Forster] &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159404-)
A narrative poem by this author ends with a woman perceiving that a man’s soul is made of “jasper first,” then sapphire, chalcedony (“cal-SED-uh-nee”), and finally amethyst. A poem by this author describes how a girl named Alice dies and is given a grave “shapen like a snowball.” The speaker describes “bartering curl for curl” in a poem by this author beginning “The soul’s Rialto has its merchandise.” The speaker reminisces about “the name I used to run at, when a child” in a poem by this author that tells the addressee to “call me by my pet-name!” This author of “The Cry of the Children” and Aurora Leigh wrote about “the depth and breadth and height my soul can reach” in a poem that asks “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways.” For 10 points, name this poet who wrote about her love for her husband Robert in Sonnets from the Portuguese.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [prompt on Browning] &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159412-)
Cyril Connolly edited a literary journal of this name that published an issue containing the entirety of Evelyn Waugh’s (“EEV-lin WAW’s”) The Loved One. At the end of Their Eyes Were Watching God, Janie pulls this thing in “like a great fish net,” echoing the mention of this thing in the novel’s opening paragraph. The frame narrative of a novel named after this thing involves a neurologist telling the story to a novelist named Rutherford. That novel named after this thing is about Hugh Conway, who meets a Manchu woman named Lo-Tsen at a lamasery in the Kuen-Lun Mountains whose inhabitants live for an extremely long time. This thing titles a 1933 novel set in the utopian valley of Shangri-La. For 10 points, a James Hilton novel is named for a “lost” version of what thing, which is the line where the sky and the Earth seem to meet?
the horizon [accept Lost Horizon] &lt;Other Literature&gt;
7

159424-)
One of this author’s characters is called “astonishingly like Uncle Joe Stalin” in a book which says that this author’s magnum opus is “not good in spite of but especially because of its moral confusions.” Christopher Ricks wrote a book about this author’s “grand style.” A book-length “preface” to one of this author’s works was written by C. S. Lewis. A reader-response analysis of this author’s magnum opus has a title which plays on C. S. Lewis’s Surprised by Joy; that book by Stanley Fish is called Surprised by Sin. A William Empson book investigates whether this author succeeded in “justifying the ways of God to man.” For 10 points, name this author who William Blake claimed was “of the Devil’s party without knowing it” in reference to his Paradise Lost.
John Milton &lt;British Literature&gt; Bonuses
7

159433-)
A collection named for this type of person includes a poem whose speaker is a nun who “tends the gardens” and “prays for the immortal soul of rock ’n’ roll,” entitled “Elvis’s Twin Sister.” One of these people complains about being forced to live under an oak tree in an “earthen cave” in a “lament” found in the Exeter Book. In a play named after this type of person, Mrs. Squeamish and Sir Jasper Fidget are oblivious to the double entendres in Horner’s description of his china collection. After tearing several pages out of a book, one of these people is struck by Jankyn. That one of these people tells the story of a knight who, at the orders of Queen Guinevere, strikes a deal with an old woman to learn what it is that women desire most. For 10 points, one of the Canterbury Tales is told by what type of person from Bath?
wife [or wives; accept The World’s Wife or “The Wife’s Lament” or The Country Wife or “The Wife of Bath’s Tale”] &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159452-)
In an essay that centers on a narrator’s descriptions of James Steerforth’s arm, Martha Nussbaum analyzed this concept in relation to the “moral point of view.” Irving Singer wrote a three-volume work titled for “the nature of” this concept. This concept is likened to a man who “becomes winged” and “looks upward like a bird” when experiencing the fourth form of divine madness described by Socrates in the Phaedrus. In a different work, one speaker describes being taught about how a person can ascend from a “vulgar” form of this concept to a “divine” one via its namesake “ladder” by Diotima. In that work, one speaker satirically claims that this concept is a result of Zeus’s decision to chop in half a former race of humans with two faces and eight limbs. Plato’s Symposium discusses, for 10 points, what concept divided by Greek philosophers into forms such as philia, agape (“ah-GAH-pay”), and eros?
love [accept the ladder of love, divine love, or vulgar love; accept eros until read] &lt;Philosophy&gt;
7

159457-)
In a poem, this character sleeps with the Carle of Carlisle’s wife and then his daughter out of politeness. In a novel, this character has a vision in which he’s accosted by hags who shame him for his failure to kill Querig. This character appears as an elderly man who is killed by Wistan in Kazuo Ishiguro’s The Buried Giant. A poem that contains a tangent about the symbolism of the pentangle on this character’s shield describes how this man refuses a gold ring from a woman, but eventually agrees to take her silk girdle. In a poem that makes use of the “bob and wheel” form, this character has his purity tested by Lady Bertilak after he beheads a character who promptly picks up his head and promises to return in a year and a day. For 10 points, name this Arthurian character who encounters the Green Knight in a Middle English poem.
Sir Gawain &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159474-)
The speaker of this poem hears “four voices of four hamlets round” in the first of this poem’s three sections set on Christmas. The last section of this poem takes place “thrice three years” after its start and depicts the wedding of its author’s sister. This poem, which names a type of ABBA (“A-B-B-A”) stanza in iambic tetrameter, starts with an invocation to the “strong son of God, immortal love.” One of this poem’s cantos, which depicts something that “with ravine, shrieked against God’s creed,” is often taken as a meditation on evolution. This poem is the source of the phrases “nature, red in tooth and claw” and “’Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.” For 10 points, name this poem by Alfred, Lord Tennyson written after the death of Arthur Henry Hallam.
“In Memoriam A.H.H.” &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159505-)
An author with this surname wrote a play in which the mystery writer Andrew Wyke suggests an elaborate plan involving Milo burgling some jewels, entitled Sleuth. At the climax of a play by an author with this surname, a character causes another character to break down by saying “The Lord thy God is a jealous god” and repeating “He sees you!” An Alexander Pushkin play inspired that author with this surname to write a play in which a man unsuccessfully tries to kill himself with a razor, confessing that he poisoned the title character. In a play by an author with this surname, a teenager uses a steel spike to blind Nugget and its companions. A playwright with this surname wrote about Dr. Martin Dysart, a child psychiatrist who investigates Alan Strang’s religious obsession with horses. For 10 points, identify this surname of Peter, the playwright behind Amadeus and Equus.
Shaffer [accept Anthony Shaffer or Peter Shaffer] &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159510-)
One of this playwright’s characters claims to have lived for two years off of his misfortunes, such as losing the use of his limbs and becoming a “widow with six helpless children.” In a play by this author, a woman described as an “old weather-beaten she-dragon” serves as the guardian of an heiress who loves “Ensign Beverly,” who is actually another man in disguise. The second act of a play by this author features many comments from Mr. Sneer and Mr. Dangle, who are watching a rehearsal of the tragedy The Spanish Armada. In a play by this author, Charles Surface throws down the screen covering Lady Teazle, whom her husband and Charles had believed to be a French milliner. This author of The Critic wrote a play about Jack Absolute’s pursuit of Lydia Languish, the niece of Mrs. Malaprop. For 10 points, name this author of The School for Scandal and The Rivals.
Richard Brinsley Sheridan &lt;British Literature&gt;
7

159551-)
This author’s instruction that an actress wear a green carnation provides the title for a Robert Hichens roman à clef (“ro-MAWN ah CLAY”) about this author. A character in a play by this author asserts that “In this world there are only two tragedies: One is not getting what one wants, and the other is getting it.” That same scene in a play by this author includes the definition of a (*) cynic as a “man who knows the price of everything and the value of nothing” provided by Lord Darlington. Another play by this man begins with a visit from Lady Bracknell to a cucumber sandwich-loving man who avoids social engagements by Bunburying. For 10 points, name this author of Lady Windermere’s Fan and The Importance of Being Earnest.
Oscar Wilde &lt;JG, Drama&gt;
6

159579-)
This poet quoted Julian of Norwich to claim that “all shall be well, and all manner of things shall be well” towards the end of one collection. He reversed a line that Mary, Queen of Scots is said to have embroidered before her death to begin a poem with the line “my beginning is my end.” This poet wrote a collection that begins with the line “Time present and time past / are both perhaps present in time future.” This poet of (*) “East Coker” and “Burnt Norton” compared the image of a “patient etherized upon a table” to “the evening spread out across the sky” in a poem whose title character “has measured out his life with coffee spoons” and asks “Do I dare / disturb the universe?” For 10 points, name this poet of the Four Quartets and “The Lovesong of J. Alfred Prufrock.”
Thomas Stearns Eliot &lt;RR, Poetry&gt;
6

159582-)
A short story by this author ends with a conversation about a man who was found “wide-awake and laughing-like to himself” because of a mental decline brought about by the breaking of a chalice. One of this author’s characters is jokingly called a “West Briton” because he writes for the Daily Express. Eliza and Nannie are the title characters of a story by this author whose narrator learns about the death of (*) Father Flynn. The snow is described as “faintly falling” on the title people at the end of a story by this author in which Bartell D’Arcy’s performance of “The Lass of Aughrim” reminds Gretta of her youthful romance with Michael Furey, to the dismay of Gretta’s husband Gabriel Conroy. For 10 points, name this author of Dubliners.
James (Augustine Aloysius) Joyce &lt;WN, Short Fiction&gt;
6

159600-)
Ian Watt analyzed this author’s claim that a novel is a “comic epic in prose” in The Rise of the Novel. This author wrote a chapter “containing five pages of paper” in which he chides authors of histories that should be read with “a tankard of good ale.” This author asserted that an author should, like a host of a feast, give a menu before beginning. The title character of a novel by this author worries that he has impregnated the daughter of the gamekeeper (*) Black George, Molly Seagrim, before competing for the love of another women with Blifil. The title character of a novel by this author is raised by Squire Allworthy and goes on to marry Sophia Western. For 10 points, name this author of Joseph Andrews and Tom Jones.
Henry Fielding &lt;JG, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159612-)
The narrator of a story by this author frequently describes “dark heads together” and worries about the “uncanny sight of a double [person] busy talking in whispers with his other self.” This author wrote a story whose title character climbs aboard a ship before revealing that he murdered a man aboard the Sephora. This author wrote that “All Europe contributed to the making of” a character who produced a report on the (*) “Suppression of Savage Customs.” Leggatt is the title character of this author’s story “The Secret Sharer.” The frame story of a novel by this author takes place on the Nellie; in that novel, “the horror! The horror!” are the last words of Kurtz. For 10 points, name this Polish-British author of Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad &lt;JG, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159634-)
In a novel based on this novel, three pennies and some dresses are stolen from the protagonist by her best friend Tia. A character who originally appeared in this novel is called “béké and not béké” by the obeah-practicing Christophine, and that character from this novel titles Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar’s landmark feminist study of Victorian literature. One character in this novel is re-imagined as Antoinette Cosway in (*) an anti-colonial response to this novel. The first sentence of this novel’s last chapter states “Reader, I married him,” referring to a man whose insane first wife Bertha Mason burned down Thornfield Hall. Jean Rhys’s Wide Sargasso Sea is based on this novel. For 10 points, name this novel where the title character marries Mr. Rochester, written by Charlotte Brontë.
Jane Eyre &lt;RR, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159654-)
In the introduction to this poem, the author writes that it is set in a land with “ten miles of fertile ground” that were “inclosed within a wall.” In a psychoanalytic reading of this poem, Robert Graves suggests that the author wrote this poem as a “serene refuge” to separate himself from a “woman wailing for her demon-lover.” This poem’s speaker asks “Could I revive within me / Her symphony and song?” after having a vision of an (*) “Abyssinian maid” and the dulcimer that “she played.” This poem, which describes a “sunless sea” and measureless “caverns,” is incomplete due to the “Person from Porlock.” It begins with the title character in a “stately pleasure-dome” in Xanadu. For 10 points, name this poem titled for an Emperor of China by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
Kubla Khan &lt;IJ, Poetry&gt;
6

159666-)
A stalkerish contemporary fan of this novelist, Alexander Main, collected aphorisms from this author’s works in a book called Wise, Witty, and Tender Sayings. Main’s admiration of this writer is recounted in a Rebecca Mead book inspired by one of this author’s novels, titled My Life in [that novel]. Virginia Woolf called a book by this author “one of the few English novels written for (*) grown-up people.” In that novel, the idea that doctors shouldn’t dispense medicines themselves earns Tertius Lydgate disapproval in the title town in the Midlands. In that novel by this author, the desire to help with research for the project The Key to All Mythologies inspires Dorothea Brooke to marry the elderly Edward Casaubon. For 10 points, name this author of Middlemarch.
George Eliot [or Mary Ann Evans] &lt;WN, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159674-)
A character with this first name fondles some “satin shoes” with soles yellowed with wax from a dance floor at a ball whose memory “became an occupation.” Love for a character with this first name is the subject of Mario Vargas Llosa’s The Perpetual Orgy. A lifelong hypochondriac is cared for at (*) Hartfield by his daughter, who has this name. An inept attempt to persuade Harriet Smith to turn down Mr. Martin leads George Knightley to chide a character with this name. Another character with this name has sex in a moving carriage as part of an affair with Léon. For 10 points, give this name shared by the title characters of a novel by Jane Austen and Flaubert’s Madame Bovary.
Emma [accept Emma Woodhouse or Emma Bovary] &lt;JG, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159676-)
A character created by this playwright gives a monologue in which she asks the Virgin Mary “Where were you when me darlin’ son was riddled by bullets?” This author’s six-volume autobiography was published under the title Mirror in My House. One of this playwright’s characters looks up at the sky and asks himself “What is the moon? What is the stars?” That character declares the world to be “in a terrible state o’ (*) chassis” at the end of the play. A one-armed man named Johnny feels guilty for his betrayal of Robbie Tancred, which leads to Robbie’s death, in a play by this man in which Joxer Daly hangs out at the pub with Captain Jack Boyle. For 10 points, name this Irish author of Juno and the Paycock.
Sean O’Casey [or John Casey] &lt;WN, Drama&gt;
6

159707-)
Gen Watanabe has this profession in Ann Patchett’s Bel Canto. The Sherlock Holmes story that introduces Mycroft Holmes is titled after the adventure of a Greek member of this profession. Richard Pevear and Larissa Volokhonsky are a husband-and-wife duo in this profession. This is the public profession of Anita Raja, who is suspected of being (*) Elena Ferrante. The work of a British member of this profession causes the narrator of a poem to feel like “some watcher of the skies / when a new planet swims into his ken.” Emily Wilson became the first woman to accomplish a certain task in this profession in 2017, and her work received attention for calling Odysseus a “complicated man.” For 10 points, name this profession that John Keats wrote about in “On First Looking into Chapman’s Homer.”
translators [or interpreters; or translation; or interpretation; accept “Adventure of the Greek Interpreter”; prompt on writers or writing or authors] &lt;RR, Misc Literature&gt;
6

159716-)
Part Two of this novel ends with Cicero’s story about how the poet Simonides invented the art of memory when he was able to identify all of the victims of the collapse of a banqueting hall. A character in this novel has a dream in which his dead brother Arthur appears to him bathed in white light, which he interprets as a bad omen. This novel opens with the protagonist being beaten up by his abusive father (*) Walter. This novel, whose fictionalized versions of historical personages include Rafe Sadler and Stephen Gardiner, is named for the seat of the Seymour family. This is the first novel in a trilogy that also includes Bring Up the Bodies and the as-yet-unpublished The Mirror and the Light. For 10 points, name this novel about Thomas Cromwell by Hilary Mantel.
Wolf Hall &lt;WN, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159724-)
In one poem, this poet paralleled Euclid’s rest and Archimedes’ pause with the intentions of the Swedes and French. In another poem, this poet answered the question “What supports me?” by describing a “noble task, / Of which all Europe talks from side to side.” Both of those poems by this poet were addressed to Cyriack Skinner. In another poem, this poet offers a “true account” to avoid being chided after lamenting the uselessness of “that one Talent which is (*) death to hide.” A poetic query by this man is answered by patience, which states that while “Thousands at his bidding speed,” “They also serve who only stand and wait.” The sonnet “When I consider how my light is spent” is by, for 10 points, what poet of Paradise Lost?
John Milton &lt;JG, Poetry&gt;
6

159754-)
An essay by this writer claims that book-reviewers are “pouring his immortal spirit, down the drain, half a pint at a time.” He claimed that Jonathan Swift had an “exaggerated horror of human dung” to conclude that Swift was not a “champion of human intelligence” in an essay on Gulliver’s Travels titled “Politics Versus Literature.” Yet a third essay by this writer criticizes “verbal false limbs” and “dying metaphors” in (*) modern writing, and translates a passage from the Book of Ecclesiastes into modern English to criticize meaningless political writing. This author wrote a novel whose characters include the possibly-fictitious Emmanuel Goldstein, who is the subject of a ritual called “Two Minutes Hate.” For 10 points, name this author of the essay “Politics and the English Language” who depicted Winston Smith’s torture by the Ministry of Love in his novel 1984.
George Orwell [or Eric Arthur Blair] &lt;IJ, Misc Literature&gt;
6

159758-)
To produce his widely-panned translation of this work, William Morris made heavy use of Alfred John Wyatt’s translation, since he didn’t actually understand the language in which this work was written. Frederick Klaeber’s edition of this work pairs it with a fragment that Klaeber translated as “The Fight at Finnsburg.” Gale Owen-Crocker identified a fourth (*) funeral in addition to the three funerals that are traditionally said to structure this poem. This poem ends by describing the barrow built in memory of its hero, who dies with Wiglaf at his side after being mortally wounded by a dragon. This poem’s title character saves the inhabitants of the hall Heorot from a monster. For 10 points, name this Anglo-Saxon epic poem whose hero slays Grendel.
Beowulf &lt;WN, Long Fiction&gt;
6

159789-)
This novel’s opening paragraph notes that “we’ve got to live, no matter how many skies have fallen” after stating that “ours is essentially a tragic age, so we refuse to take it tragically.” This novel emphasizes the class divide between its main setting and the nearby town of Tevershall. Philip Larkin’s poem “Annus Mirabilis” mentions this novel just before mentioning “the Beatles’ first LP.” This novel’s protagonist visits (*) Venice with her sister Hilda, allowing her to claim that she had a love affair there. In this novel, Clifford’s paralysis from the waist down contributes to Constance’s decision to have an affair with Oliver Mellors. For 10 points, an obscenity trial against Penguin Books resulted from the publication of what D. H. Lawrence novel?
Lady Chatterley’s Lover &lt;WN, Long Fiction&gt; Bonuses
6

159798-)
In a poem in this collection, the speaker describes the “long nights” during which he endured “star-defeated sighs,” and urges the addressee to “look not in my eyes.” It’s not by William Blake, but in another of this book’s poems, the speaker sees Dick and Ned in the churchyard and jail, when he came home to Ludlow “in the moonlight pale.” This work contains a poem that asserts “And silence sounds no worse than cheers / After earth has stopped the ears,” and which is addressed to a (*) boy who is “chaired through the marketplace.” The words “tis true, tis true” end a poem in this book set when the speaker was “one and twenty.” The speaker remarks “early though the laurel grows / it withers quicker than the rose” in a poem from this book addressed to “an athlete dying young.” For 10 points, name this poetry collection by A. E. Housman.
A Shropshire Lad &lt;IJ, Poetry&gt;
6

159810-)
While returning to this city, a character is waylaid by a group of outlaws, who after hearing his story determine him to be “a king for our wild faction!” In this city, a letter delivered by the maid Lucetta is carelessly torn apart, then reassembled and kissed, by Julia. The servants Speed and Launce, the latter of whom owns the dog Crab, are employed by a pair of characters from this city who fall out when one suddenly falls in love with the other’s love interest, the Milanese woman (*) Silvia. Another play opens with Abraham and Balthasar quarreling with Sampson and Gregory in this city, whose Prince Escalus attempts to stop the feud between the Montagues and Capulets. For 10 points, name this primary setting of Romeo and Juliet, an Italian city that also titles a Shakespeare play about Proteus and Valentine, its namesake “two gentlemen.”
Verona [accept The Two Gentlemen of Verona] &lt;RC, Drama&gt;
6

159824-)
In one story, this man wins a shooting contest against a mercenary, kills the mercenary, and then blows the mercenary’s horn to fake his own death. This figure’s love interest was originally conceived as a shepherdess character in May Day festivities. This man’s very tall sidekick ironically has the epithet (*) “Little” to his name, while another of this man’s companions is Friar Tuck. Later stories made this leader of the Merry Men a rough contemporary of Richard the Lionheart who lives with his followers in the Sherwood Forest. For 10 points, name this archenemy of the Sheriff of Nottingham, a legendary English outlaw and master archer.
Robin Hood &lt;Suh&gt;
4

159836-)
A Robert Herrick poem compares these objects to “the pearls of morning’s dew, / Ne’er to be found again.” In one poem, the narrator recalls these objects while on his couch “in vacant or in pensive mood.” In that poem, these objects are as “Continuous as the stars that shine / And twinkle on the milky way.” Located “along the margin of a bay,” these objects (*) “flash upon that inward eye / Which is the bliss of solitude.” “Ten thousand” of these objects are seen “fluttering and dancing in the breeze” while the narrator “wandered lonely as a cloud.” For 10 points, name these golden flowers that the narrator of a William Wordsworth poem saw.
daffodils (prompt on flowers until mention) &lt;Suh&gt;
4

159846-)
A character with this profession tells Louise after a suicide that no one can “know what goes on in a single human heart,” and another is offered a gun and a knife by a dying American he had traveled five hours to see. That character with this profession fathered Brigida with Maria and is given brandy by a (*) lieutenant before his execution. Major Scobie discusses his affair with a character of this profession in The Heart of the Matter, and another is betrayed by a “mestizo” in Mexico, where his profession is outlawed. For 10 points, describe this profession of the “whiskey” protagonist of Graham Greene’s The Power and the Glory, one of his Catholic novels.
Catholic priests (accept Father Rank or the whiskey priest) &lt;Yue&gt;
4

159879-)
In a story by this author, the main character constantly checks his pedometer and encounters two gates made of ivory and horns. This author of “The Other Side of the Hedge” created a character named Maurice who seeks the help of Dr. Lasker Jones to cure his homosexuality. In a novel by this author, a character rudely interrupts a (*) tennis match to read from a novel and is later rejected by Lucy Honeychurch. This man wrote a novel in which Dr. Aziz is falsely accused of raping Adela Quested while on a visit to the Marabar Caves. For 10 points, name this English author of A Room with a View and A Passage to India.
Edward Morgan Forster &lt;Suh&gt;
4

159882-)
A character in this novel travels to a mansion near Trantridge in order to “claim kin” with a rich widow and later kills a flock of wounded pheasants out of mercy. A man in this novel who briefly goes to Brazil on a failed farming venture rejects the advances of the main character’s co-workers at the (*) Talbothays dairy factory. Mrs. Brooks notices a bloodstain caused by the death of a man who earlier got lost in a foggy forest and raped the main character. At the end of this work, Liza-Lu and Angel Clare walk away after seeing the raising of a black flag implying the main character’s death. For 10 points, name this novel by Thomas Hardy.
Tess of the d’Urbervilles: A Pure Woman Faithfully Presented &lt;Suh&gt; Bonuses
4

159896-)
In this poem, the speaker tells the addressee that truth will be “twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools,” and refers to “Triumph” and “Disaster” as “two imposters.” That is said just after the speaker encourages the addressee to “dream” without making (*) “dreams your master” and “think” without making “thoughts your aim.” This poem takes the unconventional form of a parent’s advice to a child, and the first three sentences of each stanza begin with the title word. For 10 points, name this poem, which states that, when many criteria are met, “you’ll be a Man, my son,” a poem by Rudyard Kipling.
“If —” &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

159923-)
An essay notes that this character lacks “tiger spirit” and that his “feelings are caught chiefly by contagion.” This character “has no spur / To prick the sides of my intent” and later says he has “almost forgot the taste of fears” after hearing an offstage cry of women. This character is told to “screw [his] courage to the sticking-place” and later exclaims (*) “Out, out, brief candle!” in a monologue beginning, “tomorrow, and tomorrow, and tomorrow.” This character is told he will be killed by someone not “of woman born” by three witches after he murders King Duncan. For 10 points each, name this title King of Scotland of a Shakespeare tragedy.
Macbeth (do NOT accept “Lady Macbeth”) &lt;Yue&gt;
4

159928-)
A character in this work claims “there is no applause” after death before stabbing another character, who collapses and is promptly applauded. A character in this play bizarrely offers to lick another character's toe to test the wind. A character in this play parodies the Lord’s Prayer by saying (*) “give us this day our daily cue.” In this play, the protagonists and a group of Tragedians board a ship to England after their production of The Murder of Gonzago offends Claudius. This play begins with the title characters flipping a coin heads 92 consecutive times. For 10 points, name this Tom Stoppard play featuring two minor characters from Hamlet.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead &lt;R. Li&gt;
4

159985-)
In this city, a man “claims the right to be unhappy” and recites lines from The Tempest. A large woman sings “It was only a hopeless fancy” in this city, where in another novel a man visits his mother Linda at a Hospital for the Dying and calls Lenina Crowne a “strumpet.” Victory Gin is sold in one depiction of this city, where Mr. (*) Charrington’s antique shop and Chestnut Café are found. In one novel set “after Ford,” this city has a Hatchery and is home to Bernard Marx, and it features the Ministry of Love’s Room 101 in another. For 10 points, name this city home to Winston Smith in Nineteen Eighty-Four, the capital of what was formerly England.
London (prompt on Airstrip One, Oceania, or the World State... even though they are not cities) &lt;Yue&gt;
4

160002-)
In a poem, this author calls the title creatures “country comets” and says the nightingale studies all night by their side. In one work this poet describes being separated at opposite poles of the Earth from his love and declares, “My love is of a birth as rare / As ’tis for object strange and high.” This author of “The Definition of Love” and “The (*) Mower to the Glow-Worms” wrote a poem in which the speaker speaks of “quaint honor” turning to “dust” as his “vegetable love” in turn grows, and of waiting “Till the conversion of the Jews.” For 10 points, name this author who wrote of “Time’s wingèd chariot hurrying near” in “To His Coy Mistress.”
Andrew Marvell &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

160006-)
The protagonist of this novel witnesses the death of a worker alongside “a little fat man” in “pink pyjamas,” and a critic argued that this novel refuses to grant “human expression” to a group of people. This novel’s protagonist fantasizes about exploring blank spaces on maps as a child, and lies to “the (*) Intended” about a certain character’s last words. Chinua Achebe criticized this novel as being “bloody racist,” and its frame story occurs on the Nellie in the Thames. After Marlow finds the ivory trader Kurtz in this book, the dying Kurtz only utters the words, “The horror! The horror!” For 10 points, name this Joseph Conrad novel set in the Congo.
Heart of Darkness &lt;R. Li&gt;
4

160012-)
This author wrote a work often considered the origin of the phrase “all good things must come to an end.” That work by this non-Shakespearean author traces the story of two tragic lovers during the Trojan War and is called Troilus and Criseyde. This author walks through a glass temple accompanied by an eagle in The (*) House of Fame, and he wrote about Arcite and Palamon warring over Princess Emily in one story. In one of his works, the Tabard Inn houses a “sundry folk” including a reeve, a parson, a miller, a cook, and a knight as they travel to the shrine of Thomas Becket. For 10 points, name this author of The Canterbury Tales.
Geoffrey Chaucer &lt;Cohen&gt;
4

160048-)
This author described the title schoolteacher’s travels to Neutralia in Scott King’s Modern Europe. In one novel by this author, John Andrew dies falling off the horse Thunderclap, while in another, a character takes care of Kurt in a Tunisian monastery. In one of this author’s novels, the owner of Hetton Abbey is coerced by the expatriate Mr. Todd to read (*) Dickens. In another of this author’s novels, the protagonist’s alcoholic friend hauls around the teddy bear Aloysius during his days at Oxford; that character is Sebastian Flyte. For 10 points, name this author of A Handful of Dust and creator of Charles Ryder in his novel Brideshead Revisited.
Evelyn Waugh [“waw”] &lt;R. Li/Yue&gt;
4

160065-)
A “young sinner” in an A.E. Housman poem is sent to prison because of the color of this object. Sunlight is woven into this object in the T. S. Eliot poem “La Figlia Che Piange,” and Ezra Pound’s poem “The River-Merchant’s Wife: A Letter” opens with a description of this object being “straight.” The narrator examines a set of blue eyes after using this object to (*) strangle his lover in Robert Browning’s poem “Porphyria’s Lover.” A piece of this object is stolen by the Baron in a poem that ends with that object becoming a constellation. For 10 points, describe this sort of object cut from Belinda’s head in The Rape of the Lock.
hair (accept locks; prompt on head until mention) &lt;Cohen/Suh&gt;
4

160089-)
While this character is stranded in Lisbon, she “inspect[s] the royal stables” and takes a picture of Henry Fielding’s grave. The title garment of a short story embodies Mabel Waring’s insecurity about attending an event hosted by this character. In addition to appearing in The Voyage Out and “The New Dress,” this character quotes Cymbeline and is friends with (*) Hugh Whitbread in another novel. This character reminisces about kissing Sally Seton in a stream-of-consciousness novel depicting a day in her life as she prepares to host a party. For 10 points, name this British housewife who titles a Virginia Woolf novel.
Mrs. Dalloway (accept Clarissa Dalloway; prompt on just Dalloway) &lt;R. Li&gt;
4

160096-)
A character in this novel criticizes her suitor for his lackluster reading of William Cowper [“COO-per”]. A character in this novel gives a horse named Queen Mab to his love interest, but later rejects her by returning a lock of hair she had given him. A character in this novel who marries Sophia Grey is disowned for seducing (*) Eliza Williams. The main characters of this novel live with the Middletons after being evicted by Fanny. At the end of this novel, Edward Ferrars marries Elinor and Colonel Brandon marries Marianne, who was previously abandoned by John Willoughby. For 10 points, name the first novel by Jane Austen about the Dashwood sisters.
Sense and Sensibility &lt;Suh&gt;
4

160109-)
A man of this profession describes a plan for an opera about Lord Byron to his daughter. Timofey Pnin and Abe Ravelstein are characters with this profession, and another visits America’s most photographed barn. A man of this profession meets the “dog-man” Petrus, the neighbor of his daughter Lucy who is raped in Salem. (*) Disgrace’s David Lurie has this profession, as does a man who tells his mother about the “most absorbing experiment I ever tackled.” That character is approached by a “common flower girl” and is a friend of Colonel Pickering. For 10 points, give this profession of Henry Higgins, who teaches phonetics to Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion.
professor (generously accept educator; accept teacher until “teaches phonetics”; prompt on linguist or writer or historian and reasonable equivalents by asking “What’s the official job title of that person, not their area of expertise?”) &lt;Yue&gt;
4

160114-)
In a poem, this author imagines “cloudy symbols of a high romance” that the speaker “may never live to trace” with the “magic hand of chance.” This author of “When I Have Fears That I May Cease to Be” stated “a thing of beauty is a joy forever” in a poem that imagines the love of Cynthia for the title Greek shepherd. This author of (*) “Endymion” wrote a ballad which asks “what can ail thee” to a knight-at-arms. In a different poem, this writer of “La Belle Dame Sans Merci” addresses a “still unravish’d bride of quietness” and declares “beauty is truth, truth beauty.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
John Keats &lt;Gioia&gt;
4

160125-)
As Clarissa Vaughn arrives to take poet Richard Brown to one of these events in Michael Cunningham’s The Hours, Richard jumps from a window. During one of these events, a man is asked why the chicken crossed the road, and a game of blind man’s bluff occurs before that man attempts to rape Lulu. Laura Sheridan learns of a working class (*) neighbor’s death while preparing for one of these events. A Harold Pinter play is titled for one of these occasions with Goldberg, McCann, and Stanley, and Kate Mansfield wrote about a “Garden” instance of them. For 10 points, describe these celebratory events that Jay Gatsby hosts.
party (accept obvious equivalents; accept specific types of parties like birthday party, garden party, dinner party, etc.) &lt;Levine&gt;
4

160130-)
Umberto Eco’s essay titled for the “narrative structures” of this author identified 14 recurring pairs of opposing characters or values in this author’s works. In a novel by this author, the protagonist’s children warn Monsieur Bon-Bon of an impending chocolate shop burglary that is later thwarted by the title vehicle, (*) Chitty-Chitty-Bang-Bang. In a novel by this author, the protagonist is tasked with bankrupting “The Cipher” by playing baccarat at a French casino. A character created by this author appears in books such as Thunderball, For Your Eyes Only, and Casino Royale. For 10 points, name this British author who created James Bond.
Ian Fleming &lt;R. Li&gt;
4

160140-)
A sexually explicit example of this literary form describes “dirty farts...spluttering” out of Nora Barnacle’s backside. A work of this type by John Keats compliments Shakespeare’s ability to cope with uncertainty, which Keats dubbed “negative capability.” Sylvia Plath’s suicide is explored in a Ted Hughes collection named for this literary form. In a novella, Wormwood learns how to corrupt the Patient through works of this type. While on an Arctic expedition, Robert Walton writes some of these works in Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein. For 10 points, name these correspondences that are imitated by the narration of epistolary novels.
letters [or epistles; accept Birthday Letters or The Screwtape Letters]
6

160150-)
At the beginning of this novel, Mary Debenham mysteriously tells a colonel “Not now. When it’s all over.” In this book, Cyrus B. Hardman is frustrated that he can’t find a “small, dark man with a womanish voice.” A man in this novel learns that many women’s dressing gowns are “corn coloured” and “blue satin,” but fails to find a “scarlet kimono.” The protagonist of this novel discovers that Samuel Ratchett is actually Cassetti, who fled America after kidnapping Daisy Armstrong; later, the protagonist deduces that Cassetti was stabbed to death by his fellow passengers. For 10 points, Hercule Poirot investigates a crime aboard a train in what Agatha Christie novel?
Murder on the Orient Express
6

160173-)
This character blesses some snakes that “coiled” with “a flash of golden light.” While experiencing a vision of two spirit voices, this character learns that he “hath penance done / and penance more will do.” This character, who has a “long grey beard” and “glittering eye,” recounts how Death and Life-in-Death played a game of dice for his soul. In a poem narrated by the Wedding-Guest, this character brings himself bad luck by shooting an albatross, causing him to lament “water, water everywhere / and not a drop to drink.” For 10 points, name this title character of a Rime by Samuel Taylor Coleridge.
the Ancient Mariner [accept The Rime of the Ancient Mariner]
6

160186-)
In a play set during this holiday, Nora delivers a stillborn baby and her husband Jack Clitheroe is shot. A woman in a poem that takes place during this holiday spent “her nights in argument / until her voice grew shrill,” yet she remains in the same “casual comedy” as a “drunken, vainglorious lout.” The speaker of a poem that occurs during this holiday recounts passing people with “vivid faces” with whom he exchanges “polite meaningless words.” This day, the setting of The Plough and the Stars, names a poem which repeatedly states “a terrible beauty is born.” For 10 points, name this holiday which names a 1916 Irish rebellion immortalized by W.B. Yeats.
Easter [accept Easter Rising; or “Easter 1916”]
6

160218-)
At the end of one of this author’s novels, the title character watches a goose jump over the head of his lover Marmaduke Bonthrop Shelmerdine. In another novel by this author, the title character decides to “buy the flowers herself,” and is compared to a lily by her former lovers Peter Walsh and Sally Seton. This lover of Vita Sackville-West wrote a satirical “biography” of an Elizabethan genderfluid poet, Orlando. In her best-known novel, World War I veteran Septimus Smith jumps out a window as the title character, Clarissa, prepares to throw a party in London. For 10 points, name this author of Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf
6

160228-)
The plot of one of this author’s novels is compared to the allegations of the Casement Report in an Adam Hochschild book. Tayeb Salih’s Season of Migration to the North is often interpreted as a rebuttal to this author. In Dreams from My Father, Barack Obama says that this author’s most famous novel is “not about black people” but this man’s perspective. This author is called a “thoroughgoing racist” in an essay that claims his depiction of Africa “is to Europe as the picture is to Dorian Gray.” Chinua Achebe’s “An Image of Africa” attacks this author’s use of racist tropes in a novel that ends with Kurtz’s death. For 10 points, name this author of Heart of Darkness.
Joseph Conrad [or Jozef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski]
6

160233-)
Samuel Butler argued that this book was written by a Sicilian woman. Emily Wilson’s 2018 translation of this book emphasizes its protagonist’s role as a “complicated man” by describing him as a “wily lord of lies.” Poems from the perspective of twelve hanged maids are interspersed throughout Margaret Atwood’s modern interpretation of this book. The last chapter of a novel inspired by this book is a soliloquy in which a woman exclaims “yes I said yes I will Yes;” that woman is Molly Bloom and that chapter is entitled “Penelope.” James Joyce’s Ulysses is a retelling of, for 10 points, what Homeric epic?.
the Odyssey
6

160258-)
One poem in this collection asks the reader to “choose” between “a shade, in which to sing” and “a grave, on which to rest from singing.” Another poem from this collection tells the reader to “gather the north flowers to complete the south.” A “mystic shape” holds the speaker of one poem in this collection before revealing itself to be “not Death, but Love;” the speaker of that poem from this collection reflects how “Theocritus had sung / of the sweet years.” The writer of this collection entreats the reader to “call me by my pet name” and pledges to “count the ways” she “loves thee.” For 10 points, name this poetry collection by Elizabeth Barrett Browning.
Sonnets from the Portuguese
6

160268-)
One of these creatures lives in a “cottage cheese cottage” in the Marmalade Forest, where he befriends an Albanian boy and learns not to be racist. King John the Presbyter sits on a throne made out of these creatures’ bones in Tad Williams’ Memory, Sorrow and Thorn trilogy. In another series, three of these creatures are kidnapped by Pyat Pree and imprisoned in the House of the Undying. Fighting alongside a Dothraki horde, one of these creatures decimates the combined Tarly and Lannister armies at the Battle of the Goldroad. For 10 points, name these flying creatures that are ridden by Daenerys Targaryen in Game of Thrones.
dragons [the first clue refers to “Albi the Racist Dragon” by Flight of the Conchords]
6

160279-)
A.C. Bradley’s assertion that this character has a dead son was mocked by L.C. Knights in an essay titled for this character. One of this character’s monologues is the source of the expression “milk of human kindness.” This character urges a man to “screw [his] courage to the sticking place,” and admits that she would have “dash’d the brains out” of an infant in order to keep a promise. While sleepwalking, this character tries to wash her hands and mutters “out, damned spot!” She encourages the Thane of Cawdor to murder and overthrow King Duncan. For 10 points, name this woman who becomes Queen of Scotland in a William Shakespeare play.
Lady Macbeth [accept Macbeth until the end of the first sentence, do not accept or prompt afterward]
6

160292-)
The speaker of a poem remembers these objects when “in a vacant or pensive mood” while enjoying the “bliss of solitude” on a couch. These objects “out-did the sparkling waves in glee” in the presence of a man to whom they provide “jocund company.” These objects, which are as “continuous as the stars that shine and twinkle on the Milky Way,” toss “their heads in a sprightly dance.” The speaker sees these objects “fluttering and dancing in the breeze” in a poem by the author of The Prelude. For 10 points, name these yellow flowers that serve as the primary subject of William Wordsworth’s “I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud.”
daffodils [prompt on flowers until mention]
6

160308-)
A character with this profession witnesses a blackface performance at a party at Chuffnell Hall. A different character with this profession overhears Lord Halifax and Herr Ribbentrop complimenting some silver. That character with this profession is employed by Mr. Faraday, who enjoys engaging in “banter.” A character with this profession is told Carry On and Right Ho in the titles of novels about his adventures with Bertie Wooster. Stevens works in this profession at Darling Hall in Kazuo Ishiguro’s The Remains of the Day. For 10 points, name this type of household servant exemplified by P.G. Wodehouse’s Jeeves.
butlers [prompt on manservants]
6

160339-)
This character is called one of the “hapless, annoying, dumb-bunny girls” by the narrator of a Margaret Atwood story titled for this character. The speaker of a poem chooses “never to stoop” even though this character gives him “much the same smile” she gives anyone else. According to the speaker of that poem, this character’s “looks went everywhere” when she received a “bough of cherries” or a “white mule” from an “officious fool.” The giver of a “nine-hundred-years-old name” claims that this woman’s heart is “too soon made glad.” This woman was married to a nobleman from Ferrara who had her painted by Fra Pandolf. For 10 points, name this title character of a Robert Browning poem.
the duchess [accept the duchess of Ferrara, or “My Last Duchess”]
6

160353-)
In this novel, a woman observes that happiness is “but the occasional episode in a general drama of pain” after she learns that the protagonist asked to be buried in an unconsecrated grave. After Joshua Jopp leaks his love letters, the title character of this novel is subjected to a skimmington ride with his lover Lucetta Le Sueur. When the title character goes bankrupt, he is forced to sell his grain business to his former accountant Donald Farfrae. The title character swears off alcohol after drunkenly selling his wife and child to a sailor for five guineas. For 10 points, Michael Henchard appears in what Thomas Hardy novel about a disgraced town official?
The Mayor of Casterbridge
6

160371-)
The title character of this English-language play asks why some years have more eclipses than others, only to be told that he is “damned.” This play, which exists in “A” and “B” versions, includes a scene in which the phrase “homo, fuge” [“HO-mo FOO-gay”] appears on a man’s arm as he attempts to sign a contract. The title character of this play travels through time to play a prank on Pope Adrian and to visit Helen of Troy, of whom he asks “was this the face that launch’d a thousand ships?” Unlike Goethe’s adaptation of the same legend, this play ends with the title scholar being dragged to hell. For 10 points, name this Christopher Marlowe play about a man who sells his soul to Mephistopheles.
The Tragical History of the Life and Death of Doctor Faustus [do not accept or prompt on Faust]
6

160401-)
The first sentence of this novel describes a woman whose beauty “seems to be thrown into relief by poor dress.” A landlord in this novel asks Mary Garth to destroy his will in order to deprive Joshua Rigg of his inheritance. One of this novel’s characters spends his honeymoon studying books in the Vatican library. That character in this novel is treated by Rosamond Vincy’s husband, Tertius Lydgate, and dies without finishing his book The Key to All Mythologies. In this novel, Edward Casaubon leaves a will stipulating that Will Ladislaw cannot marry Dorothea Brooke. For 10 points, name this “study of provincial life” by George Eliot.
Middlemarch: A Study of Provincial Life
6

160425-)
Edward Bulwer-Lytton criticized a scene in which this character reconnects with his widowed and remarried childhood crush. Jack Maggs searches for a re-imagined version of this character in a Peter Carey novel. In that novel, Maggs represents this character’s benefactor, who became rich after working as a sheep farmer in Australia, the convict Abel Magwitch. This character’s love Estella is raised in Satis House, which is filled with stopped clocks to commemorate the failed wedding of Miss Havisham. For 10 points, name this orphaned protagonist of Charles Dickens’ Great Expectations.
Philip “Pip” Pirrip [accept any underlined part]
6

160438-)
In a novel by this author, Walter Fane dies in a cholera epidemic, leaving his wife Kitty to return to Hong Kong alone. A recurring character created by this author encounters the “hairless Mexican” while working for the mysterious R. as part of the British secret service; that character, William Ashenden, assists Alroy Kear with a biography of Edward Driffield in a different novel. The Painted Veil is a novel by this author, who also wrote about a character who paints his masterpiece on the walls of a hut in a Tahitian leper colony. This author of Cakes and Ale, who fictionalized Paul Gauguin as Charles Strickland, wrote a novel in which the protagonist rejects the syphilitic waitress-turned-prostitute Mildred Rogers. At the end of that novel by this author, Sally Athelny marries the club-footed Philip Carey. For 10 points, name this British author of The Moon and Sixpence and Of Human Bondage.
W. Somerset Maugham (“mawm”) &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Tong&gt;
7

160466-)
A character in this play repeats the line “Because I believe that the world…” three times in a “vacant,” “desperate,” and then “lost” manner. The questions “why did you kill your wife?” and “why did you betray the organization?” are asked during an interrogation in this play, during which the number 846 is described as “necessarily possible.” A man who repeatedly compliments a bowl of cornflakes skips this play's title event for his “chess night,” and later advises the protagonist to “Don't let them tell you what to do!” During a blackout in this play, Lulu is nearly raped by a giggling man who breaks a toy drum with his foot during a game of blind man's bluff. That protagonist of this play stays at a boarding house run by Tom and Meg before being taken away by McCann and Goldberg. For 10 points, name this Harold Pinter play in which the title event is planned for Stanley Webber.
The Birthday Party &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Tong&gt;
7

160474-)
In Doctor Faustus, a character cites a poem about this animal before declaring “I can creep in to every corner of a wench.” That poem was likely written by the medieval poet Ofilius Sergianus but was long attributed to Ovid. The double entendre in the third line of a poem about this animal is less obvious than when it was originally published because “s” and “f” are no longer typographically similar. That poem about this animal states “w'are met / And cloister'd in these living walls of jet.” A man remarks that “Just so much honor, when thou yield'st to me, / Will waste” after a woman “purple[s]” her nail by killing this animal in a poem that begins “Mark but [this animal], and mark in this.” This animal is the conceit of a poem in which “our two bloods mingled be.” For 10 points, name this animal that “sucked me first, and now sucks thee” in a poem by John Donne.
flea &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
7

160507-)
When addressing this character, the speaker says that his brother Maurice lies still in the hay with “my knife...in his side” to explain why this character should “look your last at me, / For I come home no more.” This character was given the surname Hearsay in the original title of a collection that includes “Farewell to barn and stack and tree.” In another poem addressed to this character, he is reprimanded for trying “to rhyme / Your friends to death before their time.” In that poem, this character hears the story of a king who survives eating arsenic and drinking strychnine. A narrator complains of this character that “the verse you make, / It gives a chap the belly-ache” before telling this character that “Malt does more than Milton can / to justify God's ways to man”. For 10 points, name this character who “eats [his] victuals (“vittles”) fast enough” in an A.E. Housman poem that complains “this is stupid stuff.”
Terence Hearsay [accept “Terence, this is stupid stuff”]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
7

160559-)
Queer readings of this novel draw attention to a passage which states “it had taken him, loved him, embraced him.” This novel compares one character to “a man who is lying at the bottom of a precipice where the sun never shines.” The narrator of this novel, who is told that he is in the “gang of virtue,” describes two lazy men with the images of a “papier-mâché Mephistopheles” and a “flabby, pretending, weak-eyed devil.” This novel lauds the “restraint” of a group of “cannibals,” which it contrasts with a group of “pilgrims” who travel to the Inner Station. This novel describes the “blank spaces on the Earth” in its frame story set aboard a boat on the Thames. The essay An Image of Africa criticizes this novel's portrayal of a “Manager's boy” who delivers the line “Mistah Kurtz— he dead.” For 10 points, name this novel about Charles Marlowe's journey into the Congo by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
7

160592-)
A character in this play repeats the line “Because I believe that the world…” three times in a “vacant,” “desperate,” and then “lost” manner. The questions “why did you kill your wife?” and “why did you betray the organization?” are asked during an interrogation in this play, during which the number 846 is described as “necessarily possible.” A man who repeatedly compliments a bowl of cornflakes skips this play's title event for his “chess night,” and later advises the protagonist to “Don't let them tell you what to do!” During a blackout in this play, Lulu is nearly raped by a giggling man who breaks a toy drum with his foot during a game of blind man's bluff. That protagonist of this play stays at a boarding house run by Tom and Meg before being taken away by McCann and Goldberg. For 10 points, name this Harold Pinter play in which the title event is planned for Stanley Webber.
The Birthday Party &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Tong&gt;
7

160600-)
In Doctor Faustus, a character cites a poem about this animal before declaring “I can creep in to every corner of a wench.” That poem was likely written by the medieval poet Ofilius Sergianus but was long attributed to Ovid. The double entendre in the third line of a poem about this animal is less obvious than when it was originally published because “s” and “f” are no longer typographically similar. That poem about this animal states “w'are met / And cloister'd in these living walls of jet.” A man remarks that “Just so much honor, when thou yield'st to me, / Will waste” after a woman “purple[s]” her nail by killing this animal in a poem that begins “Mark but [this animal], and mark in this.” This animal is the conceit of a poem in which “our two bloods mingled be.” For 10 points, name this animal that “sucked me first, and now sucks thee” in a poem by John Donne.
flea &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
7

160633-)
When addressing this character, the speaker says that his brother Maurice lies still in the hay with “my knife...in his side” to explain why this character should “look your last at me, / For I come home no more.” This character was given the surname Hearsay in the original title of a collection that includes “Farewell to barn and stack and tree.” In another poem addressed to this character, he is reprimanded for trying “to rhyme / Your friends to death before their time.” In that poem, this character hears the story of a king who survives eating arsenic and drinking strychnine. A narrator complains of this character that “the verse you make, / It gives a chap the belly-ache” before telling this character that “Malt does more than Milton can / to justify God's ways to man”. For 10 points, name this character who “eats [his] victuals (“vittles”) fast enough” in an A.E. Housman poem that complains “this is stupid stuff.”
Terence Hearsay [accept “Terence, this is stupid stuff”]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
7

160654-)
One character in this play compares a woman's buttocks to Ireland because he “found it out by the bogs” amid a dialogue comparing various parts of that woman's body to European countries. A servant in this play gets lost after his master sends him to buy some rope to beat his wife, Adriana, with. A merchant in this play is given 24 hours to pay a fine for violating an embargo, thus leading this play to obey the Unity of Time. That merchant, Egeon, is visiting Ephesus from Syracuse during this play's action. This play heavily borrows from Plautus's Maenachmi for its plot, which revolves around two pairs of twin brothers named Dromio and Antipholus having their identities confused. For 10 points, name this Shakespearean comedy whose title mishaps include Egeon almost being executed.
The Comedy of Errors &lt;Literature Shakespeare - Myers&gt;
7

160662-)
Alfred, Lord Tennyson quipped that he understood only the first and last lines of one of this man's poems--and that both were lies. The speaker of one of this author's poems encourages his lover to enter “the melancholy little house/ we built to be so gay with” before concluding “God is just.” A court record from a 1698 Roman murder trial forms the basis of an epic poem by this author. An adulterous silk mill owner argues with his mistress about a murder while a girl sings “God's in his heaven, all's right with the world” in another poem by this author. This author wrote monologues named for the Renaissance painters Andrea del Sarto and Fra Lippo Lippi. One character created by this author spurns the gift of a “nine hundred years old name” and has her portrait painted by Fra Pandolf. For 10 points, name this Victorian poet who wrote of a heart “too soon made glad” in “My Last Duchess.”
Robert Browning &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Husar&gt;  Round 5 – Bonuses
7

160685-)
Queer readings of this novel draw attention to a passage which states “it had taken him, loved him, embraced him.” This novel compares one character to “a man who is lying at the bottom of a precipice where the sun never shines.” The narrator of this novel, who is told that he is in the “gang of virtue,” describes two lazy men with the images of a “papier-mâché Mephistopheles” and a “flabby, pretending, weak-eyed devil.” This novel lauds the “restraint” of a group of “cannibals,” which it contrasts with a group of “pilgrims” who travel to the Inner Station. This novel describes the “blank spaces on the Earth” in its frame story set aboard a boat on the Thames. The essay An Image of Africa criticizes this novel's portrayal of a “Manager's boy” who delivers the line “Mistah Kurtz— he dead.” For 10 points, name this novel about Charles Marlowe's journey into the Congo by Joseph Conrad.
Heart of Darkness &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
7

160724-)
The Harvard Crimson quoted a poem in this form in which a man “put his mother… in the sausage machine” to mock Langford Reed's attempt to create a collection of “decent” poems in this form. A description of “a shower of quotes / From the Sanskrit and Dante” appears in the last of five poems that rewrite The Wasteland in this form by Wendy Cope. A poem in this form describes a “cautious” man who “dined on one pea and one bean.” Scholars such as Gershon Legman and George Bernard Shaw argue that true poems in this form are necessarily bawdy. A young lady plays a harp with her chin in one of several nonsensical poems in this form by Edward Lear. These quintains have a primarily anapestic meter and an AABBA (“A-A-B-B-A”) rhyme scheme. For 10 points, name these brief, humorous poems that are named for a town in Ireland.
limerick [prompt on quintain before mention]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
7

160727-)
One story describes these animals' “phosphorescent eyes” as “luminous, terrible sequins.” In that story, a jilted witch transforms an entire wedding party into these animals. In another story, villagers stone an old woman to death after a body part cut from one of these animals transforms into her amputated hand. A hunter seduces a young girl and then burns all her clothes in “The Company of [these animals],” one of three stories about these animals in The Bloody Chamber. The Carpathian nobles Ulrich von Gradwitz and Georg Znaeym realize that the “brave lads” that have come to rescue them are actually these animals at the end of Saki's The Interlopers. In a fairy tale, one of these animals justifies his abnormally large eyes with the explanation “All the better to see you with.” For 10 points, what kind of animal kills the Grandmother in “Little Red Riding Hood?”
wolves [accept werewolves]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
7

160731-)
The narrator of this work recalls a time when the crowd yelled with “hideous laughter” after he was tripped during a soccer game and the referee “looked the other way.” The narrator of this work believes that when a man like himself becomes a tyrant, he becomes “a hollow, posing dummy” and must do what his subjects expect of him. After seeing a dead man “grinning with an expression of unendurable agony,” the narrator of this work remarks, “Never tell me, by the way, that the dead look peaceful.” The narrator of this work tries to “avoid looking like a fool” when he is followed around by a crowd of two thousand people. A mahout who is twelve hours away from the central setting of this work is the only one who can tame an animal who has “gone must.” This essay's narrator performs the title action while serving as a police officer in Burma. A large animal is killed in, for 10 points, what essay by George Orwell?
“Shooting an Elephant”  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - McCullar&gt;
7

160751-)
This poet described how the “flames” of those “With whom the infant Love yet plays...do lose their light, / Like meteors of a summer's night” in the poem “The Unfortunate Lover.” The title creatures “portend / No war nor prince's funeral” and possess an “officious flame” in a poem by this author that calls them “country comets” and “living lamps.” This poet wrote “Tis madness to resist or blame / The force of angry Heaven's flame” after describing how the title figure “like the three-fork'd lightning” destroyed Caesar; that “restless” character “could not cease / In the inglorious arts of peace.” This poet wrote of “deserts of vast eternity” in a poem whose speaker describes the growth of his “vegetable love.” For 10 points, “An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland” was written by which poet, who described “Time's wingèd chariot hurrying near” in “To His Coy Mistress?”
Andrew Marvell &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Shanmugam&gt;
7

160772-)
A 1998 play by Mark Ravenhill intertwines a prequel to a play by this author with a plot about a gay and a lesbian couple each trying to raise a baby. In a play by this author, a character remarks that “the people the world takes seriously” are “dull people” after commenting on the “astounding stupidity of optimism.” In another play by this author, an old lady ridicules another character for being born “in a handbag.” A man in a play by this author is rumored to be having an affair with Mrs. Erlynne, who never tells the title character that she is her long-lost mother. In a play by this author, a character avoids social obligations by visiting the imaginary “permanent invalid” Bunbury. For 10 points, name this author of Lady Windermere's Fan and The Importance of Being Earnest.
Oscar Wilde &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;
7

160784-)
A character lies about a visit to this character's house by describing a game with swords of flags and a cupboard full of pistols, jam and pills. This character is pushed around in a wheelchair while a boy sings her a song about Old Clem, which he learned from a blacksmith. That boy realizes that Mr. Pumblechook has never seen this character after he describes her as “very tall and dark.” While visiting this woman's house, the protagonist fights with a “pale young gentleman” who is later revealed to be Herbert Pocket. That protagonist first believes that this woman is his benefactor after Mr. Jaggers tells him that he has been sponsored to become a gentleman. This woman has all the clocks in Satis House stopped at twenty to nine after she is abandoned on her wedding day by the villainous Compeyson. For 10 points, name this guardian of Estella, a jilted bride from Great Expectations.
Miss Havisham &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Jackson&gt;
7

160804-)
In a novel set in this country, a filmmaker recalls trying to pick up girls with a song beginning “Oh we all walk ze wibberlee wobberlee walk.” A drunkard in that novel set in this country tells his walnut-growing neighbor about his theory that Adam's punishment was being forced to stay in Eden alone. In another novel, a man in this country avoids arrest because of the roughness of his hands and converses with his illegitimate daughter near a rubbish heap. In this country, a horse with the number seven branded on its leg tramples Yvonne to death after being startled by the murder of the consul Geoffrey Firmin in Malcolm Lowry's novel Under the Volcano. In another novel, a lieutenant working for this country's anti-Catholic government hunts down the alcoholic “whiskey priest.” For 10 points, name this setting of Graham Greene's novel The Power and the Glory.
Mexico [or United Mexican States; or Estados Unidos Mexicanos]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Morrison&gt;
7

160826-)
In a poem about this person, the speaker claims that no one in the world “knows well” to “shun the heaven” that this person offers. Two poems about this person were originally published in a collection entitled The Passionate Pilgrim. In another poem about this person, the speaker admits to betraying his “nobler part” to his “gross body's treason.” Alfred Leslie Rowse used the diaries of the court astrologer Simon Forman to theorize that the identity of this person was the poet Emilia Lanier. This woman is said to “tread on the ground” in a poem in which her hair is compared to “black wires.” A sequence of poems about this woman follows a sequence about a “fair youth,” with whom this woman supposedly had a liaison. For 10 points, name this woman “whose eyes are nothing like the sun,” the subject of many William Shakespeare sonnets.
dark lady &lt;Literature Shakespeare - Husar&gt;
7

160870-)
One of this author's speakers wonders at the fact that fire “should harden ice” and ice “should kindle fire.” Nine stanzas of anacreonatics by this poet were appended to one of his collections whose entries correspond to daily readings prescribed by the Book of Common Prayer. The speaker is told that he “dost in vain assay, / A mortal thing so to immortalize” by the tide in a poem by this writer. One poem by this author opens “Happy ye leaves when as those lily hands,” while another begins “One day I wrote her name upon the strand.” This poet included “Epithalamion” in an 81-sonnet cycle dedicated to Elizabeth Boyle, his Amoretti. In this author's most famous work, the wizard Archimago tricks the Redcrosse Knight and a monarch named Gloriana serves as the title figure. For 10 points, name this author of The Faerie Queene.
Edmund Spenser &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
7

160879-)
In a play created by this author, a woman demands that her love interest “be father and mother, brother, cousin, uncle, aunt, and friend” to her in a parody of his era's overwrought dramas. Don Ferolo Whiskerandos and Tilburina appear in that meta-play created by this author. In that play by this author, Sneer and Dangle offer malicious comments on a play by Puff. One character in another play by this author uses the pseudonym “Delia” to write fake love letters to Sir Lucius O'Trigger. Jack Absolute disguises himself as Ensign Beverley in order to court Lydia Languish in that play by this author, in which lines like “an allegory on the banks of the Nile” and “the pineapple of politeness” are spoken by her aunt, Miss Malaprop. For 10 points, name this Irish comedic playwright of The Critic, The Rivals and The School for Scandal.
Richard Brinsley Sheridan &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Myers&gt;
7

160893-)
In one essay, this critic lauded the “telescoping of images” in the line “A bracelet of bright hair about the bone.” That essay uses the term “dissociation of sensibility” to discuss the poetic school of Henry Vaughn and Abraham Cowley. Another essay by this author discusses a concept that involves “the pastness of the past” but also its “presence.” This author re-popularized “the 'School of Donne” in his essay “The Metaphysical Poets,” and he pioneered the concept of an “objective correlative” in his essay “Hamlet and His Problems.” In a footnote, this author wrote that he “quite arbitrarily” associated “The Man with Three Staves” with the Fisher King while explaining his poem's reference to Tarot cards such as the “Merchant” and the “Phoenician Sailor.” For 10 points, name this author of “Tradition and the Individual Talent” and the poem The Waste Land.
T. S. Eliot &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - French&gt;  Bonuses
7

160900-)
The so-called “father of Australian music” wrote a book of Recollections of this author after their first collaboration. The last section of Heinrich Heine's Romanzero is named in tribute to a collection by this poet whose best-known poem was written to fit the melody of a piece sung to the “Sovereign of the Universe.” His previously written “I speak not -- I trace not -- I breathe not thy name” was added to a collection made in collaboration with Isaac Nathan. In one of this writer's poems, “idols are broke in the temple of Baal” after “the might of the Gentile ... Hath melted like snow” because of the Angel of Death. “A heart whose love is innocent” is praised in a poem by this author whose subject is compared to “the night / Of cloudless climes and starry skies.” For 10 points, name this poet whose Hebrew Melodies contains “The Destruction of Sennacherib” and “She Walks in Beauty.”
George Gordon, Lord Byron [accept either underlined portion]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Smith&gt;
7

160914-)
A poem about an animal in this location known as the Fastitocalon, representing the Devil, is often paired with allegorical poems about a panther and a partridge. The opening line of a poem about a man in this place was rendered as “May I for my own self song's truth reckon” for the collection Ripostes. Ezra Pound made a translation of a 124-line poem set in this sort of place that ends with the single-word sentence “Amen.” In a flyting scene, the protagonist of a poem boasts how he killed nine monsters in this location. Unferth attacks that protagonist for his poor performance in a contest in this location. The kennings “swan-road” and “whale-road” refer to this place, the setting of a contest between Beowulf and Breca. For 10 points, Beowulf witnesses Shield Sheafson's body being sent to what location to be burned after being placed in a ship?
the sea [or ocean]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Keyal&gt;  Bonuses
7

160926-)
This character wonders “Who chose this face for me? This dogsbody to rid of vermin” upon looking into a cracked mirror. This man hears a voice “sweettoned and sustained” calling to him from the sea before thinking of the single word “usurper,” which may refer to a character who had upset this man by describing death as a “beastly thing and nothing else.” That character calls this man a “fearful Jesuit” while parodying the Catholic mass with his shaving items. This character remarks that “history is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake” during a conversation with the anti-Semitic schoolmaster Mr. Deasy. This roommate of Buck Mulligan corresponds roughly to the character Telemachus from the Odyssey. For 10 points, the first three chapters of Ulysses focus on what character, who is also the protagonist of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man?
Stephen Dedalus [or Stephen Dedalus]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Morrison&gt;
7

160946-)
In one poem in this language, the narrator is accompanied by the allegorical figures of fun, superstition, and hypocrisy to the title “Holy Fair”, where they watch an evangelical church service. One poet who wrote in this language asked, “are my poems spoken in the factories and fields?” in his “Second Hymn to Lenin”. One poem in this language ends each stanza with the Latin line “timor mortis conturbat me” and lists dead poets called makers who wrote in this language. The epic “A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle” was written in this language, as was a poem that begins “O would some power give us the gift/ to see ourselves as others see us!” Another poem in this language provided the title of Of Mice and Men and addresses a “wee... tim'rous beastie.” “To a Louse” and “To a Mouse” were written in what language, whose Highland and Lowland dialects were used in poems by Hugh MacDiarmid and Robert Burns?
Scots [accept Scottish English, prompt on English, Middle English with “where was it spoken?” and accept if the given answer is Scotland, do not accept Scottish Gaelic]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Myers&gt;
7

160964-)
C.C. Barfoot attributed this character's inability to “comprehend the neglect of a family library in such days as these” to the control society has over his wealth in the book The Thread of Connection, which analyzes this character's creator. When visiting this character's home, another character marvels “how much of pleasure or pain was it in his power to bestow” after this man's housekeeper, Mrs. Reynolds, compliments him. After being accused of not behaving in a “gentlemanlike manner,” this man writes a letter elaborating on his dealings with George Wickham. While at a ball, this man derides a woman as “tolerable, but not handsome enough to tempt” him to his friend Charles Bingley. For 10 points, name this broding resident of Pemberley who marries Elizabeth Bennet at the end of Pride and Prejudice.
Mr. Darcy [or Fitzwilliam Darcy]  &lt;Literature British Non-Shakespeare - Husar&gt;
7

160969-)
Description acceptable. A speech in this scene recalls the motif of the painted lady in the command “Now get you to my lady's chamber and tell her, let / her paint an inch thick.” In this scene, one character asserts that “it's no great matter” if a madman is sent to England, since “there the men / are as mad as he.” In this scene, a character frustratedly exclaims “How absolute the knave is!” after a man calls a body “One that was a woman… but rest her soul, she's dead.” A man in this scene asks an object “Where be your gibes now? your / gambols? your songs?” In this scene, a man cries “I knew him… a fellow / of infinite jest” as he holds the skull of the jester Yorick. For 10 points, name this scene from the last act of Hamlet, commonly named after two fools of a certain occupation.
Hamlet, Act V, Scene i [or gravedigger scene, or Alas, poor Yorick!, or Hamlet holds a skull before “skull;” accept any description that uniquely identifies as the first scene from the fifth act of Hamlet]  &lt;Literature Shakespeare - French&gt;
7

161001-)
A 2017 book by Peter Brooks is titled for this author’s alleged claim that his country’s capital would never have been ruined if people had read his most recent novel. A set of “principles for a sociology of cultural works” is outlined alongside an essay on this author’s “point of view” in Pierre Bourdieu’s The Field of Cultural Production. This novelist once claimed “The author, in his work, must be like God in the Universe, present everywhere and visible nowhere.” Jean-Paul (*) Sartre’s final monograph was a 3,000-page study of this man titled The Family Idiot. This author once remarked of his most famous character: “c’est moi” [say MWAH]. Geoffrey Braithwaite tries to track down the inspiration for this author’s story “A Simple Heart” in a Julian Barnes novel titled for this man’s Parrot. This realist tried to use the precise “mot juste” [moh ZHEWST]. For 10 points, name this author of Madame Bovary.
Gustave Flaubert [accept Flaubert in the Ruins of Paris or Flaubert’s Parrot] &lt;JR&gt;
8

161010-)
A character in this play is compared to Priapus when he sings about whipping people with his penis. Another character compares this play’s setting to a “pool of eternal youth” for “citified souls” and proposes digging for guano in order to create farmland. In its final scene, a character plans to eliminate “opossums” with “vile grins,” shouting, “I shall protect civilization!” The “historical name” Hannibal is proposed for a man in this play who says that his “name has been stolen.” A “really big guy to do the wind” and “someone strong for Captain of the ship” are requested by the Master of (*) Ceremonies while this play’s actors choose masks. Iris, Ceres, and Juno are joined by the “black devil-god” Eshu in this play, which reimagines two pre-existing characters as a mulatto and a black slave. Prospero frees Ariel, but not Caliban, in—for 10 points—what reimagining of a Shakespeare play by Aimé Césaire?
A Tempest [or Une Tempête; do not accept or prompt on “The Tempest”] &lt;DS&gt;
8

161013-)
In “Resolution and Independence,” the speaker claims that the leech-gatherer stared at the water as if he’d just been using these objects. The addressee of a poem is told to stop using these objects “Or surely you’ll grow double.” The speaker of another poem claims that not using these objects is like “look[ing] round…Mother Earth / As if she for no purpose bore you; / As if you were her first-born birth, / And none had lived before you!” Using these objects is contrasted with “dream[ing] [one’s] time away” while sitting on an (*) “old grey stone” in “Expostulation and Reply.” In “The Tables Turned,” these objects are called a “dull and endless strife” and are contrasted with “let[ting] Nature be your Teacher.” Wordsworth dismisses these objects with the lines “Enough of Science and of Art / Close up those barren leaves.” For 10 points, name these objects that include Lyrical Ballads and Wordsworth’s Poetical Works.
books &lt;JR&gt;
8

161036-)
In a play by this author, a character urges, “Hang the malicious world––There’s charms in wealth and honour, but none half so powerful as love” to persuade her sister Marcella to escape a “dull virtuous life” with Octavio by pretending to be a prostitute. Mr. Jevern states that the “industrious Stage / Has strove to please a dull ungrateful Age” in the prologue of another play by this author, in which Elaria and Bellemante are forbidden to marry human suitors by their father, Doctor Baliardo, who wants to marry his daughters to (*) alien suitors instead. This author of The Feign’d Curtizans wrote a play in which the vengeful Angellica Bianca falls in love with and later attempts to murder Willmore. In A Room of One’s Own, Virginia Woolf urged women to drop flowers on the grave of this playwright of The Emperor of the Moon. For 10 points, name this Restoration author of The Rover and Oroonoko.
Aphra Behn &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161050-)
A section of a book set in this city begins with a poem that spirals around the page and begins “Ho this is a mighty twisting thing fast as a fish being pulled by its mouth….” In that novel, which was published in two versions, a girl’s iPad is construed as “votive tablet” by an older inhabitant of this city. This setting was paired with modern England in Ali Smith’s How to Be Both. The speaker of a poem set in this city comments that “none puts by / The curtain I have drawn for you, but I” and describes his gift of a (*) “nine-hundred-years-old name.” That poem set in this city ends by describing “Neptune…taming a sea-horse…which Claus of Innsbruck cast in bronze.” That poem describes how a “bough of cherries” could bring up a “spot of joy” in a noblewoman of this city, who had a “heart too soon made glad.” For 10 points, name this Italian city whose duke narrates Robert Browning’s “My Last Duchess.”
Ferrara &lt;JR&gt;
8

161062-)
Christian Gutleben has argued that this character became the “first true outcast” of “nostalgic postmodernism” through declarations such as “I have set myself beyond the pale.” This character gets a job after a passionate reading of Psalm 119, but is nearly fired for sleeping in Ware Commons. In one appearance, this character is found in a Chelsea apartment working as an assistant to Dante Gabriel Rossetti. After this character intervenes on behalf of the maid Millie, she is spied on by Mrs. Fairley, who then tells Mrs. (*) Poulteney that she spends much of her free time at The Cobb, staring out into the sea. The Hackney servant Sam Farrow aspires to open a haberdashery in the novel titled for this character, whose tryst with Varguennes is recounted by Ernestina Freeman. Charles Smithson, in one of three different endings, proposes to—for 10 points—what disgraced woman who titles a John Fowles novel?
Sarah (Emily) Woodruff [accept either underlined portion; accept The French Lieutenant’s Woman; prompt on Tragedy or the French Lieutenant’s Whore] &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161090-)
This author used a word meaning “doglike,” whose translations as “whore” or “bitch that I was” were criticized in an introduction defending the more neutral verb “hounding.” An recent blank-verse translation of one of this author’s poems preserves the exact number of lines in the original and includes the exhortation to “Find the beginning” and “tell the old story for our modern times.” This author was called eminently “rapid,” “direct” in expression, “plain” in ideas, and “noble” in a set of (*) lectures On Translating [Him] by Matthew Arnold. The word “complicated” was used by Emily Wilson to translate a word by this author that’s sometimes translated as “of twists and turns.” A pair of works by this author were introduced and annotated by Bernard Knox for Robert Fagles’s translation. For 10 points, name this blind poet who “wrote” the Odyssey.
Homer [or Homeros] &lt;JR&gt;
8

161098-)
In an essay, this author joked that Shakespeare should have replaced Hamlet’s grave-digger scene with a discussion of palace iconography between Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. That essay by this author described how he used the “rules of probability” to blend “ancient” and “modern” romance. One of this author’s characters accuses another of being a necromancer due to the similarity between a black-feather-covered object and an object missing from his grandfather’s tomb. This author’s wounding by highwayman James MacLaine inspired his friend Thomas (*) Gray to write “Elegy Written in A Country Churchyard.” A villa this author built at Twickenham helped to inspire his novel about Isabella’s attempts to escape marriage to the father of her dead fiancé, who is crushed to death by an enormous helmet. Strawberry Hill was designed by—for 10 points—what Gothic author of The Castle of Otranto?
Horace Walpole &lt;DS&gt; (The essay is the preface to the second edition of The Castle of Otranto.)   Pre-ICT and Nationals Open/Minnesota Open 2019 (PIANO/MO): “What about bad subject matter? Or a bad title drop, even? That could kill a tournament pretty good.” Written and edited by Jacob Reed, Adam Silverman, Sam Bailey, Michael Borecki, Stephen Eltinge, Adam S. Fine, Jason Golfinos, Matt Jackson, Wonyoung Jang, Michael Kearney, Moses Kitakule, Shan Kothari, Chloe Levine, John Marvin, and Derek So, with Joey Goldman and Will Holub-Moorman.  Packet 13 Bonuses
8

161105-)
A novel by this author is constantly referenced by the protagonist’s mother in Jeanette Winterson’s novel Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit. A novel by this author inspired another novel in which Acheron Hades is pursued by the detective Thursday Next. Jasper Fforde’s debut novel was inspired by this author, whose letters exchanged with Ellen Nussey served as major sources for a biography in which her love for Constantin Héger was mostly suppressed. A character created by this author titles a seminal work of feminist literary criticism by (*) Sandra Gilbert and Susan Gubar. Elizabeth Gaskell wrote a biography of this author, one of whose novels inspired a different novel about Antoinette Cosway as an “anti-colonial” response. Jean Rhys’s Wide Sargasso Sea was based on a novel by—for 10 points—what author who created the “madwoman in the attic” Bertha Mason in Jane Eyre?
Charlotte Brontë [accept Currer Bell; prompt on Brontë or Bell] (The Fforde novel is The Eyre Affair.) &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161124-)
A two-part unfinished work by this poet begins by describing a “man that sees the ever-whirling wheel of Change” and noting how the title figure plays “her cruel sports, to many mens decay.” This poet alluded to Petrarch’s laurel by describing “Bayleaves between and Primroses green” in a poem that was published under the pseudonym “Immerito.” The first recorded use of the word “sarcasm” in English is in a work by this poet that is narrated by the mysterious (*) “E.K.” One of this poet’s characters meets a tree who was once the man Fradubio. This poet’s Mutabilitie Cantos feature stanzas in “AB AB BC BC C” rhyme, consisting of eight lines of iambic pentameter plus an alexandrine. The character of Colin Clout was created by this poet, who featured allegorical figures like the Redcrosse Knight and Gloriana in an epic poem. For 10 points, who wrote The Shepheardes Calender and The Faerie Queene?
Edmund Spenser [accept Spenserian stanza] &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161136-)
This author asked the “interpreters” of one of his plays to “treat [the] play as they would a masterpiece like Macbeth,” but to treat him “without any respect.” A poem by this author begins by describing a “Sunday heavy lid on the boiling of blood.” A fictional version of this author describes war as “capitalism with the gloves off” and says “It takes courage to sit down and be counted.” This non-English-language author meets Lenin in a play centering on Henry Carr’s production of The (*) Importance of Being Earnest. This man wrote The Approximate Man and, in Tom Stoppard’s play Travesties, he makes a poem by pulling cut-up words from a Shakespeare sonnet out of a hat. A play by this author ends with the line “This will end with a lovely marriage” and features characters called Mouth, Ear, Eye, Nose, Neck, and Eyebrow. For 10 points, name this author of The Gas Heart, a Romanian-born Dadaist.
Tristan Tzara [accept Samuel Rosenstock or S. Samyro] &lt;MW&gt;
8

161151-)
The protagonist of one of this author’s novels writes that “Algebra, like laudanum, deadens pain” before his fiancé dies of tuberculosis. This novelist fictionalized the years just before World War I in the novels The Gate of Angels and The Beginning of Spring. In another of this author’s novels, Florence is run out of town after trying to open up the title store in a haunted house. This author won the Booker for an autobiographical novel in which (*) Nenna is left by her husband on their houseboat in the Thames. The protagonist falls in love with the 12-year-old Sophie in the final novel by this author of The Bookshop, which was inspired by hearing musical settings of Hymns to the Night. For 10 points, name this British author of Offshore who fictionalized the life of Novalis in The Blue Flower.
Penelope Fitzgerald [or Penelope Knox] &lt;JR&gt;
8

161164-)
A poem by this author repeats the refrain “I carry the sun in a golden cup. / The moon in a silver bag.” That poem by this author begins, “Come, let me sing into your ear; / those dancing days are gone.” A poem by this author describes three people who “sat grown quiet at the name of love” and laments a time when “it all had seemed happy, and yet we’d grown / as weary-hearted as that hollow moon.” This poet asks the reader to (*) “take down this book, / and slowly read, and dream of the soft look / your eyes had once” in his poem “When You Are Old.” One poem by this author of “Adam’s Curse” ends with the lines “I must lie down where all the ladders start / in the foul rag and bone shop of the heart,” while another concludes “How can we know the dancer from the dance?” “Among School Children” and “The Circus Animals’ Desertion” were written by—for 10 points—what Irish poet?
W(illiam) B(utler) Yeats &lt;MK&gt;
8

161169-)
This text inspired a performance form in which hundreds of topless men sit in concentric circles and wave their arms while chanting in rapid alternation. Murals depicting this text cover the outside wall of the Temple of the Emerald Buddha. An enactment of a scene from this text was developed by the German artist Walter Spies [vahl-tuh SHPEEZ] and is called kechak. This text is the basis for a namesake (*) lila or “play” performed in mid-autumn. A vernacular retelling of this text was made by Tulsidas. The dramatic forms of kong and nang grew out of a Thai retelling of this text, whose name ends in -kien. A “ballet” of this text is performed every full moon at the temple complex Prambanan. Most traditional Southeast Asian theater is drawn from the Mahabharata and—for 10 points—what other Hindu epic?
Ramayana [accept Ramlila or Ramakien] &lt;JR&gt;
8

161204-)
In this city, a protagonist stages a “great revolution” by shaking a batch of eggs to prevent them from hatching. In this city, Quimet raises war pigeons on the roof and the naïve stream-of-consciousness narrator Natalia is driven to kill her starving children in the novel The Time of the Doves. Another book describes this city as “a town where the working class was in the saddle,” since “every wall was scrawled with the hammer and sickle and with the initials of the revolutionary parties.” After being shot in the (*) throat by a sniper, the protagonist of that book returns to this city only to find that his party, the P·O·U·M is being purged. That book concludes that Stalin’s repression of rival leftist groups in this city lost the Spanish Civil War for the Republicans. For 10 points, name this setting of much of George Orwell’s Homage to Catalonia.
Barcelona &lt;JR&gt;
8

161214-)
Description acceptable. Kevin Kiernan used UV light to study this object, which was first described by Franciscus Junius. This object is the subject of Andy Orchard’s book Pride and Prodigies. Kemp Malone improved Nikolaj Grundtvig’s reconstructions of text from the edges of this object. The first writer of this document stopped in the middle of a sentence and was replaced by a scribe who spelled a name in it with an “I” instead of an “E.” This document includes a letter from Alexander the Great to Aristotle and a bestiary called the Wonders of the East. The (*) Ashburnham House fire scorched this object, which contains the poem Judith. This document, which was most likely created around the early 11th century, is often named after its first owner, Laurence Nowell. This document’s central section contains characters like Onela, Heardred, Hygelac, and Wiglaf. For 10 points, identify this source of the longest poem in Old English.
the Beowulf manuscript [accept similar answers; accept Nowell Codex before “Laurence Nowell”; accept Cotton MS Vitellius A.xv; prompt on answers indicating a poem rather than the physical document] &lt;DS&gt;
8

161248-)
The author redacted some risqué lines in which this character tells an old woman he dreamed of an “ancient, cloven tree / in which a giant hole did gleam.” This character quips “It’s splendid to believe in words; from words you cannot steal a single letter” and later sings lyrics cribbed from one of Ophelia’s songs while playing a zither. This character pities mankind because they torment themselves like “a kind of grasshopper…that’s always in flight,” according to the play’s second prologue. This character is brought a crown by two clumsy (*) apes, and he easily parries sword thrusts while urging a friend to kill Valentine. This character bets that he can make a companion say “linger a while, thou art so fair!” before taking him to a witch’s sabbath. This character first appears as a jet-black poodle and helps the title character seduce Gretchen. For 10 points, what character makes a bargain with Faust?
Mephistopheles &lt;DS&gt;
8

161253-)
The narrator of a novel by this author makes phallic references to the Post Office Tower near his apartment. In that novel by this author, which ends with “Post-Scripts” by “Dramatis Personae,” Bradley Pearson is convicted for the murder of Arnold Baffin. The protagonist of another novel by this author goes on a bar crawl after finding a note stating “gone to the pub,” and later searches for his ex-girlfriend Anna Quentin in Paris on Bastille Day. In that novel by this author, a dog named (*) Mr. Mars is kidnapped by a man who adapted his conversations with Hugo Bellfounder into the book The Silencer. This creator of Jake Donaghue wrote a novel in which the playwright Charles Arrowby encounters his lost lover Mary Hartley Fitch. For 10 points, name this Irish-born British author of The Black Prince, Under the Net, and The Sea, The Sea.
(Jean) Iris Murdoch &lt;JM&gt;
8

161263-)
Art historian Esther Jacobson proposed an ancient goddess of this form based on stones depicting these things in South Siberia and Mongolia. In heraldry, one these things called the “pantheon” is studded with stars. A white one of these things with a gold crown and chain around its neck was the emblem of England’s Richard II. Another white one of these things was pursued by the brothers Hunor and Magor in a Hungarian origin myth. One of these creatures was trotted around to inspire awe by the Roman rebel (*) Sertorius. As a hermit, Saint Giles took care of one of these creatures; another was seen with a crucifix above its head in visions by Saint Hubert and Saint Eustace. The hunting hounds of the Fianna found a maiden in this form named Sadhbh, who later became Finn mac Cool’s wife. The four animals eating Yggdrasil are—for 10 points—what ungulates whose antlers blend in with the branches?
deer [or roes; or roebucks; or bucks; or stags; or does; or harts; or fauns; or reindeer; or cervids; accept The Deer Goddess of Ancient Siberia] &lt;MJ&gt;
8

161271-)
The surname of a character who does this title action was adopted by Oscar Wilde after leaving Reading Gaol. A person who does this title action is encountered by the Indian Immalee, the Spaniard Alonzo Monçada, and the other narrators of a series of nested stories. This is the first verb in a poem whose speaker “little thought / What wealth the show to me had brought.” In an 1820 Gothic novel by Charles (*) Maturin, this title action is performed by an ancestor of John Melmoth. This action is invoked in the first line of a poem that describes how a “vacant or…pensive mood” can be enlivened by “that inward eye / Which is the bliss of solitude.” A “host” of daffodils are seen by a poetic speaker who does—for 10 points—what action “lonely as a cloud”?
wandering [accept Melmoth the Wanderer or “I wandered lonely as a cloud”; prompt on synonyms like travel by asking “What’s the action referenced in the title?”] &lt;JR&gt;
8

161285-)
Stephen Greenblatt suggests that this character references Edward Coke’s accusations of perjury against Gunpowder Plot accomplice Father Henry Garnet, since this character mentions “an equivocator, that could swear in both the scales against either scale.” This character’s monologue opens a scene that an essay describes as producing an effect of “peculiar awfulness and a depth of solemnity.” That essay opens with the declaration that “From my (*) boyish days I had always felt a great perplexity on” the scene this character appears in, and is by Thomas de Quincey. This character asserts that “drink, sir, is a great provoker of three things” after letting Lennox and Macduff into Inverness Castle. For 10 points, name this comical character who answers the “knocking at the gate” in Act 2, Scene 3 of Macbeth.
The Porter &lt;WJ&gt;
8

161318-)
7. This work concludes with the speaker telling readers that they are "grossly mistaken" if they think she can recollect any of the "hodge-podge medley of speech" she has just spoken. This essay praises bees and their "inimitable combs" for their "industry" despite being "Nature's dumb creatures." Much of this essay attacks "long-robed philosophers," "artisans," and priests, and describes how the title character is served by Laziness, Forgetfulness, and Self-Love. This (*) encomium is often published with the illustrations of Hans Holbein, and is named for a goddess who is the daughter of Youth and Plutus laughing at the stupidity of the world. Thomas More is the dedicatee of, for 10 points, what essay by Desiderius Erasmus that venerates foolishness?
In Praise of Folly [accept The Praise of Folly or Stultitiae Laus or Moriae Encomium]  &lt;Jose, Literature - European&gt;
5

161322-)
11. An author with this surname wrote about a girl who is "lazy laughing languid" and "fond of a kiss and fond of a guinea." Another author with this surname edited a poetry magazine whose title alludes to the concept that human imagination contains "The Germ" of an idea. This family included William Michael, as well as an author who wrote of two women telling each other "Come and kiss me. / Never mind my bruises, / Hug me, kiss me, suck my juices." The poem (*) "Jenny" was written by an author of this family who wrote a poem in which the title figures state "Come buy, come buy" to Laura, who gives a lock of hair in exchange for fruit. "Goblin Market" was written by Christina, a member of, for 10 points, what family that included the artist Dante Gabriel?
Rossetti  &lt;Dees, Literature - British&gt;
5

161348-)
16. Upon seeing Aubrey Beardsley's depiction of a "billet-doux" from this poem, James Whistler told Beardsley "you are a great artist." This poem ends with the title object being "consecrate[d] to fame" in the "midst of stars," and opens with the speaker singing "this verse" to a muse named "C----," who is the author's friend John Caryll. The proclamation "Let spades be trumps" is spoken by a sylph during this poem's depiction of the card game (*) ombre. In this poem, Clarissa gives a baron a "two-edged" pair of scissors, whose "little engine" is used to take the title object from Belinda. The line "what mighty contests rise from trivial things" begins, for 10 points, what rhyming "mock-heroic" poem written by Alexander Pope?
The Rape of the Lock  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161359-)
6. In a backstory, a character with this profession entertained a general even though the general was responsible for the death of his son Leonard in the Boer War. At the conclusion of a novel, a character in this profession hopes to "pleasantly surprise his boss" after he cries while viewing lights at a pier in Weymouth. A man with this profession is forced to fire two Jewish women in his employ after his boss starts hosting meetings attended by "Herr (*) Ribbentrop." An American named Mr. Farraday employs a man of this profession in a 1989 novel that consists of the protagonist's recollection of his former employer, a Nazi-sympathizer named Lord Darlington. For 10 points, Mr. Stevens has what profession in Kazuo Ishiguro's novel The Remains of the Day?
butlers [accept valets before "pleasantly"; prompt on house servant; prompt on house manager]  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161380-)
6. In Human, All Too Human, Friedrich Nietzsche praises the "squirrel-soul" of this author, since his "hermaphroditism" makes him "the freest writer." Four books of this author's sermons, as well as his letters to Eliza Draper, were attributed to one of his characters. That character created by him ends one novel by grabbing something belonging to a chambermaid and exchanges snuff boxes with a monk in Calais at the opening. Dr. (*) Slop accidentally flattens the protagonist's nose with forceps in another of his novels, in which a falling window accidentally circumcises the narrator. This author of A Sentimental Journey wrote a digressive novel whose title character narrates his "life and opinions." For 10 points, name this author of Tristram Shandy.
Laurence Sterne  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161386-)
12. The 60th essay of The Rambler warns about the danger of producing this kind of work from "personal knowledge." This kind of work provides the subtitle to Peter Ackroyd's critically-acclaimed book London. A work in this genre, which records the quotation "Patriotism is the last refuge of a scoundrel," recounts the fateful first encounter between its Edinburgh-born author and a man who hated (*) Scots. Thomas Arnold's reform of the Rugby School is described in a set of four works of this type called Eminent Victorians. The composition of The Dictionary of the English Language is described in a work in this genre by James Boswell. For 10 points, Samuel Johnson was the subject of a celebrated example of what type of work describing his life?
biography [or biographical work; or lives before "life"; do not accept or prompt on "autobiography"]  &lt;Gupta, Literature - World and Miscellaneous&gt;
5

161433-)
17. The speaker of a poem in this collection asks "What are those blue remembered hills, / What spires, what farms are those?" before calling them "the land of lost content." Its first poem describes how the "beacon burns" on Clee hill, noting "fifty years to-night / that God saved the queen." A speaker answers "I cheer a dead man's sweetheart, / Never ask me whose" in a poem from this collection in which a dead man asks "Is My Team (*) Ploughing?" Another of its poems is addressed to a "townsman of a stiller town," who is told "early though the laurel grows / It withers quicker than the rose." A "smart lad" who slipped "betimes away" is the subject of "To an Athlete Dying Young," a poem from, for 10 points, what collection by A. E. Housman?
A Shropshire Lad  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161447-)
10. A song recited by one of these characters compares rubies to "freckles" in petals, and likens cowslip flowers to "pensioners" or bodyguards serving a ruler. Another of these characters "bakes the elflocks in foul sluttish hairs," tickles a parson's nose with a "tithe-pig's tail," and is served by a "team of little atomi." One of these characters had forsworn her husband's "bed and company" and is served by the quartet of Mob, Cobweb, (*) Peaseblossom, and Mustardseed. A chariot made from an empty hazelnut is said to be possessed by one of these characters "no bigger than an agate stone" according to a soliloquy by Mercutio. For 10 points, name this type of character, exemplified by the queens Mab and Titania in William Shakespeare's plays.
fairies [accept fairy queens; prompt on queens]  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161474-)
16. A 1940 essay notes that the hemistichs of this text are similar to "building blocks" its author calls "A + B"; that essay suggests the translation "flood timber" for this text's phrase sund-wudu. This text is said to be about man's war "with a hostile world" and his "inevitable overthrow in Time" in another essay. This work's title character exclaims "Fate will unwind as it must," suggesting that the version of this text in the Nowell Codex was modified by a (*) Christian writer. In "The Monsters and the Critics," J.R.R. Tolkien defended literary readings of this poem. This text's opening sentence hwaet! (rhymes with "cat"), was translated as "So!" by an Irish poet in 1999. Seamus Heaney once translated, for 10 points, what poem, in which the title character battles Grendel and a dragon?
Beowulf  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161485-)
6. This author admitted to liking the editor "Dick Steele" despite his inadequacies in a lecture from his The English Humorists of the Eighteenth Century. In one of his novels, the title character befriends Joseph Addison; that novel ends with the protagonist marrying his foster mother Lady Castlewood and moving to Virginia. Another novel by this author begins with the chapter "Before the Curtain," which uses (*) puppets to depict its principal characters, such as one that is pursued by the Marquis of Steyne. This author of Henry Esmond wrote a novel in which William Dobbin and George Osborne vie for the hand of Amelia Sedley. For 10 points, name this 19th-century author who depicted the Napoleonic era in Vanity Fair.
William Thackeray [or William Makepeace Thackeray]  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161512-)
12. One of this author's novels opens on the 81st birthday of its narrator, who is informed that an archbishop wants him to help canonize a man named Carlo Campanati. Another novel by this author contains a scene in which the protagonist reads aloud the words "I raise my sword-pen" and "to ooze juicily at the last round the bearded lips of God" from a manuscript authored by the fictional author F. Alexander. This author depicted the life of the writer Kenneth Toomey in Earthly (*) Powers. In another of his books, the protagonist goes to Korova to drink "milk-plus," and later has the Ludovico technique performed on him when he is arrested. For 10 points, name this author who depicted the miscreant Alex and his gang of "droogs" in his novel A Clockwork Orange.
Anthony Burgess [or John Anthony Burgess Wilson]  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161531-)
10. A character in one of these places observes a poster with the caption "Safety First," which she rejects, instead saying "Goodness, Truth, and Beauty, come first." That character in one of these places nudges Rose Stanley into having an affair with the artist Teddy Lloyd. In another novel, Bitzer is praised in one of these places for calling a horse "Quadruped Graminivorous," while Sissy Jupe's definition is summarily rejected. The ridiculously-named (*) M'Choakumchild ("m-CHOKE-um-child") works at one of these places in the novel Hard Times. For her fascist sympathies, Miss Jean Brodie is fired from her job at one of these places in a novel by Muriel Spark. For 10 points, in a novel by Thomas Hughes, Tom Brown is bullied by Flashman in what sort of place that he attends?
schools [accept high schools or elementary schools or boarding schools or middle schools; do not accept or prompt on colleges]  &lt;Bentley, Literature - British&gt;
5

161533-)
12. A tract by this writer suggests that it is not naturally grown fruits but those "we have bastardized ... to please our corrupt taste" that we have labelled as "wild." Shakespeare likely cribbed a speech from The Tempest using John Florio's translation of this author's piece about three people brought to King Charles IX's court. This writer joked "but hold! They do not wear trousers" at the end of a piece contrasting the barbaric practice of torture with (*) Brazilian natives who only eat dead men. This author discusses topics "Of Liars" and "Of Ancient Customs" in a book published in 1580 that includes his piece "Of Cannibals," and which created a new genre of expository writing named for the French word for "attempts." For 10 points, name this French author of the Essays.
Michel de Montaigne  &lt;Smith, Literature - European&gt;
5

161555-)
13. This author called the human heart the "mind's Bible" in a letter analogizing the world to "a vale of soul-making." The critic John Gibson Lockhart wrote "it is better to be a starving apothecary than a starving poet" after reading one of this writer's poems mentioning an object that "will never Pass into nothingness; but still will keep a bower quiet for us." This writer praised Shakespeare as "the Man of Achievement" for his negative (*) capability. The forger Thomas Chatterton was the dedicatee of a four-book poem by this author, which begins by describing "a thing of beauty is a joy forever." A poem about a mythological shepherd named "Endymion" was written by, for 10 points, what Romantic poet who declared "beauty is truth, truth beauty" in "Ode on a Grecian Urn"?
John Keats  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161598-)
14. In early editions, this character's name was listed as "Corambis." In one scene, this man entreats "costly thy habit as thy purse can buy" for "the apparel oft proclaims the man." In a long speech, he notes that "borrowing dulls the edge of husbandry" before telling his son "my blessing season in thee." This character employs a servant named Reynaldo, who spies on his son for him. This character's final lines are "Oh, I am slain," which he utters after the protagonist (*) stabs him when he is hiding behind an arras. This man's advice includes the line "to thine own self be true," as well as the observation that "brevity is the soul of wit." He warns King Claudius that his own "noble son is mad." For 10 points, name this father of Laertes and Ophelia, a long-winded advisor in the play Hamlet.
Polonius  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161623-)
18. One novel by this author describes a wych ("wich") elm tree whose bark, which has pigs' teeth embedded into it, could be used to cure toothache. A character goes to the title location of that novel by this writer because she believes her sister is mentally ill, but is surprised to learn that she is pregnant after living with Monica in Munich for 8 months. Charles Wilcox uses a sword to beat Leonard (*) Bast into a bookcase in a novel by this writer whose epigraph is "only connect." Another novel by this writer depicts the aftermath of an encounter at the Malabar Caves, during which Adela Quested accuses Dr. Aziz of rape. For 10 points, name this British novelist who wrote Howards End and A Passage to India.
E. M. Forster [or Edward Morgan Forster]  &lt;Rosenberg, Literature - British&gt;
5

161626-)
21. One poem about this event asks "but who can talk of give and take" after "sixteen men were shot?". Another poem asks of the participants in this event "if excess of love / Bewildered them till they died?" A poem about this event from Michael Robartes and the Dancer centers on the image of a stone "in the midst of it all" to which "Hearts with one purpose alone" are "enchanted." The death of a "drunken, vainglorious lout" during this event is contrasted with that of a (*) woman who spent "her nights in argument" until her "voice grew shrill." A poem about this event imagines that all is "changed, changed utterly" and that a "terrible beauty is born." For 10 points, what 1916 rebellion was commemorated in a W.B. Yeats poem?
Easter Rising [accept Easter Rebellion; prompt on just Easter]  &lt;Smith, Literature - British&gt;     NSC 2019 - Round 15 - Bonuses
5

161640-)
14. This character is told "there are no flies or mosquitoes to sting you," we got "rid of them centuries ago" after telling another character a story about the Girl of Mátaski. This character is shown copies of The Imitation of Christ and The Varieties of Religious Experience by a leader who admits to having an archive of old pornographic books. After a long conversation in which this character is told "art, science, and religion" were gotten rid of years ago, he moves to a (*) lighthouse where he later hangs himself. After he rebels with Helmholtz Watson and Bernard Marx against the "World State," Mustapha Mond sentences him to exile. For 10 points, name this character called the "savage" in Aldous Huxley's Brave New World.
John the Savage  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161665-)
18. This character's creator wrote she possessed a "mother-rival," but even if the "mother-rival" died, "there would still have been Milton and the Universal Alphabet." A man who stuffs a chocolate in this character's mouth also eats half of it to prove it is not poisoned. This character's father does not recognize her in a kimono after accepting five pounds for her. After throwing a pair of slippers at a man's face, this daughter of Alfred expresses a desire to leave (*) Wimpole Street and marry Freddy Eynsford-Hill. This woman, the subject of a bet suggested by Colonel Pickering, begins a play by selling flowers in Covent Garden. For 10 points, name this working-class woman who is taught by Henry Higgins to speak like a duchess in the play Pygmalion.
Eliza Doolittle [prompt on Doolittle]  &lt;Mao, Literature - British&gt;
5

161668-)
21. This poet repeated the refrain "gentlemen" several times in a poem that declares "Pythagoras, Thucydides, / Herodotus, and Homer ... Burnt brightlier towards their setting-day." Another poem by this author of "An Ancient to Ancients" is set during a time when "tangled bine-stems scored the sky / like strings of broken lyres." That poem by him compares "the land's features" to the Century's "corpse outleant." A "happy good-night air" is possessed by the title (*) bird, who provides "some blessed Hope, whereof he knew" in this author's poem "The Darkling Thrush." In one of his novels, Angel Clare observes a black flag signifying the death of the title character, who is killed for stabbing Alec. For 10 points, name this Victorian novelist who wrote Tess of the d'Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy  &lt;Bentley, Literature - British&gt;     NSC 2019 - Round 17 - Bonuses
5

161679-)
11. This character's question "how did you find the quarrel on the seventh cause?" leads a jester to describe his use of the "Retort Courteous," the "Quip Modest," and the "Reply Churlish" techniques to criticize a beard. A speech by this character mentions a soldier, "full of strange oaths," who seeks the "bubble reputation, even in the cannon's mouth." In the final scene of a play, this character takes up Duke Senior's former residence in a forest. This character describes (*) man as shifting into "lean and slipper'd pantaloon" in a speech ending with the image of "mere oblivions, sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything." For 10 points, what melancholy character from As You Like It likens "all the world" to a stage in a speech about man?
Jaques ("JAY-kweez") or ("zhahk") [accept Melancholy Jaques]  &lt;Jose, Literature - British&gt;
5

161701-)
12. This character is imagined to have once been married to a beekeeper named Pietro in a novel about her by Lois Leveen. In the third act, this character observes "There's no trust, No faith, no honesty in men; all are perjur'd / All foresworn, all naught, all dissemblers." This character says that she would be willing to bet fourteen teeth about another character's age. This woman gave birth to a child named (*) Susan who died in infancy. This character repeatedly calls a day "woeful" and "lamentable" when she thinks that another character has died. As a messenger, she tells Romeo that Juliet is a Capulet, and later tells Juliet that Romeo has killed Tybalt. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare character whose title refers to the fact that she raised Juliet.
Nurse  &lt;Reinstein, Literature - British&gt;
5

161726-)
16. One character who moves to this city often cuts the dead skin corns off her husband Chanu's feet. Another resident of this city marries a woman whose top row of teeth are knocked out after she gets in a scooter accident. In this city, a daughter named Irie is uncertain which of the brothers Millat and Magid fathered her child. This city is the setting of Monica Ali's Brick Lane, as well as a novel depicting Samad Iqbal and Archie Jones's friendship, (*) White Teeth. At the opening of a 1950 novel, a group of children leave this city to stay at the country home of a professor implied to be Digory Kirke. In The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe, the Pevensie children go to the countryside to escape, for 10 points, what city that was besieged during The Blitz?
London  &lt;Dees, Literature - British&gt;
5

161736-)
5. In one poem by this author, a goddess commands "Break this heavy chain / That does freeze my bones around!" after she arises from the "darkness dread &amp; drear." Another poem by this author centers on a speaker who "sunned" the title object "with smiles / And with soft deceitful wiles," and whose wrath grew after he was angry with his foe and did not tell him. A third poem by this writer asks "And what shoulder, and what art, / Could twist the sinews of (*) thy heart? " This man's poems "Earth's Answer" and "The Poison Tree" appear in the same collection as a poem that asks "Did he who make the lamb make thee?" and "who could frame thy fearful symmetry?" For 10 points, name this poet whose collection Songs of Experience includes "The Tyger."
William Blake  &lt;Alston, Literature - British&gt;
5

161754-)
2. One of this author's characters claims to have a leopard cub in her luggage, to the shock of Mrs Quabarl. That character created by this author has Claude and Wilfrid reenact the Rape of the Sabine Women for their history lesson. In the backstory to another work from his collection Beasts and Super-Beasts, this author wrote of three snipe-shooters who came home after they allegedly drowned in a bog. This author of "The (*) Schartz-Metterklume Method" wrote a story in which Conrad invents a religion centering on his pole-cat. In another story by him, Vera spins a yarn that makes Framton Nuttel run out of the Sappleton house because, for Vera, "Romance at short notice was her specialty." For 10 points, name this author of "Sredni Vashtar" and "The Open Window."
Saki [accept H.H. Munro; or Hector Hugh Munro]  &lt;Smith, Literature - British&gt;
5

161782-)
9. This novel's conclusion begins with a description of a day "when the great lilacs and laburnums in the old-fashioned gardens showed their golden and purple wealth." After this novel's climax, one man says he will "pass for childless now" against his wish. One character in this novel is revealed, fourteen chapters after he last appears, to have died in a quarry during a rainstorm. The protagonist of this novel seeks help in the socially-segregated (*) Rainbow Inn. This novel's plot begins when its protagonist is framed for theft from his congregation at Lantern Yard. After having his own gold stolen, this work's protagonist eventually finds happiness with his adoptive daughter Eppie. For 10 points, name this novel by George Eliot, titled for a "weaver of Raveloe."
Silas Marner  &lt;Boyd, Literature - British&gt;
5

161800-)
6. One novel by this author closes with the main character giving the fate of Madame Walraven, and suggests that the "destroying angel of tempest" ruined Emanuel. A subplot in a novel by this author traces the courtship of Ginevra Fanshawe and a man who called himself Dr. John. A novel by this author set in the fictional kingdom of Labassecour centers on a woman hired by the headmistress Madame Beck, Lucy (*) Snowe. In another novel by this writer, the protagonist hears "mirthless" laughter that comes from a "secret inner cabinet" guarded by the servant Grace Poole. That novel by this author of Villette is named for a woman who rejects St. John Rivers’s marriage proposal and who later married Mr. Rochester. For 10 points, name this author of Jane Eyre.
Charlotte Bronte [prompt on Currer Bell; prompt on Bronte]
5

161818-)
3. Juliet Dusinberre and Jonathan Bate asserted that this quality was possessed by a poem whose speaker prays that the addressee "like the dial day by day" will "lead the seasons on". Eric Sams posited an unusually expansive definition of this quality, expanding it to include a work whose title prince of Troynovant turns back an invasion led by the Scythian king Humber. Six works, including (*) Locrine, were attributed with this quality by Philip Chetwinde, while Fair Em and Mucedorus were assigned it by the cover of a book in Charles II's library. Henry Ireland asserted that Vortigern and Rowena had this quality before he was exposed as a forger. For 10 points, identify this status often attributed to various anonymous 17th-century plays that didn't appear in the First Folio.
being written by William Shakespeare &lt;Carson&gt;
5

161830-)
15. PARTNER AND POSSIBLY PROPS REQUIRED. This action's first appearance in fiction was in the Galaxy magazine short story "Captain Tom's Fright," though it achieved much more prominence thanks to Augustin Daly's play Under The Gaslight. An action similar to this one carried out by the Black Legion likely caused the death of Earl Little, the father of Malcolm X. Taylor Swift successfully escapes from a situation caused by this action in the video for the 2010 song "Mean." This action is often done to (*) Nell Fenwick, who is invariably saved from it by a horse named Horse and its rider, Dudley Do-Right. For 10 points, do your best Snidely Whiplash impression and create this damsel-in-distress situation involving an oncoming train.
tying someone to railroad tracks [or, in the case of Earl Little, streetcar tracks] &lt;Carson&gt;
5

161844-)
10. A character created by this author punishes Abel Whittle for coming to work late by making him work without his pants. That same character later asks that “no man remember me” in his will because he sold his family for five guineas. In a novel by this author, Little Father Time hangs himself because he and his siblings “are too menny” when his mother, (*) Sue Bridehead, tells him she is having another child. In another Wessex novel by this author, the titular heroine is rejected by Angel Clare and is executed at Stonehenge Castle after killing Alec. For 10 points, name this English author of The Mayor of Casterbridge, Jude the Obscure, and Tess of the d’Urbervilles.
Thomas Hardy &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;   Bonuses
3

161862-)
18. A poem addressed to this man depicts the “always coming on / the always rising of the night.” The speaker of a poem by this author finds “fair quiet” and “innocence” in the title place, exclaiming “No white nor red was ever seen / So am’rous as this lovely green.” The speaker of another poem imagines finding rubies by the Indian Ganges’ side and declares a (*) “hundred years should go to praise / thine eyes.” That poem describes a “vegetable love” that would grow “vaster than empires and more slow” if not for “time’s wingèd chariot hurrying near,” and begins “had we but world enough and time.” For 10 points, name this metaphysical poet of “The Garden” and “To His Coy Mistress.”
Andrew Marvell &lt;Non-epic poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161870-)
6. In one play by this man, Lady Hunstanton fears that English “clever talk” will shock the Puritan Hester; a character later kisses her without consent, angering his son Gerald. In another play, Margaret threatens to slap a party guest with the title object for supposedly having an affair with her husband; that guest saves her from disgrace at the home of (*) Lord Darlington and is revealed to be her mother. Another play opens with the servant Lane preparing sandwiches for Aunt Augusta and Cecily Cardew. In that play, Algernon and Jack woo their lovers by pretending to have the title name. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of Lady Windermere’s Fan and The Importance of Being Earnest.
Oscar Wilde &lt;Drama, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161885-)
1. A poem by this author states “of my threescore years and ten, / Twenty will not come again” and observes a tree “wearing white for Eastertide.” Another of his poems ends “I tell the tale that I heard told. Mithridates, he died old.” This author of “Loveliest of Trees, the Cherry Now” wrote a poem criticizing some verse that “gives a chap the belly -ache”; that poem begins (*) “you eat your victuals fast enough.” This poet states “silence sounds no worse than cheers / After earth has stopped the ears” in a poem that recalls “the time you won your town the race.” For 10 points, name this poet of A Shropshire Lad, which contains “Terence, this is stupid stuff” and “To an Athlete Dying Young.”
Alfred Edward Housman &lt;Non-epic Poetry EL&gt; &lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161896-)
12. In this work, Lady Bellaston conspires to have Lord Fellamar rape a character so she can have that woman’s love interest to herself. This work’s protagonist befriends the gamekeeper Black George and has a relationship with his daughter Molly Seagrim. In this novel, Mr. Fitzpatrick walks in on a character having an affair with Mrs. Waters, who is actually (*) Jenny Jones and is suspected to be his mother. In this work, Reverend Thwackum assists Master Bilfil in his rivalry with the protagonist. The title character marries Sophia Western after discovering that he is Squire Allworthy’s nephew in, for 10 points, what picaresque novel by Henry Fielding?
The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161938-)
14. Sean Wright’s Enter the Lion inspired two novels about a man with this last name by Kareem Abdul Jabbar and Anna Waterhouse. In one story, a character with this surname who earlier co-founded the Diogenes Club helps track down the Bruce-Partington Plans. A character with this last name was resurrected in “The Adventure of the Empty House” after public dismay with his apparent death at the (*) Reichenbach Falls in “The Final Problem”; That character began working alongside a veteran of the Second Anglo-Afghan War following his move to 221B Baker Street. For 10 points, give this last name shared by Mycroft and Sherlock in the detective stories of Arthur Conan Doyle.
Holmes [accept Mycroft Holmes or Sherlock Holmes] &lt;Short Fiction/Other, EL&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161940-)
16 . At the end of a work by this man, a strawberry-shaped birthmark miraculously vanishes from a preacher’s cheek. In that novel, Sarah leaves Maurice Bendrix when a V-1 rocket destroys his flat. One of this man’s characters meets the beautiful Phuong at a dance at the Arc-en-Ciel. In that work, Alden Pyle is killed in a plot involving the journalist (*) Thomas Fowler. One of his characters learns Morse Code from Coral Fellows and looks for his daughter Brigida; that work is set in a state where religion is illegal and sees the mestizo betray the “whiskey priest” to the Lieutenant. For 10 points, name this author of The End of the Affair, The Quiet American, and The Power and the Glory.
Graham Greene &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161955-)
11. This poet describes how the title object “grew both day and night/ till it bore an apple bright” in his poem “The Poison Tree.” In another one of his poems, he describes how “the hapless Soldiers sigh/ Runs in blood down Palace walls.” This poet also described how “little Tom Dacre” is sold before he could cry (*) “ ‘weep! ‘weep!” He also asks “What immortal hand or eye/could frame thy fearful symmetry” in a poem about the title animal, and describes it “burning bright/In the forests of the night.” For 10 points, name this poet who included “The Chimney Sweeper” and “The Tyger” in his “Songs of Innocence and Experience.”
William Blake &lt;Non-epic Poetry, MX&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161975-)
11. One of this poet’s speakers “sought a theme and sought for it in vain” and lies down “in the foul rag and bone shop of the heart.” One of his poems mourns “a drunken, vainglorious lout…who had done most bitter wrong”; that poem begins by recalling the exchange of “polite meaningless words” and repeats the refrain “a (*) terrible beauty is born.” This poet of “The Circus Animal’s Desertion” declares “the ceremony of innocence is drowned” in a poem that illustrates “a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi.” That poem describes a “rough beast” that “slouches towards Bethlehem to be born.” For 10 points, name this Irish poet of “Easter, 1916” and “The Second Coming.”
William Butler Yeats &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

161996-)
12. This work’s protagonist corrects her opinion of an unpleasant character after meeting the servant Mrs. Reynolds. In this work, Caroline praises the shy Georgiana for her piano skills in an attempt to woo her love interest. In this novel, Lady Catherine de Bourgh is idolized by the “silly man” Mr. Collins, who shocks everyone by his betrothal to (*) Charlotte Lucas shortly after proposing to her friend. This novel sees Wickham elope with Lydia for her money, and begins by declaring “a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife” before introducing Bingley. For 10 points, name this novel ending with Elizabeth Bennet’s marriage to Mr. Darcy, by Jane Austen.
Pride and Prejudice &lt;Long Fiction, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162003-)
19. In a work by this author, a character asserts “All the wise world is little else” but “parasites, or sub-parasites.” In that play, a woman’s husband makes her do everything backwards after she throws her kerchief to Scoto of Mantua. In another of his works, the legal clerk Dapper undergoes humiliating rituals to meet the “Queen of Fairy,” only to be conned by (*) Dol Common and Face. In another play, Peregrine tricks Sir Politic-Would-Be into a tortoise shell; that play’s protagonist is betrayed by Mosca after attempting to rape Celia, and is accosted by Voltore, Corvino, and Corbaccio for his inheritance. For 10 points, name this playwright of The Alchemist and Volpone.
Ben Jonson &lt;Drama, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162017-)
13. In one poem, this character watches waterspouts like “glass chimneys” and comments “beautiful, yes, but not much company.” As an old man, this character encounters Susan Barton as she searches for her kidnapped daughter. That character, whose story is reworked in a J. M. Coetzee [[“COOT-zee”]] work, appears in an earlier novel in which he is taken to Sallee [[“sah-LAY”]] by pirates before escaping with (*) Xury. At the end of that novel, this character fights off wolves while crossing the Pyrenees. This character sees footprints that he thinks are the Devil’s, but are actually left by a cannibal named Friday. For 10 points, name this castaway on the “Island of Despair,” the protagonist of a Daniel Defoe novel.
Robinson Crusoe [accept either underlined portion] &lt;Long Fiction, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162033-)
9. In one scene, this character declares “farewell” to the “pride, pomp, and circumstance of glorious war!” In one soliloquy, this character’s enemy declares “I will wear my heart upon my sleeve / For daws to peck at: I am not what I am.” This man defends himself against accusations that he is “making the beast with two backs” by using witchcraft to seduce (*) Brabantio’s daughter. He is later angered over the loss of a strawberry- embroidered handkerchief, which he sees Cassio give the prostitute Bianca. For 10 points, name this character who is convinced of Desdemona’s infidelity by Iago, the title “Moor of Venice” of a Shakespearean tragedy.
Othello [prompt on the Moor of Venice before mention] &lt;Drama, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162055-)
11. A work in this genre calls on “lorn Urania…with veilèd eyes” and extols a soul that “beacons from the abode where the Eternal are.” Another poem in this genre addresses a “strong son of God, immortal love” and depicts Nature as “red in tooth and claw.” Another poem imagines “in this neglected spot...some heart once pregnant with celestial fire” and declares “The (*) paths of glory lead but to the grave”; that poem mourns “some Cromwell guiltless of his country’s blood” and begins “the curfew tolls the knell of parting day.” For 10 points, “In Memoriam A.H.H.” and a poem “Written in a Country Churchyard” by Thomas Gray are in what poetic form, usually a lament for the dead?
elegy [prompt on lament before mention, accept “Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard”] &lt;Non-epic Poetry, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162062-)
18. This author describes a wound that “seemed both sore and sad / To every Christian eye” in his “Elegy on the Death of a Mad Dog.” That poem appears in a work in which Ephraim Jenkinson swindles Moses out of a horse for green spectacles. In one work by this man, Constance steals jewels to elope with Hastings; that play is subtitled “Mistakes of a Night” and sees (*) Kate Hardcastle dress as a maid to seduce Charles Marlow. Squire Thornhill attempts to stage a mock wedding with Sophia in one of this author’s novels, which ends with the marriage of Arabella Wilmot and George Primrose. For 10 points, name this author of She Stoops to Conquer and The Vicar of Wakefield.
Oliver Goldsmith &lt;Short Fiction/Other, OC&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162087-)
3. In one play by this man, Beth shares stories to Duff about her past romantic episodes and romantic reverie. Another of his characters admires the stripes on crockery while the toilet refuses to flush. This author of Landscape created a character who is raped when the lights go out during Blind Man’s Bluff; that play’s protagonist is taken away from Peter and Meg Bole’s boardinghouse by (*) Goldberg and McCann. In another play by this man, two characters argue over the meaning of the phrase “light the kettle” after one of them receives some matches. That play’s ending suggests that Ben will shoot Gus. For 10 points, name this playwright of The Birthday Party and The Dumb Waiter.
Harold Pinter &lt;Drama, AK&gt;&lt;ed. OC&gt;
3

162331-)
This entertainer performed a monologue about a man who produces an orange carrot, then transforms it into a white rabbit, after some servants request a magic trick. That story by this person continues to describe the career of Jesus and his assistant, Sharon, who are literally crucified by their audience. Another character created by this entertainer orders male adulterers to “form a line in front of that small guillotine” before announcing that all Christians are going to hell because the (*) Jews were right. This comedian promised to keep things “informal as well as infernal” while playing the role of a devil named Toby. For 10 points, name this British comedian whose television roles include four men named Blackadder and the slightly unsettling Mr. Bean.
Rowan Atkinson
9

162392-)
A fictional example of these beings was the oldest known worshipper of the dark god Setebos. Musical numbers about these beings, such as “Come Away, Come Away,” were written for a play about them by Thomas Middleton. One of these beings vows to sink a ship after being refused some (*) chestnuts by a sailor’s wife. Another of these beings identifies a visitor with the declaration that “by the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this way comes.” Fictional examples of these beings include Sycorax and three “weird sisters” who predicted that Macbeth would be Thane of Cawdor. For 10 points, name these characters who, in Shakespeare plays, might use ingredients like eye of newt in their potions.
witches Note: while Caliban is also a worshipper of Setebos, he specifically mentions in The Tempest that Setebos is “my dam’s god,” i.e. introduced to him by his mother, the witch Sycorax (Act 1, Scene 2).
9

162406-)
In a discussion of divine perfection, this thinker recounted a childhood experience of not telling their mother about a toothache until it was very bad. After talking to a fighter pilot about religion, this thinker compared looking at a map of the Atlantic Ocean to learning theology, as a student doing either would gain the experience of others. This thinker compared humans doing things for God to a child buying their father a birthday present with (*) sixpence that they had previously borrowed. According to this writer, Jesus must have been “the Son of God, or else a madman or something worse” in this man’s namesake trilemma. For 10 points, name this author of Mere Christianity who is probably more famous for The Chronicles of Narnia.
C. S. Lewis [or Clive Staples Lewis]
9

162410-)
This author imagined people “moustached in flowered frocks” gathered to watch a man with “deep American voice” attempt some miraculous cures. This author wondered, “what remains when disbelief has gone?” after donating an Irish sixpence and reading the words “Here endeth” too loudly. This author, who called religion a “vast moth-eaten musical (*) brocade,” wrote about “sweating in the dark about hell … having to hide what you think of the priest” while other people “go down the long slide like free bloody birds.” A notoriously profane poem by this author ends by instructing the reader to “get out as early as you can, and don’t have any kids yourself.” For 10 points, name this cynical English poet who wrote “Faith Healing,” “Church Going,” “High Windows,” and “This Be The Verse”
Philip Larkin [or Philip Arthur Larkin]
9

162440-)
This author wrote a poem in which a man encounters the grave of a virgin and envisions "Death and this mad heroine" meeting "on a mortal wall." One of this poet's speakers claims that he is "dumb to tell the hanging man/How of my clay is made that hangman's line.” That speaker also says that “the force that drives [his] green age" is his destroyer. The line "after the first death, there is no other" ends a poem by this man about the (*) Blitz, which he also wrote about in "Deaths and Entrances." The speaker of a poem by this author of "Death Shall Have No Dominion" notes that "grave men, near death...see with blinding sight" This poet's most famous work is a villanelle that urges men to "rage against the dying of the light." For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of "Do Not Go Gentle Into That Good Night."
Dylan Thomas
7

162466-)
This novel notes that "camaraderie...superadded to love between the sexes" is "the only love which is strong as death." A gathering place in this novel, Warren's Malthouse, sells ale in a big mug called a "God-forgive-me." At the end of its first chapter, the male protagonist says "Vanity" is the greatest fault of its female protagonist, whom he had seen sitting on a wagon while she was looking at herself in a mirror. That character in this novel later erases the words "and (*) child" from the coffin of Fanny Robin. Near the end of this novel, a man thought drowned crashes a Christmas party and is shot by William Boldwood. This novel ends with the marriage of Gabriel Oak and Bathsheba Everdene. For 10 points, name this Thomas Hardy novel whose title comes from Thomas Gray's "Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard."
Far From the Madding Crowd
7

162471-)
The speaker of a poem by this author wonders if "Anyone looked at me, forty years back / And thought, That'll be the life" and eventually contemplates how the "deep blue air" is "nowhere, and is endless." In another poem by this author, the speaker donates an "Irish sixpence" and comments how "dubious women to make their children touch a particular stone." In another poem by this author about a funerary structure, the speaker describes two figures in a (*) "supine stationary voyage" who prove "What will survive of us is love." This poet of "An Arundel Tomb" wrote about "a serious house on serious earth" in a poem about a title building where the speaker is "sure there is nothing going on." For 10 points, what poet of "Church Going" wrote about how "they fuck you up, your mum and dad" in "This be the Verse?"
Philip Larkin
7

162502-)
One character in this novel owns a copy of Gray's Anatomy that he compulsively turns to the page about the vagina. In this novel, one character becomes the owner of a factory that manufactures fake chocolate bars called "Amo." As a young girl, the narrator of this novel wrote a play titled "The Trials of Arabella." Another character in this novel is revealed to have died of sepsis on the beaches of (*) Dunkirk. In this novel's final section, the narrator reveals that she had invented a happy ending for her sister, who died in the Blitz, and her former lover. After accidentally giving a vulgar letter to a girl and being caught having sex with Cecilia in the library, Robbie Turner is accused of raping Lola in this novel. For 10 points, identify this novel about the author Briony Tallis that was written by Ian McEwan
Atonement
7

162508-)
In a poem titled for these people, the speaker reassures himself by noting that "calm seas often follow after the/squalling of a storm" after advising the addressee that some "thoughts should/not be in your head." That poem, whose fragmentary form was published in 2014 after being discovered by Dirk Obbink, ends by discussing how "this heavy-weighing depression we shall/lift up (*) ours and stand" once the speaker learns about the safety of one of these people. In another poem about one of these people, the speaker decries how "death has ravish'd half myself in thee" before praying that that figure shall "Receive the gifts, our fathers' ancient rite" and ends bidding him "hail and farewell!" Catullus 101 is addressed to a person of, for 10 points, what type, which include Kharaxos and Larikhos with respect to the author in a poem by Sappho?
brothers [prompt on siblings] Bonuses:
7

162515-)
The waiter Gennaro dies after trying to release the boy Eustace into the wild after Eustace was visited by the god Pan in this man's short story "The Story of a Panic." A science fiction story by this author, features Kuno telling his mother the title phrase before civilization ends. The protagonist of another of his stories returns to his deceased brother after being offered the choice to go through two gates following his crossing of the title boundary. Along with "The Machine Stops" and (*) "The Other Side of the Hedge," a story by this author features Dante saying "I am the food and not the life" to Mr. Bons, who dies after stepping out of the title vehicle, "The Celestial Omnibus." In a novel by this man, Lucy Honeychurch and George witness a murder before eventually getting married. For 10 points, name this author of A Room With a View.
Edward Morgan Forster [or E.M. Forster]
7

162533-)
Two characters in this play met years prior after a colleague discovered a short story with a 90% chance it was written by D.H. Lawrence. The stage directions for this play's second scene state that "Something needs to be done about this" while describing its setting. In this play, a woman theorizes that a man she is looking for owned a tortoise named Plautus. In this play, the poet of "the Couch of Eros" is proved by Hannah to not have killed in a duel by (*) Lord Byron, contrary to the belief of Bernard Nightingale. While working as a math tutor, a man in this play is asked "What is carnal embrace?" The final scene of this play ends with Thomasina Coverly waltzing with the hermit of Sidley Park, her tutor Septimus Hodge. For 10 points, identify this play set in both 1809 and the present day by Tom Stoppard.
Arcadia
7

162564-)
In a play about this character, her lover cheats on her by wooing another woman on the grounds of the Whitehall Palace which is guarded by Yeomen Warders. In one poem, this character is compared to a usurer who "put'st forth all to use" while the speaker mourns the loss of a friend "through my unkind abuse." Aline Florio may be the inspiration for this character, the subject of a 1910 play by George Bernard Shaw. This character is introduced in a poem in which her eyes are compared to ravens. The speaker of another poem points out this character "As his triumphant prize" after stating (*) "Love is too young to know what conscience is." In a satirical poem, this woman is described as having hair like "black wires" and breath that reeks. For 10 points, identify this character contrasted by critics with the Fair Youth in Shakespeare's Sonnets 127 through 150.
the Dark Lady
7

162569-)
To announce that one of these figures is safe, the Bard Bracy is sent to the castle of Roland de Vaux of Tryermaine by the father of a "lovely lady" who prays in the moonlight. Another of these figures creates a hailstorm upon her discovery by an unnamed narrator; that story may be a deleted first chapter of a novel in which one of these figures is killed with both a kukri and Bowie knife. The final story of In a (*) Glass Darkly is about one of these figures named Mircalla Karnstein. After fleeing from five warriors, one of these figures sleeps next to Christabel in a Samuel Taylor Coleridge poem. The most notable of these figures is killed at his castle in the Carpathian Mountains by Jonathan Harker. For 10 points, identify this creature exemplified by the title character in Dracula.
vampire
7

162593-)
Pablo Neruda, in The Yellow Heart, mentions seeing a "surviving" copy of this poet's works next to a destroyed book by Cervantes. This non-English speaking poet is frequently misquoted in the "Blow-Up" section of Yo-Yo Boing!. The speaker of a poem about this man’s tomb declares that "We breathe in always though it bring us death." T.S. Eliot alludes to this poet with the phrase "Unreal city," and he quotes this poet in the final line of The Waste Land's first section. This poet added six suppressed poems and a (*) "tableaux" to a collection that includes a description of a "comic" and "ugly" bird with large wings. In the opening to that collection, this poet calls the subject a hypocrite before addressing the reader as "My twin! My brother!" For 10 points, identify this poet of Les Fleurs du Mal.
Charles Baudelaire
7

162600-)
The protagonist of this novel is beaten by a young man whose vegetables he had eaten. In that same section of this novel, it is revealed that a bandit was nailed to a wall by a man he tried to rob, and then later committed suicide after his arm was cut off. In Book Nine of this novel, a tale is relayed of how the slave Myrmex is to watch over his master's wife but is then bribed and accused of stealing shoes. The protagonist of this novel eats a (*) crown of roses to return to human form in its last section. This novel also contains the earliest known depiction of the Cupid and Psyche story. The protagonist of this novel, notably translated by Robert Graves, is from Madaurus and joins the cult of the god Isis at its end. For 10 points, name this Roman novel about Lucius who accidentally transforms into the title creature, that was written by Apuleius.
The Golden Ass [or Asinus aureus or The Metamorphoses of Apuleius]
7

162606-)
Battle plans are compared to seduction in this novel as a widowed woman goes after a character whose friend tells a sexual story about a Beguine nun. One character in this novel, whose real name is James Butler, received the nickname "Trim"while in the military, and scribbles a squiggly line with his cane in the air. One character in this novel "whistles (*) Lillibullero" during a strange argument about how babies were frequently damaged before the advent of modern medicine. A groin injury is sustained at the Siege of Namur by Uncle Toby in this novel. It isn't A Sentimental Journey, but the character Parson Yorick also appears in this novel. At his birth, the narrator of this novel had his nose crushed by Dr. Slop. For 10 points, identify this nine-volume novel about the life of a long-winded English guy, written by Laurence Sterne.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentleman
7

162610-)
This poet identified "the worst pang that sorrow ever bore" as "Knowing my heart's best treasure was no more: / That neither present time, nor years unborn / Could to my sight that heavenly face restore." The title girl of one of his poems – who some say "sings a solitary song / That whistles in the wind" – shares her first name with a woman whose death he called "The difference to me." The same woman "seemed a thing that could not feel / The (*) touch of earthly years" in this man's poem "A slumber did my spirit seal." In another poem, he wrote about lying on his couch "In vacant or in pensive mood," the "inward eye / Which is the bliss of solitude," and the title golden flowers. For 10 points, name this author of the "Lucy" poems and "I wandered lonely as a cloud," also called "Daffodils."
William Wordsworth
7

162639-)
This author wrote an essay from the perspective of an alternate historian within an alternate history in which the Confederates won the Civil War for the anthology If It Had Happened Otherwise. In 2006, Andrew Roberts wrote a continuation of this author's most famous historical work, which included volumes such as The Age of Revolution and The Birth of (*) Britain . This author's experiences as a war correspondent and army officer inspired his memoirs The River War and From London to Ladysmith, via Pretoria. This author wrote a noted biography of his ancestor, the Duke of Marlborough. For 10 points, name this author of A History of the English-Speaking Peoples, whose Nobel Prize citation mentioned his speeches such as "We shall fight in the fields" and "This was their finest hour."
Winston Leonard Spencer-Churchill
7

162647-)
After her father is accused of murder, a girl stands at this location "unable to see into the vast blank misery of a life suspected." In that novel, Gaffer Hexam makes his living by stealing from people he encounters at this location. A man sees "gleams of varnished spirits" from this location and notes that dark air over Gravesend is "condensed into a mournful gloom." A trip to this location with the dog Montmorency is inspired by the title characters claiming that they are overworked. Multiple corpses, including that of John Harmon, are found at this location in Dickens' (*) Our Mutual Friend. In 1889, Jerome K. Jerome published an account of traversing this body of water. Heart of Darkness begins on a boat travelling past "the biggest, and the greatest, town on earth" through this body of water. For 10 points, name this river frequently mentioned in British literature.
River Thames [Prompt on London]
7

162657-)
A semi-autobiographical character created by this author dies on a Scottish island in the dystopian finale to a 5-book series. One character created by this author has an affair with a psychiatrist named Paul until he moves with his wife to Nigeria. Another novel by this author of The Four Gated City takes its title from The Waste Land and is told as a flashback after Moses kills his white employer, Mary (*) Turner, for money. In another novel by this author, the protagonist lives off money earned for her book Frontiers of War. This author of the series Children of Violence wrote a novel with a frame story entitled Free Women, and focuses on the "red," "black," "blue," and "yellow" notebooks of Anna Wulf. For 10 points, name this author of The Grass is Singing and The Golden Notebook.
Doris Lessing
7

162675-)
In one delightfully savage poem, this man wrote "The indigested vomit of the sea/ fell to the Dutch by just propriety." Another of his poems contains a refrain referencing a woman named Juliana who destroys him and his thoughts when she comes. This poet wrote that "These holy mathematics can/ in ev'ry figure equal man" in a stanza referencing the "quadrature" of a (*) house in which he was working as a tutor. The image of "a green thought in a green shade" is drawn from this poet's "The Garden." This poet of "An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland" spoke of his "vegetable love" in his most famous poem. For 10 points, what poet of "Upon Appleton House" and "The Mower" declared "Had we but world enough and time/This coyness, lady, were no crime" in "To his Coy Mistress?"
Andrew Marvell
7

162693-)
Freud compared the narrative of this character to Psyche, Cinderella, and Aphrodite before comparing this character to a personification of Death. A disguised servant orders a knight to deliver a ring to this character who is served by Arante in the happy ending of Nahum Tate's revision of the play in which she appears. Following this character's death, another character declares that, given the strength, he would use it so that (*) "heaven's vault should crack." Upon being told to "Speak," this character says that she cannot "heave / My heart into my mouth." Before rejecting the Duke of Burgundy, this character is told "Nothing will come of nothing" by her father after she fails to flatter him with a declaration of love like her sisters, Goneril and Reagan. For 10 points, identify this heroine of Shakespeare’s King Lear.
Cordelia (lead-in is from Writings on Art and Western Literature)
7

162737-)
The narrator of a poem pleads with this figure to "Take notice of the cause I plead" before this figure appoints Genius to hear the narrator's confession. That poem, whose last book includes a section entitled "Leave-taking of [this deity]," is entitled Confessio Amantis and was written by John Gower. This deity is compared to the brooch of Thebes in a poem titled for a complaint of this deity's lover. The narrator of another poem by that author finds himself reading The Aeneid in a (*) glass temple dedicated to this deity before being transported to the titular House of Fame. In the "Knight's Tale," Palamon prays to this deity before competing for love Emily. For 10 points, identify this deity who often appears in romantic medieval literature along with her son Cupid.
Venus [also accept Aphrodite]
7

162775-)
Two characters in this play disagree over whether the story of a tailor made them happy on the day they were engaged. A character in this play owns a black dog that he believes to be white and promises to give another character a sugar-plum if he will listen to his story, despite not having any; that character is upset to learn that there are no more pain-killers and promises to give another character the key to the cupboard if he will “finish” him. A character in this play repeatedly moves a ladder back and forth to look out (*) two windows. This play ends with a handkerchief placed on top of a character, and an alarm clock placed on top of another character inside a garbage can. For 10 points, name this play about Hamm, his servant Clov, and his parents Nagg and Nell, written by Samuel Beckett.
Endgame [or Fin de Partie] &lt;Drama, BB&gt;
7

162781-)
T. S. Eliot claimed to experience a “shudder” while reflecting on a passage in this poem about “waiting for a hand / A hand that can be clasp’d no more.” This poem rejects the idea that Earth is “so careful of the type” and states “A thousand types are gone: / I care for nothing, all shall go,” reflecting the author’s knowledge of geological catastrophism. This poem’s seventh section opens in a “long unlovely street” in front of a “Dark house, by which once more I stand.” Later descriptions of (*) Darwinism evoked the brutality of natural selection with this poem’s line about “nature, red in tooth and claw.” This poem, which contains 132 sections in an A-B-B-A rhyme scheme, states “’Tis better to have loved and lost / Than never loved at all.” For 10 points, name this poem on the death of Arthur Henry Hallam, written by Alfred, Lord Tennyson.
“In Memoriam, A. H. H.” &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, WA&gt;
7

162785-)
This thinker, who considered the Boeotian (“bee-OH-shin”) oracle Trophonius as an example of a “subterranean man,” wrote “Come back, my unknown god!” in the poem “Ariadne’s Lament.” This thinker, who quipped “Plato is boring,” wrote eight Idylls from Messina, nine dithyrambs (“DITH-uh-rams”), and a work that condemns Euripides for reducing the role of the chorus and eliminating music. A figure postulated by this thinker dreams of a child coming to him with a mirror, which he discusses while living in a cave with his two friends, a (*) snake and an eagle. He praised Aeschylus and Sophocles for effectively combining the orgiastic, chaotic side of humanity with the orderly one, which he termed “Dionysian” and “Apollonian.” For 10 points, name this author of The Birth of Tragedy and Thus Spake Zarathustra.
Friedrich Nietzsche (“NEE-chuh”) (The first clue is from Daybreak, also known as Dawn.) &lt;Thought, WA&gt;
7

162802-)
This essay’s narrator is torn between the hatred of his own employers and rage against “evil-spirited little beasts” that impede his work, noting that he would love to “drive a bayonet” into a priest’s guts. This essay remarks “Never tell me, by the way, that the dead look peaceful” after its author sees a laborer’s corpse. It notes that its narrator “wears a mask, and his face grows to fit it” in a passage explaining how he is an “absurd puppet,” since “when the (*) white man turns tyrant it is his own freedom he destroys.” An incident of rage provoked by musth (“must”) prompts the central sahib to carry out this essay’s title action to “avoid looking like a fool” in front of a crowd of two thousand natives in Burma. For 10 points, name this George Orwell essay whose narrator kills a large animal.
“Shooting an Elephant” &lt;Misc. Lit, WA&gt;
7

162806-)
The speaker projects his lovesickness onto this object in a sonnet in which he asks “Do they above love to be loved” and yet “scorn” love as “ungratefulness.” A soliloquy claims that “only fools wear” this object’s “vestal livery,” calling it “sick and green.” Sir Philip Sidney’s speaker observes “with how sad steps” this object moves in Astrophil and Stella 31. The speaker lowers his head and thinks of (*) home at the foot of his bed in another poem centered on this object. In Romeo and Juliet, Shakespeare calls this object “inconstant,” an attribute that Percy Shelley attributes to its “Wandering companionless” in a poem that asks if it is “pale for weariness.” Ray Bradbury borrowed a line from Lord Byron’s poem “So We’ll Go No More A-Roving” which states that this object “be still as bright.” For 10 points, a Tang dynasty era speaker drinks alone with what object in a poem by Li Bai, who also wrote about it in “Quiet Night Thought”?
the moon [or moonlight; accept míngyuè] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JC&gt;
7

162843-)
A 2018 play by Theresa Rebeck dramatizes a controversial 1899 theatrical production starring Sarah Bernhardt as this character. This character remarks “Pray God, your voice… be not cracked within the ring” upon noticing a young man’s dropping voice. Though not Dracula, Henry Irving popularized an inward-facing, “melancholy” interpretation of this character, who asks a dead man “Where are your gibes” and “flashes of merriment?” after arguing with a singing (*) gravedigger. This character “marvellously distempers” a king with a “Mouse-trap” in which a Player pours poison into the ear of a victim. He stages The Murder of Gonzago with an acting troupe recruited by his friends Rosencrantz and Guildenstern. For 10 points, name this title character of a Shakespearean revenge tragedy and prince of Denmark.
Hamlet &lt;Drama, JC&gt;
7

162914-)
This author wrote a letter highlighting a stanza from one of his poems that imagines “some future bard” with “similitude griefs to mine” learning of the speaker’s tragic love story, though he later denounced the addressee as “Sappho” in some satires after she laughed at his love confession. That poem by this author yearns for “The world forgetting by the world forgot.” This author drew inspiration from his heartbreak over Lady (*) Wortley Montagu to write a poem that coined the phrase “Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind.” A long, Horace-inspired poem by this author contains many heroic couplets that are the origin of phrases like “Fools rush in where angels fear to tread” and “To err is human; to forgive, divine.” For 10 points, name this author of “Eloisa to Abelard” and “Essay on Criticism.”
Alexander Pope &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, JC&gt;
7

162942-)
In the frame story of a novel titled for this physical action, an old man and a boy hide in a burned-out bus, where they discover the notebooks of Kindzu. After a character who performs this action exits, a man remarks “My mind she has mated, and amazed my sight. I think but dare not speak.” This action describes lands ravaged by the Mozambican Civil War in the title of a Mia Couto (“KOO-toh”) novel. In a famous 1794 interpretation of a character doing this action, a candle was controversially (*) placed on the ground by Sarah Siddons. A character who does this action claims that “the Thane of Fife had a wife” while speaking with a doctor and gentlewoman, and says “All the perfumes of Arabia will not sweeten this little hand.” For 10 points, what action names a famous scene in which the line “Out, damned spot!” is spoken by Lady Macbeth?
sleepwalking [or somnambulation; accept Sleepwalking Land or Terra Sonnambula] &lt;Misc. Lit, WA&gt;
7

162988-)
Randall Jarrell claimed that an “unusually simple” way of travelling into the future is to read this author without being prepared to read him as if “one were setting out, naked, to see something that is there naked.” George Orwell argued that this man’s poetry resulted from his being “half-civilized” in an essay that used this man’s line “He travels the fastest who travels alone” as an example of this man as a “good bad poet.” This poet of “The Winners” wrote of a character who will be (*) “squattin’ on the coals / Givin’ drink to poor damned souls” in a poem that tells that character “you’re a better man than I.” This man included “if all men count on you, but none too much” in a poem that ends “you’ll be a man, my son!” The “White Man’s Burden” was described by, for 10 points, what poet of “Gunga Din” and “If”?
Joseph Rudyard Kipling &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, EL&gt;   Bonuses
7

163002-)
Henry James claimed that this novel was “one of the strongest and one of the weakest of English novels,” calling it a “treasure-house of details.” In this novel, a “frog-faced” mourner at a funeral turns out to be the illegitimate son of a deceased landlord who shows up to inherit his estate. In its first chapter, an uncle gives his two nieces a box with their deceased mother’s jewelry, from which one niece only takes two pieces. Stone Court is inherited by (*) Jacob Rigg from Mr. Featherstone in this novel. In this novel, Rosamond Vincy marries the doctor Tertius Lydgate to improve her social standing, while the protagonist courts a reverend who is working on a “key to all mythologies” named Edward Casaubon. Dorothea Brooke is the protagonist of, for 10 points, what George Eliot novel subtitled “A Study in Provincial Life”?
Middlemarch: A Study in Provincial Life &lt;Long Fiction, EL&gt;
7

163032-)
A poet from this country experimented with a “synthetic” form of his native tongue in late poems, such as those collected in Second Hymn to Lenin and Other Poems. That poet from this country wrote that its people were the only ones who “deem their ignorance their glory” in a poem about “a drunk man” who looks at the title plant. Another poet from this country asks “O what is death but parting breath?” and describes a man who “play’d a spring… Below the gallows-tree” in a poem styled as an (*) outlaw’s “farewell.” That poet from this country says he was “sorry that Man’s dominion / Has broken Nature’s social union” in a poem about a creature that “art blessed, compared with me.” A “Wee, sleeket, cowran, tim’rous beastie” is the addressee of a poem from this country about the “best laid schemes o’ Mice an’ Men.” For 10 points, name this home of Hugh MacDiarmid (“muk-DEER-mid”) and Robert Burns.
Scotland [prompt on United Kingdom or UK or Great Britain; do not accept or prompt on “England”] &lt;Non-Epic Poetry, EL&gt;
7

163034-)
This woman is played by Maura Tierney in a 2017 production by the Wooster Group that dramatizes a debate centering on the essay “The Prisoner of Sex.” The film Town Bloody Hall covers that debate, in which this woman headlined a panel that opposed Norman Mailer. At the 2018 Hay festival, this thinker caused controversy by claiming that most rape is “lazy, careless, and insensitive” and equating it with “bad sex.” A 2015 petition at Cardiff University called for this thinker to be disinvited for expressing transphobic views. In her (*) 1970 magnum opus, this thinker claimed that women do not grasp “how much men hate them” and argued that traditional families starve women of their sexual desires, turning them into the title neutered figures. For 10 points, name this Australian feminist who wrote The Female Eunuch.
Germaine Greer &lt;Other/Misc Academic, WA&gt;
7

163038-)
This character claims that life affirmed his preference for soldiers over philosophers after reading Sartor Resartus and Ride to Khiva. This character describes the East as “perfumed like a flower, silent like death, dark like a grave” in that story, in which he works for Captain Beard. In a novel, after this character defends another man’s “unsound method,” he appreciates having “at least a choice of nightmares.” In that novel, this character hopes that his “aspect was not so” “unappetizing” to (*) cannibals whose restraint he contrasts with a man who puts severed heads on poles. This character, who rescinds the postscript “Exterminate all the Brutes!” from a report, is unsettled by another character’s last words, “The Horror! The Horror!” For 10 points, name this character hired to rescue Kurtz in Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness.
Charles Marlow [accept either name] (The first two clues are from “Youth.”) &lt;Misc. Lit, EL&gt;
7

163080-)
This author defended James Joyce from accusations of being overly-obtuse in the essay “Dante...Bruno. Vico...Joyce.” In one play by this author, a man throws his stuffed black poodle away and gives the nickname “Old Stancher” to a handkerchief. In another of this author’s plays, a character inserts nonsense phrases like (*) “quaquaquaqua” in a long, rambling dialogue until someone removes his hat. One character created by this author is given a dog biscuit shortly before dying in a trash can. In another play, Pozzo and Lucky walk onto a stage whose only prop is a tree. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright of Endgame who wrote about Vladimir and Estragon in Waiting for Godot.
Samuel Barclay Beckett &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Drama &gt;
6

163090-)
A landlady in this novel insists that guests at Rolliver’s keep their voices down for fear that she should lose her bar “licends.” The protagonist of this novel is placed in a coffin by her sleepwalking lover. That man’s father originally hoped that he would marry the teacher Mercy Chant. In this novel, the protagonist’s father gleefully discovers that he (*) is descended from former nobility by Parson Tringham, and this novel’s protagonist later gets the family horse Prince killed. In this novel, authorities arrest the sister of Liza-Lu at Stonehenge for killing the father of the child Sorrow. For 10 points, name this novel about the title woman who murders Alec and marries Angel Clare, written by Thomas Hardy.
Tess of the D’urbervilles &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-form Literature &gt;
6

163110-)
This author mourned a group of people whose “bones lie scattered on the Alpine mountains” in a poem that begins by asking God to “avenge” his “slaughtered saints.” This author states that he “argues not against Heaven’s hand or will” in one of two poems he addressed to Cyriack Skinner. In another poem, this author described a “two-handed engine” and later commands, “look (*) homeward, Angel, and melt with ruth.” Patience states that “they also serve who only stand and wait” in a poem reflecting on this author’s blindness. In another poem this author tries to “justify the ways of God to man.” For 10 points, name this author of “When I consider how my light is spent,” “Lycidas,” and Paradise Lost.
John Milton (first clue is referring to “On the Late Massacre in Piedmont”) &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
6

163153-)
The speaker of one poem by this author asks if his friend sleeps in “a better bed than mine.” This author instructs the reader to “get you the sons your fathers got” in a poem commemorating the fiftieth anniversary of his leader’s reign. A man in one poem by this author is advised to “train for ill and not for good” since “Luck’s a chance, but trouble’s sure.” The speaker of one poem by this author was told by a (*) “wise man” to “give crowns and pounds and guineas/ but not your heart away;” while the title character of another of his poems is told “you eat your victuals fast enough.” For 10 points, name author whose poems “1887,” “When I Was One-and-Twenty,” and “Terence, this is stupid stuff” are collected in A Shropshire Lad.
A.E. Housman [or Alfred Edward Housman] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
6

163168-)
In one part of this novel, a boy nicknamed “Figs” starts to write a letter to his mother until he is interrupted by the bully Cuff. One character in this novel leaves his wife after finding her hidden bank records and is appointed governor of Coventry Island. A soldier in this novel attempts to escape Brussels by purchasing an overpriced carriage from a woman who has an affair with the (*) Marquis of Steyne. Earlier in this novel, George Osborne dies at the Battle of Waterloo, and his widow later marries William Dobbin. This novel opens by describing Miss Pinkerton’s Academy, a school that enrolls Amelia Sedley and Becky Sharp. For 10 points, name this “novel without a hero” by William Makepeace Thackeray.
Vanity Fair: A Novel Without a Hero &lt; Ethan Ashbrook / Mitch McCullar | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
6

163173-)
When a character in this play is told that singing will only make him sad, he replies “I can suck melancholy out of a song as a weasel sucks eggs.” A nobleman’s story about a wounded deer being abandoned by the herd is discussed in a conversation between a duke and a lord in this play. One character in this play disguises herself as (*) Aliena after her father, Duke Frederick, usurps the throne and banishes his niece, who evades him by disguising herself as Ganymede. In this play, Jaques (jah-kweez) discusses the seven ages of man in a monologue that begins “all the world’s a stage.” For 10 points, name this Shakespeare comedy that culminates with the marriage of Orlando and Rosalind.
As You Like It &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
6

163178-)
A poem by this author is addressed to a man “to whom no sound is dissonant which tells of Life.” In one poem by this author, the title object makes a “soft floating witchery of sound.” Another poem by this author begins, “well, they are gone, and here must I remain.” This author of “This Lime-tree Bower (*) My Prison,” wrote a poem whose title phenomenon “performs its secret ministry/ unhelped by any wind.” This author wrote many Conversation Poems to his son Hartley. This poet was interrupted by the person from Porlock while writing a poem describing a “stately pleasure-dome” in Xanadu. For 10 points, name this author of “The Eolian Harp,” “Frost at Midnight,” and “Kubla Khan.”
Samuel Taylor Coleridge &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
6

163209-)
While using one of these objects, the narrator of a novel meets the title character, who wears an identifiably fake wig and carries a fake passport; that title character is revealed to be a masochistic communist in a Christopher Isherwood novel narrated by William Bradshaw titled Mr. Norris Changes [one of these objects]. In a novel titled after one of these objects, a fugitive named (*) Casetti hides on one of these objects after he had earlier kidnapped and murdered Daisy Armstrong. Hercule Poirot discovers that twelve people stabbed Ratchett in an Agatha Christie novel set on one of these vehicles. For 10 points, name this sort of vehicle, the setting of Murder on the Orient Express.
trains [accept Orient Express before mentioned; accept logical equivalents like locomotive or railroad; accept Mr. Norris Changes Trains] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Misc Literature &gt;
6

163220-)
In one poem titled for this city, the speaker praises a poet whose “heart / the lowliest duties on [this city] did lay.” Another poem set in this city ends with the line, “After the first death, there is no other.” The speaker of a poem set in this city hears how the “Harlot’s curse” (*) “blights with plagues the Marriage Hearse.” This city is the setting of a Dylan Thomas poem about a child burning to death, which the speaker refuses to mourn. A speaker hears “mind-forged manacles” and “wanders thro’ each charter’d street” in a William Blake poem set in this city. For 10 points, name this city that titles a Wordsworth poem, mourning for the English poet, John Milton.
London [accept “London, 1802”; accept “A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
6

163245-)
This character deduces the identity of another character disguised as a gypsy fortune-teller after the fortune-teller lets his voice slowly deepen. A chestnut tree is struck by lightning after earlier serving as the location of a proposal to this character who is let into Marsh End by a man who later asks this character to go to India as his missionary wife. After hitting her cousin (*) John, this character is sent to the “red room.” While attending Lowood school, this character’s friend Helen Burns dies. Towards the end of the novel this character narrates, she finds Thornfield Hall burned down and her former fiancé Edward Rochester blind. For 10 points, name this title character of a novel by Charlotte Brontë.
Jane Eyre [accept either underlined name] &lt; Mitch McCullar | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
6

163280-)
This character’s husband thinks that “happiness is” holding this character’s hand after giving her roses. Along with people like Mrs. Bletchley and Mrs. Coates, this woman watches a plane spell out “toffee” in the sky while standing in front of Buckingham Palace. This woman’s daughter, Elizabeth, goes shopping with (*) this woman’s bitter rival, Mrs. Kilman. This woman admires the courage of a World War I veteran who jumps from a window to his death and remembers sharing a kiss with Sally Seton in her childhood. This character is frenemies with Peter Walsh and begins the day by going to buy flowers for her party. For 10 points, name this title character of a novel by Virginia Woolf.
Mrs. Clarissa Dalloway [accept either underlined name] &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Long-Form Fiction &gt;
6

163285-)
One character created by this author reveals that he owns 4,000 tablecloths and states that he holds highest rank in Switzerland: “a free citizen.” In a play by this author, the protagonist is captured in the Sierra Nevadas along with his chauffeur. In another play by this author, Ezra Wannafeller is convinced that he found the (*) “most original moralist” in England. A dream sequence in one play by this author occurs after Jack Tanner is captured by Mendoza; that sequence is titled “Don Juan in Hell.” This author wrote a play centering around Colonel Pickering’s bet with Henry Higgins that he can’t make Eliza Doolittle a lady. For 10 points, name this author of Man and Superman, Arms and the Man, and Pygmalion.
George Bernard Shaw &lt; Mitch McCullar | Drama &gt;
6

163309-)
Perhaps inspired by T.S. Eliot, this author wrote a number of works like The Old Age of El Magnifico and Particularly Cats that are collectively known as the “Cat Tales.” Moses is convicted for murdering Mary Turner in a novel by this author that takes its title from “The Waste Land.” This author’s novel The Four-Gated City is the final novel in a series about (*) Martha Quest called The Children of Violence. Another novel by this author follows a woman who is friends with Molly Jacobs, and records her life in a series of red, black, blue, and yellow diaries. For 10 points, name this British-Zimbabwean author of The Grass is Singing and The Golden Notebook.
Doris (May) Lessing &lt; Ethan Ashbrook | Misc Literature &gt;
6

163337-)
In one poem by this author, the speaker notes that all we “know for truth” is that “wine comes in at the mouth and love comes in at the eye.” The speaker of another poem by this author believes that “no likely end” could bring the sense of loss to “Kiltartan’s poor.” This author of “A Drinking Song” imagined “the burning roof and tower and (*) Agamemnon dead” in a poem that begins by describing “great wings beating” above a “staggering girl.” The speaker of another poem by this author states that “an aged man is but a paltry thing” before describing the title location as “no country for old men.” For 10 points, name this Irish poet of “Leda and the Swan” and “Sailing to Byzantium.”
William Butler Yeats (the second sentence is “An Irish Airman Foresees His death”) &lt; Mitch McCullar | Non-Epic Poetry &gt;
6

163356-)
A parenthetical comment calls the ear “the murmuring shell of” this concept. Section III of a poem ends by describing the world moving “in appetency, on its metalled ways of” this concept, before Section IV opens by mentioning that this concept “and the bell have buried the day.” The speaker notes that “only through [this concept], [this concept] is conquered” after musing that two forms of this concept “allow but a little consciousness.” The speaker states that “if all [of this concept] is (*) eternally present, all [of this concept] is unredeemable” at the beginning of a poem which opens with a discussion of this concept, followed by the speaker recalling moments in a rose garden surrounding the title manor. For 10 points, name this concept meditated upon in T. S. Eliot’s Four Quartets, which begins by discussing “[This concept] present and [this concept] past.”
time
9

163357-)
A poem in this form about Jason was written by one Dosiadas of Crete, and is imitated in Poem 26 of the Carmina of Publilius Optatianus Porphyrius. A stanza of Dryden’s “Mac Flecknoe” satirizes poets who “raise” this type of poem “and torture one poor word ten thousand ways.” The speaker of the most famous poem in this form says that “each part of my hard heart meets in this frame to praise thy name.” That poem, which describes an object “made of a heart and cemented with tears,” pleads “oh, let thy blessed (*) SACRIFICE be mine.” The most famous poem in this form is the first poem in the “Church” section of “The Church Porch,” and is similar to its author’s “Easter Wings.” For 10 points, name this type of pattern poem shaped like a kind of table, one of which was written by George Herbert.
altar poems [prompt on concrete poetry, pattern poetry, or shape poetry]
9

163362-)
At the beginning of this scene, a character muses about a dream in which he went to a feast, noting that “things unlucky charge my fantasy.” This Shakespearean scene was omitted from the stage for around 250 years, until it was reinstated in a 1937 production. That production at the Mercury Theatre, in which some characters in this scene were dressed like Mussolini’s blackshirts, was directed by (*) Orson Welles. At the beginning of this scene, a character is asked “What is your name?”, “Whither are you going?”, “Where do you dwell?”, and “Are you a married man or a bachelor?” The Fourth Citizen says “pluck but his name out of his heart” and “tear him for his bad verses” in reference to the man who dies in this scene. For 10 points, name this scene from Julius Caesar in which a poet is torn apart by a mob after being mistaken for a conspirator.
the killing of Cinna the Poet by a mob in Julius Caesar [accept clear equivalents; accept Act 3, Scene 3 of Julius Caesar]
9

163376-)
An author with this first name wrote a story whose protagonists find the body of a peasant entangled in some roots which emits a humming noise when they touch it and which is covered in tiny funnel-shaped holes. That story, whose narrator canoes down the Danube with the Swede, is called “The Willows.” A character with this first name notes that “the very essence of romance is uncertainty,” which is why it’s romantic to be in love, but not to propose. That character also says that eating (*) muffins calmly is the only way to eat them, and quips that “All women become like their mothers. That is their tragedy. No man does. That is his.” A character with this first name invents an invalid friend named Bunbury and becomes engaged to Cecily Cardew in The Importance of Being Earnest. For 10 points, the “A” in “A. C. Swinburne” stands for what name, also the name of a hyperintelligent mouse in a novel by Daniel Keyes?
Algernon
9

163387-)
This character notes that it’s possible to have blood and love without rhetoric, or blood and rhetoric without love, but not love and rhetoric without blood. While the stage goes dark, he gives a speech listing “Deaths for all ages and occasions,” including “suspension, convulsion, consumption, incision, execution, asphyxiation and malnutrition.” This character foolishly accepts another character’s bet that his birth year doubled is an even number. He tells the boy (*) Alfred to put on a skirt so he can play the role of a woman in a reenactment of the rape of the Sabine women. This character convinces the title characters that he’s actually dead when he’s been stabbed with a retractable dagger, thus winning an argument about whether death can be realistically portrayed onstage. For 10 points, name this character who leads the Tragedians in Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead.
the Player
9

163389-)
In a performance named after this medium, Karen Finley recited spoken-word pieces about the deaths of her friends from AIDS. A thought experiment in Knapp and Michaels’ essay “Against Theory” imagines the poem “A slumber did my spirit seal” being written in this medium. Disputes over the authorship of a poem about markings in this medium led to Mary Stevenson’s son suing Margaret Fishback Powers and Carolyn Carty. In a poem about writing in this medium, the speaker says “whenas death shall all the world subdue, our love shall live, and later life renew” in response to a woman chiding him for being a (*) “vain man” who “dost in vain assay a mortal thing so to immortalize.” That poem from Spenser’s Amoretti is about writing a woman’s name in this medium. For 10 points, God reveals that he carried the speaker during his times of suffering in an incredibly popular prose poem about footprints in what medium?
writing in the sand [accept writing on the strand; accept writing on the beach or other clear equivalents]
9

163404-)
This the name of the title figure of a trilogy of novels about Germany from the Nazi era to an apocalyptic future, beginning with Scenes from the Life of a Faun and ending with Dark Mirrors. A figure of this name is asked “Why art thou silent &amp; invisible, father of Jealousy?” in a poem entitled “To [that figure]. Prometheus throws a phantom of this name into space in Salman Rushdie’s Luka and the Fire of Life. A trilogy by Arno Schmidt is named after the (*) children of a figure with this name. In a play of this title, Cain kills Abel because he is tired of Abel pleading an indifferent God to let him into the Garden of Eden. For 10 points, the title character of a verse drama by Archibald MacLeish has what name, a mocking portmanteau used by William Blake to refer to God?
Nobodaddy
9

163413-)
This book says that the five main facts of human life are “birth, food, sleep, love, and death,” and argues that love tends to be overemphasized in the lives of fictional characters, whom it dubs homo fictus. This book uses Moll Flanders as its main example of a book whose form is determined by its main character. This book contrasts the “little phrase” which provides Remembrance of Things Past with its rhythm with the schematic plot of The Ambassadors, which forms an hourglass shape. According to this book, “The king (*) died and then the queen died” is a story, but “The king died, and then the queen died of grief” is a plot. This book distinguishes flat characters, who are constructed around a single quality, with more fully fleshed-out round characters. For 10 points, name this work of literary criticism by E. M. Forster.
Aspects of the Novel
9

163419-)
An essay entitled “The Triumph of [this concept]” scoffs at the phrases “the Ideal” and “the Beautiful,” calling them “empty words,” and was written by Jules-Antoine Castagnary. A passage from Wordsworth’s The Excursion in which the speaker describes “having walked with [this concept]” was used as the epigraph for each of the five volumes of an 1860 book. A quotation about “a harmony parallel to” this concept was used as the epigraph for Roger Fry’s monograph on (*) Cézanne. In Religio Medici, Thomas Browne wrote that “art is the perfection of” this concept. A book which defends the works of J. M. W. Turner, John Ruskin’s Modern Painters, argues that the goal of art should be “truth to [this concept].” For 10 points, name this thing which François Boucher dismissed as being “too green and poorly lit.”
nature [accept naturalism]
9

163430-)
These characters share a laboratory, where they mince liver for use as a cure for pernicious anemia. An analysis of these characters prophesies that the author who created them “will be a poet … in another hundred years’ time.” That analysis notes that the Greek tragedies, the tragedies of Racine, and Diana of the Crossways are the works that come closest to capturing the relationship between these two characters, and argues that (*) Antony and Cleopatra would have been completely different if Cleopatra and Octavia had had the same relationship as these characters. These characters originally appeared in the novel Life’s Adventure by Mary Carmichael. For 10 points, name these two women whose relationship is the subject of a sentence discussed at length in Virginia Woolf’s A Room of One’s Own.
Chloe and Olivia
9

163433-)
A character with this first name asks St. Francis to open a lion’s heart to grace, thus distracting the lion and saving his father from being eaten. Master Patch plays a character with this first name in an entertainment in which four men dressed as devils drag him to Hell. A character with this first name is nicknamed “Call-Me” because of the counterintuitive pronunciation of his surname, Wriothesley [RIZZ-lee]. At the beginning of a novel, Walter says “So now get up” to his son of this first name while (*) beating him up. A character with this first name feels betrayed when his chief clerk Rafe Sadler secretly marries Helen. A character with this first name is executed at the end of a novel whose title is an allusion both to the phrase “Homo homini lupus” and to the seat of the Seymour family. For 10 points, identify the first name of seemingly every character in Wolf Hall, including Wolsey, More, and Cromwell.
Thomas
9

163434-)
In a novel, a medical student of this name is obsessively in love with his cousin Estefania. Cyril Connolly wrote the book The Unquiet Grave under this pseudonym. The magnum opus of Fernando del Paso is titled for a character with this name “of Mexico.” An epigram by Martial puns on this name by suggesting that it means “someone who pisses again.” The Cumaean Sibyl tells a character of this name that the people who find his (*) body will name a cape after him. Jupiter’s decree that one life will be offered to save many refers to a character of this name, who is killed after washing ashore at Velia and is unable to cross Cocytus because he does not receive a proper burial. For 10 points, identify this name of the helmsman of Aeneas’ ship in the Aeneid, who falls overboard.
Palinurus [or Palinuro]
9

163441-)
Note to players: Your answer should consist of two rhyming words.  This rhyme is used in a couplet declaring that “I … perforce am thine” at the end of Shakespeare’s Sonnet 133. This rhyme is used in a couplet saying that the speaker’s nights are “bright days” when he sees the addressee in his dreams in Shakespeare’s Sonnet 43. In Sonnet 122, a couplet using this rhyme claims that “keeping an adjunct” would “import forgetfulness” as an excuse for getting rid of a notebook given to him by the Fair Youth. This rhyme is used in the last two lines of John Donne’s “The (*) Flea,” which also uses these two rhyming words in its third line, which describes the title flea’s sucking habits. For 10 points, name these first- and second-person pronouns often rhymed by Shakespeare.
me and thee
9

163443-)
To stop Dauphine from being disinherited, a character named after this concept gives a speech trying to convince Morose that he’d be better off killing himself than getting married; that happens in Epicoene, or the Silent Woman. This concept appears in the surname of Lady Wishfort’s nephew, whom she wants to marry Millamant, in The Way of the World. A character named after this concept writes a puppet (*) play in which the puppets raise their clothes to reveal they have no genitals in response to Busy’s criticism that the characters are cross-dressed; that happens in Bartholomew Fair. A character whose name ends with this word takes Mammon’s goods and marries Dame Pliant at the end of a play in which his butler Jeremy cooks up fraudulent schemes in his house, The Alchemist. For 10 points, name this concept which also titles a Margaret Edson play about an English professor dying of ovarian cancer.
wit
9

163446-)
A poem named after this figure asks “What is space anyway if not the body’s absence at every given point?” and begins “Everything has its limit, including sorrow.” Charles Dickens founded a cottage for “fallen women” named after this figure. This mythological figure titles the first prose romance written by an English woman, which interpolates the sonnets in the sequence Pamphilia to Amphilanthus and was written by Lady Mary (*) Wroth. In a poem, this figure asks “Who art thou?” to a stranger who answers by “[making] bare his branded and ensanguined brow.” The speaker asks this “most musical of mourners” to “lament anew” for the death of John Keats in Shelley’s “Adonais.” For 10 points, name this muse of astronomy.
Urania
9

163450-)
Gareth Evans critiqued a model of conception which he named after this practice, arguing that it should be replaced with what he called Russell’s Principle. Bergson’s Introduction to Metaphysics notes that this practice cannot replace the experience of walking around a town. The preface to Anarchy, State, and Utopia compares some forms of philosophy to performing this practice with a container full of objects which are bulging out. A book about this practice was inspired by the death of the author’s (*) mother Henriette and analyzes the products of this practice in terms of two elements called the studium and punctum. For 10 points, name this practice which is the subject of Roland Barthes’ Camera Lucida.
photography
9

163456-)
Pope Leo XIII holds a product named for this thing in an advertisement calling that product one of “the two infallible powers.” In the book The Morning of the Magicians, Louis Pauwels and Jacques Bergier claimed that a woman named Maria Orsic was part of a society named after this thing which was a precursor of the Nazi Party. In its original appearance, this thing can be controlled by a walking stick-like staff, as the narrator learns from a woman named Zee. The descendants of a (*) subterranean civilization called the Ana harness this thing to gain parapsychological abilities in an 1871 novel. For 10 points, name this powerful energy from Edward Bulwer-Lytton’s The Coming Race, which when combined with the word “bovine” names a British meat extract.
vril [accept Bovril]
9

163458-)
A book by this author compares Pythagoras to a conductor who creates harmony out of the chaos caused by a bunch of musicians tuning their instruments separately. That book, which this author expanded from a planned biography called The Watershed, emphasizes the cowardice of a person who he refers to as the “Timid Canon.” This man’s cousin bilked him out of most of the profits from The Encyclopœdia of (*) Sexual Knowledge, which he wrote under a pseudonym. He attempted to eradicate anti-Semitism by demonstrating that the Ashkenazi Jews are actually descended from the Khazars in his book The Thirteenth Tribe. This writer used Janus as a metaphor for entities which are simultaneously wholes and parts, which he called “holons.” For 10 points, name this author of non-fiction books like The Sleepwalkers and The Ghost in the Machine, whose novels include Darkness at Noon.
Arthur Koestler [or Kösztler Artúr]
9

163473-)
Unica Zürn’s book Hexentexte [HEX-en-text-uh] consists of poems obeying this constraint, which she experimented with at the encouragement of Hans Bellmer. A 1994 sci-fi novel by Greg Egan begins with a poem obeying this constraint. A parody of “This Is Just to Say” whose title is based on this constraint describes owls which are “so feathery / and so dedicated to Allah.” This constraint guides Georges Perec’s poem “Ulcerations.” The titles of the poems in Francis Heaney’s book (*) Holy Tango of Literature are based on this constraint. A poem based on this constraint describes “a hard, howling, tossing water scene” in which “strong tide was washing hero clean.” For 10 points, name this constraint which is the basis for David Shulman’s sonnet “Washington Crossing the Delaware.”
anagrammatic poetry
9

163474-)
A book recounting this action tells of how its performer was introduced to the works of Proust by the Baron Pips Schey. A book recounting this action ends with the promise “TO BE CONCLUDED” after the narrator arrives at a gorge on the Feast of the Dormition of the Virgin. The performer of this action often recited poetry to himself to while away the time and carried a volume of (*) Horace’s poems, foreshadowing how he would later recite one of Horace’s odes with a man he had just helped kidnap, General Heinrich Kreipe. The third book about this endeavor, The Broken Road, was never published during the author’s lifetime. For 10 points, describe this trip recounted in the books A Time of Gifts and Between the Woods and the Water.
Patrick Leigh Fermor’s journey on foot across Europe [or Patrick Leigh Fermor’s journey on foot from the Hook of Holland to Constantinople]
9

163481-)
A character from this novel receives the first name Catherine in a novel by Ronald Frame, and warns “don’t think it’s only the heart that b-b-b-breaks” at the end of a poem by Carol Ann Duffy. Thursday Next is apprenticed to a character from this novel in the literary police force Jurisfiction in Jasper Fforde’s Lost in a Good Book. Dolores steals a copy of this novel belonging to the bug-eyed Mr. Watts in a book in which the name of this novel’s protagonist is found carved into the sand by soldiers in the civil war on (*) Bougainville Island. This novel’s author is fictionalized as Tobias Oates in a novel whose title character gets a job as a servant in Percy Buckle’s house while searching for Henry Phipps. For 10 points, name this novel which inspired the novels Jack Maggs, Mister Pip and Havisham.
Great Expectations
9

163488-)
An essay named after these two words metaphorically divides human consciousness into the Old World and the New World, analogizing the “world of Visionary Experience” to the antipodes. The protagonist of Max Beerbohm’s “The Happy Hypocrite” changes his surname from one of these words to the other. Aparna becomes jealous of Pranab’s engagement to Deborah in a story named after these two words, from (*) Jhumpa Lahiri’s Unaccustomed Earth. “The tigers of wrath are wiser than the horses of instruction” and “The pride of the peacock is the glory of God” are among the proverbs listed in a book named after these two things, which is the source of the title of Aldous Huxley’s The Doors of Perception. For 10 points, name these two places whose “marriage” titles a book by William Blake.
Heaven and Hell
9

163491-)
An author with this surname used the subtitle “A Play About a Play Within a Play” for his radio play Pearl. That author wrote a play whose title character wants to kill 25 townsfolk to avenge the deaths of five innocent people who were themselves killed to avenge the death of a soldier named Billy Hicks. That Marxist playwright with this surname wrote the play Serjeant Musgrave’s Dance. This was the maiden name of William (*) Shakespeare’s mother, Mary, and it is also the name of a series of scholarly editions of Shakespeare’s plays that began with the 1899 publication of Edward Dowden’s edition of Hamlet. An anonymous Elizabethan play is about the murder of a man of this surname in Faversham. For 10 points, As You Like It takes place largely among the exiled court of a duke in a forest of what name?
Arden
9

163501-)
In his autobiography, this man recalled how, when his mother managed to procure three bananas for the family during wartime, his father sat down in front of him and ate all the bananas himself. He was fired from The Spectator after changing George Gale’s byline to “Lunchtime O’Booze,” a reference to an in-joke from the satirical magazine Private Eye, for which he wrote a regular diary from 1970 to 1985. He abandoned fiction for journalism after writing five novels, mostly named after flowers, including (*) Consider the Lilies and Who Are the Violets Now? As editor of the Literary Review, he co-founded the Bad Sex in Fiction Award. For 10 points, name this eldest son of Evelyn Waugh, who was nicknamed “Bron.”
Auberon Alexander Waugh [prompt on “A. Waugh,” because Alec Waugh is also a person]
9

163504-)
A novel whose title character has this unusual quality includes self-effacing chapter titles like “The Least Tedious in the Book” and “Which Will Not Amuse Those Who Have Found the Previous One Wearisome.” That novel is by Crébillon fils. The protagonist of Charles Johnstone’s Chrysal has this unusual quality, as does the protagonist of Tibor Fischer’s The (*) Collector Collector. A novel whose narrator has this unusual quality satirizes British politics during the Seven Years’ War in the form of a story supposedly from ancient Japan; that novel is by Tobias Smollett. For 10 points, name this unusual property possessed by the protagonists of 18th-century British it-novels, as well as several of the narrators in My Name Is Red.
they’re all inanimate objects
9

163513-)
An interpretation of this statement argues that, just like Shakespeare’s “Ripeness is all,” it is justified by a dramatic context. I. A. Richards wrote that this statement should be interpreted as “the expression of a certain blend of feelings,” and that taking this statement seriously is a mistake resulting from “linguistic naivety.” In responding to Richards, T. S. Eliot claimed that this statement is “a serious blemish on a beautiful (*) poem.” Cleanth Brooks argued that this statement is a sort of “history without footnotes” in an essay which takes its title from the phrase “sylvan historian.” This statement is expressed by an object that, “when old age shall this generation waste,” will “remain, in midst of other woe than ours, a friend to man.” For 10 points, name this statement that is “all ye know on earth, and all ye need to know” according to “Ode on a Grecian Urn.”
beauty is truth, truth beauty
9

163522-)
In the last chapter of a novel, a scholar travels back in time to visit this author and learns that he “wrote” his works by copying manuscripts which were brought to him by other time travelers. In the frame story to a novel, a professor gives a lecture on this author while getting more and more drunk on rice wine. In that novel, this author contracts syphilis from his lover Fatimah, whose name he conceals in an acrostic of the letters “F T M A H” in one of his poems. The pop star (*) April Elgar plays one of this author’s characters in the musical Actor on His Ass in the final novel of the Enderby quartet. For 10 points, name this author who inspired Anthony Burgess’ novels Enderby’s Dark Lady and Nothing Like the Sun.
William Shakespeare
9

163526-)
In a play of this title, a drunkard annoys an angel who is trying to deliver the prologue to a scene by plucking feathers from his wings. Scenes like “Morality Play of the Blind Man and the Cripple” and “The Birth of the Jongleur” are told in a play of this title which popularized a macaronic style of language called “grammelot.” In a play of this title, the Negus of Ethiopia is overthrown in a revolution after he eats all the food on the (*) Ark built by the seven pairs of the Clean and the seven pairs of the Unclean. Kazimir Malevich painted the art for the premiere of that play, which fictionalizes the Russian Revolution. For 10 points, name this title roughly shared by plays by Dario Fo and Vladimir Mayakovsky.
Mystery-Bouffe [or Mistero Buffo; or Comic Mystery]
9

163531-)
The first chapter of Samuel Beckett’s Watt includes an image of this type as a representation of an event that takes place while Watt is lying face down in a ditch. The 75th of Ezra Pound’s Cantos consists mostly of one of these images following a brief passage asking “Gerhart, art thou come forth out of Phlegethon?” A passage explaining the inclusion of some of these images asks “Your country? How came it yours?” In Finnegans Wake, a series of cartoons along with one of these images are used to tell the story of (*) Persse O’Reilly. One of these images follows an Arthur Symons poem beginning “O water, voice of my heart” at the beginning of the chapter “Of Our Spiritual Strivings.” For 10 points, identify these images which are included at the beginning of each chapter of The Souls of Black Folk as visual representations of the “sorrow songs.”
excerpts from musical scores [or sheet music; accept clear equivalents]
9

163543-)
Hélène Cixous [“eh”-LEN “seek-SUE”] noted the similarity of an adjective used to describe one of these animals in a novel to the French adjective immonde, meaning “unworldly.” The statement “I was complaining about [these animals]” opens “Leibnitz and the Transcendence of Love in Polynesia,” the last of five different versions of the same narrative told in a story called “The Fifth Story.” One of these animals appears in a room with a drawing of a man, a woman, and a dog on the wall, presumably drawn by the (*) maid who has until recently lived there. A wealthy resident of a penthouse has a mystical experience after crushing that animal in the door of a wardrobe. For 10 points, name this insect, part of which is eaten by the title character of Clarice Lispector’s The Passion According to G.H.
cockroaches
9

163545-)
. A poem written in this manner begins “Thou whom chance may hither lead, be thou clad in russet weed” and was written in honor of Robert Riddell at the Friars Case Hermitage. When his friend Jessie Lewars was ill, a poet used this technique to write an epitaph for her, along with a stanza about her recovery in case she didn’t die. Thanks to a gift from the Earl of Glencairn, Robert Burns was able to write a number of poems in this manner. A three-line poem beginning (*) “Much suspected by me, nothing proved can be” was written in this manner by Elizabeth I during her imprisonment at Woodstock. For 10 points, name this method of engraving which makes use of a substance with a Mohs hardness of 10.
diamond-point engraving [prompt on “writing on a window” or “writing on glass”]
9

163551-)
In a story from this book, a hare steals a hunter’s gun and eyeglasses and hunts the hunter, making him fall into a well. An illustration in this book shows a pair of cats weeping copious tears over a pile of ash after a girl strikes a match and burns herself to death. A soup tureen sits next to the grave of a character in this book who wastes away because he refuses to eat the soup presented to him every day. In a story from this book, a child ignores his mother’s warnings not to (*) suck his thumbs, so a tailor appears and chops off his thumbs with a giant pair of scissors. The title character of this book gets his nickname from the fact that he never cuts his nails or combs his hair. For 10 points, name this influential German children’s book by Heinrich Hoffmann whose title means “Shock-Headed Peter.”
Der Struwwelpeter [accept Shock-Headed Peter before “shock-headed”; accept Slovenly Peter]
9

163554-)
One of these objects is given as a present to the emperor of China and turned into a votive offering for the god Fo Fo. The inventor of these objects also married the daughter of a duke, making him twice as great a man as Galileo. The narrator of an essay about these objects hopes that he’s ranked number 10 or 12 among Miss Fanny’s lovers, but fears that he’s ranked number 199 + 1. That essay describes the secret word (*) “Waterloo and recovered Christendom!” The word tumultuosissimamente opens a section of an essay named after these objects whose three sections are titled “The Glory of Motion,” “The Vision of Sudden Death,” and “Dream-Fugue.” For 10 points, name this type of carriage which is the subject of an essay by Thomas de Quincey.
English mail coaches
9

163557-)
In a poem with this one-word title, the speaker tries to convince himself that long-distance relationships aren’t that bad by claiming “when we miss by distance our hope’s joining bliss, even then our souls shall kiss.” The speaker of another poem with this title employs two sexual puns in saying that, because he has to die eventually, “’tis best thus to use myself in jest by feigned deaths to die.” That poem’s speaker justifies his departure by saying “Sweetest love, I do not go, for weariness of thee.” A poem with this one-word title includes the three short couplets (*) “And find / what wind,” “And swear / no where,” and “Yet she / will be.” That poem tells the addressee to “teach me to hear mermaids singing” and “get with child a mandrake root.” For 10 points, name this generic title of the John Donne poem usually known by its first line, “Go and catch a falling star.”
“Song”
9

163565-)
Critics often speculate that Karl Marx’s unfinished novel Scorpion and Felix was written in imitation of this book. Francis Bacon’s essay “Of Death” is one of the several texts from which this book’s author lifted passages, rearranging them to suit his own purposes. C. S. Lewis’ Surprised by Joy makes reference to the fact that many paragraphs of this novel begin with the words “my father.” This novel defends itself against a critic by noting that, like (*) Locke’s Essay Concerning Human Understanding, it is “a history-book … of what passes in a man’s own mind.” Bertrand Russell introduced a paradox in which this novel’s narrator writes a diary but takes a year to cover a single day of his life, referencing how this novel doesn’t reach its protagonist’s birth until the third volume. For 10 points, name this novel by Laurence Sterne.
The Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy, Gentlemen
9

163570-)
. This is the setting of a cult classic novel about the adventures of a man named Verdant Green by Cuthbert Bede, whose illustrations were reproduced in a book about this place which also includes photographs by László Moholy-Nagy [muh-“holy” NADZH]. The religious culture of this location is the subject of the philosophical novel Loss and Gain. A book by John Betjeman is named after this location’s (*) “chest.” A novel set in this location includes the oft-quoted line “Death cancels all engagements” and frequently invokes the muse Clio. In that novel, the news that black owls have perched on Tankerton Hall solidifies the Duke of Dorset’s decision to drown himself, a decision emulated by all the undergraduates at this university out of love for the title character. For 10 points, name this setting of Max Beerbohm’s Zuleika Dobson.
Oxford University
9

163583-)
This character’s creator identified him with “fire reflected in water,” in contrast to the “fire blown by the wind” and “fire burning by itself” represented by other characters. This character sees a girl playing between a Sphinx and a Buddha “on the grey rock of Cashel” in a poem about this character’s “double vision.” This character tells a woman that “Paul Veronese and all his sacred company imagined bodies all their days” in a poem which ends with that woman responding “They say such different things at school.” The System is explained by a conversation between (*) Owen Aherne and this character in the first version of A Vision. This man is the first title character of a collection which includes the poems “Easter, 1916” and “The Second Coming.” For 10 points, name this character who is paired with “the dancer” in the title of a W. B. Yeats collection.
Michael Robartes [accept either underlined name]
9

163591-)
Roger Scruton wrote a series of parodic philosophical dialogues named after this person. To answer a question about this person, a character uses a metaphor about horsemen who learn to tame the most strong-willed horses because then they’ll be able to easily manage other horses. This person cries to her husband “This is the last time now that your friends will speak to you or you to them,” so her husband’s friends drag her away wailing. The aforementioned anecdotes about this person are from (*) Xenophon’s Symposium and Plato’s Phaedo, respectively. Supposedly, this mother of Menexenus once emptied a chamber pot on her husband’s head, prompting him to quip that rain comes after thunder. For 10 points, name this proverbially shrewish wife of Socrates.
Xanthippe
9

163602-)
Joan Didion took a line from this poem to title her essay collection about the counterculture movement in the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco. This poem describes the “shadows of indignant desert birds” flying over a figure with “a gaze blank and pitiless as the sun.” This poem describes “the best” losing “all (*) conviction” when a “blood-dimmed tide is loosed,” as well as “a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi.” This poem relents that “things fall apart; the centre cannot hold” as a “rough beast” “slouches towards Bethlehem to be born.” For 10 points, name this Biblically-titled poem written by William Butler Yeats.
“The Second Coming” (The Joan Didion collection is Slouching Towards Bethlehem) &lt;EA, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163609-)
One character with this profession describes losing his queen to Fortuna in a game of chess, which is a metaphor for the death of Lady White. Another character with this profession is accompanied on a pilgrimage by his twenty-year-old son and a yeoman [YO-min]. In one story, a character with this profession is tasked with discovering what (*) women want most. Two men with this profession, Arcite and Palamon, fight over Emily in a story told by a man with this profession in Chaucer’s Canterbury Tales. A “Green” figure with this profession challenges Sir Gawain in one Middle English poem. For 10 points, name these usually chivalrous figures.
knights [or The Knight’s Tale; or Knights of the Round Table] &lt;TB, Short Fiction/Other&gt;
3

163622-)
In this play, a woman trades her ring for a monkey after leaving home along with Lancelet. That woman in this play runs away to marry Lorenzo. Two women in this play dress up as a law clerk and Balthazar and ask their husbands for their wedding rings in exchange for their services. A Moroccan Prince in this play picks a gold (*) casket, losing his chance to marry another woman. The title character of this play almost loses a pound of flesh to a Jewish moneylender. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play about Antonio and the wily Shylock, who work in the title city full of canals.
The Merchant of Venice &lt;EA, Drama&gt;
3

163654-)
The speaker of one poem by this author describes the “unmourning water of the riding Thames” before claiming that “after the first death, there is no other.” Another poem by this author describes characters who “break in the sun till the sun breaks down” and claims “though lovers be lost love shall not.” This man, who wrote “A Refusal to Mourn the Death, by Fire, of a Child in London,” states that “blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay” in his most famous poem, which commands the reader to (*) “rage, rage against the dying of the light.” For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of "And Death Shall have no Dominion" and “Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night.”
Dylan Marlais Thomas &lt;WG, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163670-)
This author founded a publishing house that garnered success with the publishing of The Edwardians, a novel by this author’s lover. In one novel by this author, a plane spells the word “Toffee” in the sky after a loud car crash near a flower store. Another novel by this author describes the deaths of the children Andrew and Prue in the section (*) “Time Passes.” This author, who founded the Hogarth Press with her husband, wrote a novel whose protagonist remembers kissing Sally Seton as a child after hearing about the suicide of Septimus Smith. For 10 points, name this author, who wrote about the Briscoes in To the Lighthouse and an upper-class housewife in Mrs. Dalloway.
Virginia Woolf [accept Leonard Woolf before “lover” is read] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163686-)
One of this author’s characters says that “women are knights-errant to the last” after deciding to take a rape victim and her child to Italy. In that work by this author, the protagonist clashes with Lady Waldemar over her cousin and love interest Romney. This poet described being held by “not Death, but Love” in a sonnet beginning “I thought once how (*) Theocritus had sung.” This author of Aurora Leigh included poems like “Yes, call me by my pet-name!” and “How do I love thee? Let me count the ways” in her most famous collection, which she published after encouragement from her husband, Robert. For 10 points, name this author of Sonnets From the Portuguese.
Elizabeth Barrett Browning [or Elizabeth Moulton-Barrett; accept Elizabeth Browning after “Robert” is read; prompt on Browning before “Robert” is read] &lt;TB, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163734-)
In a novel set in this country, the orphaned Emily St. Aubert escapes the title location with her admirer Du Pont. After witnessing a murder in this country, a woman faints and drops her photographs on the ground, where they get covered in blood, and later marries George Emerson. This country is the setting of Ann Radcliffe’s Gothic novel The Mysteries of (*) Udolpho. In a different novel set in this country, the title character leaves Frederick Winterborne for Mr. Giovanelli before contracting malaria. E.M. Forster’s novel A Room With a View is set in, for 10 points, what country, where Henry James’s character Daisy Miller visits the Colosseum while in Rome?
Italy [or Italia; or Italian Republic; or Repubblica Italiana] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163738-)
In one poem by this writer, the speaker compares the title entity to “some fierce Maenad,” and later asks the title concept to “Make me thy lyre, even as the forest is.” Another poem by this author, written in response to the Peterloo massacre, describes seeing murder with “a mask like Castlereagh.” This man wrote of a “traveler in an (*) antique land” in a poem which describes “the sneer of cold command” of a statue, which commands its viewers to “Look on my Works, ye Mighty, and despair.” For 10 points, name this poet of “The Masque of Anarchy,” “Ode to the West Wind,” and “Ozymandias.”
Percy Bysshe Shelley &lt;WG, Non-Epic Poetry&gt;
3

163766-)
While discussing this event, the Duchess of Sanseverina asks a character if he wouldn’t prefer keeping “thoroughbred horses” rather than pursue a career inspired by this event. Thenardier saves Count Pontmercy’s life while looting bodies after this event in Les Miserables. George (*) Osborne dies at this battle in Vanity Fair. Lord Byron described this battle’s location as “the grave of France” in Childe Harolde’s Pilgrimage and opened Canto 9 of Don Juan [don joo-ahn] by mocking this battle’s winning commander, the Duke of Wellington. For 10 points, name this 1815 battle, a catastrophic defeat for Napoleon.
the Battle of Waterloo &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163790-)
In one play by this author, Adam and Eve realize their own mortality after finding a fawn with a broken neck. That play appears in a series of five plays by this man, whose last one ends with one set in the year 31920 AD. In another play by this author of Back to Methuselah, the protagonist gets kidnapped by Mendoza in a section titled “Don (*) Juan in Hell.” In addition to writing about the anarchist Jack Tanner, this author wrote a play in which one character impresses Clara with her “new small talk.” In that play by this author, phonetics professor Henry Higgin tries to get rid of Eliza Doolittle’s cockney accent. For 10 points, name this author of Man and Superman and Pygmalion.
George Bernard Shaw &lt;WG, Drama&gt;
3

163800-)
In a novel about a man with this profession, the protagonist is convinced to not kill himself after giving up this profession by the Quaker surgeon William Walters. One character with this profession gets into a wild fight with Black Dog before meeting the blind man Pew. In Robinson Crusoe, Crusoe is (*) captured by people of this profession and made into a slave while at Sallee. Other characters of this profession include Ben Gunn, who was stranded on an island for three years while looking for an object whose location is outlined in Billy Bones’ map. For 10 points, name this profession held by many characters in Treasure Island, such as Long John Silver.
pirates [prompt on seafarers, sailors, captains, or any equivalents] &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163823-)
This author began some of his novels with notes from fictional editors named Lawrence Templeton and Jebediah Cleishbotham. In a novel by this author, Jeanie travels to London to get a pardon for her sister, Effie Deans. That novel appears in this author’s Tales of My (*) Landlord collection. In this author’s most famous novel, the archer Locksley is revealed to be Robin Hood, and the title character wins a jousting tournament while disguised as Desdichado. The title character of that novel by this man had earlier fought with King Richard in the crusades and fallen in love with Lady Rowena. For 10 points, name this Scottish author of Ivanhoe.
Walter Scott [or Sir Walter Scott, 1st Baronet] &lt;WG, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163846-)
One of this author’s plays begins with a character complaining that “some speak openly against my books” before declaring that “there is no sin but ignorance.” In that play by this author, the main character forges a letter to Lodowick saying that Matthias challenged him to a duel. Both of those characters vie for the hand of (*) Abigail, whose father seeks revenge on the governor Ferneze. This author wrote a play whose title character learns black magic after making a deal with Mephistopheles. For 10 points, name this English playwright of The Jew of Malta and Doctor Faustus.
Christopher Marlowe [or Kit Marlowe] &lt;EA, Drama&gt;
3

163852-)
The narrator of this novel is misinterpreted as appearing from a hailstorm when he points up at the sun. Later on, the narrator of this novel pulls two white flowers out of his pocket to show to a group of guests after witnessing giant butterflies being chased around by huge red crabs. This novel’s narrator accidentally starts a forest fire with matches he finds in the Palace of (*) Green Porcelain, leading to the death of his friend Weena. The title object of this novel is hidden under a giant Sphinx-like structure by the light-fearing Morlocks, who prey on the harmonious Eloi. For 10 points, name this novel whose narrator travels 800 thousand years into the future, written by H.G. Wells.
The Time Machine &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163859-)
1. In one part of this work, the protagonist and his companion are offered silver by a conman named Demas before taking shelter at the Doubting Castle. A man named Sagacity narrates the second part of this work, which follows a woman named Christiana. The protagonist of this work fights the demon Apollyon while crossing the Valley of (*) Humiliation. This work’s protagonist is instructed by figures such as the Worldly Wiseman, and a man named Faithful is killed while accompanying this work’s protagonist to Vanity Fair. For 10 points, name this work about Christian’s journey to the Celestial City, an allegorical novel by John Bunyan.
The Pilgrim’s Progress from this World, to That Which Is to Come &lt;EA, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163871-)
In “A Room of One’s Own,” Virginia Woolf writes that until this author’s day, women in fiction were “seen only in relation to the other sex.” In one of this author’s novels, the protagonist tells Captain Harville that “Men have had every advantage of us in telling their own story.” In addition to creating Anne Elliott in (*) Persuasion, this author wrote a novel in which Georgiana is prevented from eloping by her brother, the owner of Pemberley. In that novel by this author, the protagonist discovers Wickham’s devious character in a letter from her eventual fiancé, Mr. Darcy. For 10 points, name this author who wrote about Elizabeth Bennet in Pride and Prejudice.
Jane Austen &lt;TB, Long Fiction&gt;
3

163888-)
In this work, Hygelac is killed by the Shylfings before a thief disturbs a barrow. One character in this work kills a monster by ripping off one of its arms and letting it bleed to death. This work starts when the title character, a hero of the Geats, offers his aid to (*) Hrothgar in his mead-hall. The title character of this work dies after fighting a dragon, only aided by his apprentice, Wiglaf. For ten points, name this Anglo-Saxon story featuring an iconic battle against a monster named Grendel and later, its mother.
Beowulf &lt;DS&gt;
5

163918-)
One character in this novel uses the name Morris Boulter when he joins a gang, and another character is sent to a penal colony for stealing a snuffbox. One character in this work accidentally hangs himself while hallucinating about the girlfriend he murdered and is named Bill (*) Sikes. In this novel, Saffron Hill is the headquarters of a gang of pickpockets led by Fagin, a member of which is nicknamed “the Artful Dodger.” For 10 points, name this novel by Charles Dickens whose title orphan begs a workhouse manager, “Please, sir, I want some more.”
Oliver Twist; or, The Parish Boy’s Progress &lt;RY&gt;
5

163932-)
One of this author’s works begins with a soldier asking to “leave [him] here a little, while as yet ‘t is early morn” at the title location. In another work by this author, when the title character looks at Sir Lancelot, her mirror cracks and she is cursed. This author of “Locksley Hall” and “The (*) Lady of Shalott” wrote in one poem that “‘tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.” Asking, “When can their glory fade?” of “the six hundred” that rode “Into the valley of Death,” for 10 points, name this poet of “In Memoriam A. H. H.” and “The Charge of the Light Brigade.”
Alfred, Lord Tennyson &lt;RY&gt;
5

163945-)
. One of this man’s poems describes a sad heart lying “under the moongrey nettles” as rain falls on the title location; that poem is “She Weeps Over Rahoon.” In one of this author’s works, a kitchen is exhaustively inventoried in a chapter that ends with a massive (*) period. One of this man’s characters declares “History is a nightmare from which I am trying to awake” after eating breakfast with Buck Mulligan. That character, for 10 points, is Stephen Dedalus, who appears in what man’s A Portrait of the Artist of a Young Man and Ulysses?
James Augustine Aloysius Joyce &lt;AJ&gt; BONUSES
5

163964-)
This work’s climax sees one character telling his fiancé “most foul, most fair, farewell.” Signs of one of this work’s main characters falling in love include him brushing his hat, shaving his beard, and wearing perfume. One character in this play says “remember that I am an ass” and is named (*) Dogberry, who leads the city’s night watch. Borachio is paid to have sex with Margaret in this play as part of Don John’s scheme to end Claudio and Hero’s relationship. For 10 points, name this Shakespeare play taking place in Messina that ends in the marriage of Beatrice and Benedick.
Much Ado About Nothing &lt;RY&gt;
5

163980-)
A poem from this country says “the coward slave, we pass him by” and is called “Is There for Honest Poverty.” In a novel from this country, Campbell claims to have defeated two highwayman single-handedly, leading Morris to ask him to protect a mysterious box that contains gold coins; that novel is (*) Rob Roy. In another novel from this country, the swineherd Gurth helps Isaac of York escape from Rotherwood, and a poem from this country says that “the best-laid plans of mice and men go often askew.” For 10 points, name this home country of Sir Walter Scott and Robert Burns.
Scotland [accept Alba; prompt on United Kingdom or Britain, do not prompt or accept “England”] &lt;AJ&gt;
5

163992-)
In this work, Ellenore forces her husband Malbecco to choose between her and his money by lighting the money on fire and running into another man’s arms. In this work, a woman falls in love with Arthegall after seeing him in an enchanted mirror. The wizard (*) Archimago tricks this work’s protagonist with a dream into thinking that Una is unchaste. That protagonist is captured by a giant from the trickery of Duessa, who represents the Catholic Church. Guyon and the title character Gloriana, who represents Queen Elizabeth I, appear in, for 10 points, what epic poem by Edmund Spenser?
“The Faerie Queen” &lt;RY&gt;
5

164022-)
This author wrote a work that was famously criticized by William Wotton for its focus on religion. That work is an allegory of the three brothers who represent the three different branches of Christianity. In his most famous work, the main character meets (*) Houyhnhnms (“HOY-nehms”), after escaping to Blefuscu from the country of Lilliput, where he looks like a giant to the tiny residents. For 10 points, name this Anglo-Irish author who wrote satires such as A Tale of A Tub and Gulliver’s Travels.
Jonathan Swift &lt;JH&gt;
5

164037-)
This character, whose name is represented by six hyphens in the play Presumption, says that he “ought to be thy Adam” before describing his early life, including how he was shot in the shoulder after rescuing a girl from a river. This character vows to incinerate himself at the (*) North Pole after discovering that the former fiancé of a woman he had murdered has died of pneumonia. The novel in which this character originally appears is largely told by letters written by Robert Walton. For 10 points, name this character who befriends a blind man after being brought to life by electricity in a Mary Shelley novel.
Frankenstein’s monster [prompt on the Monster; accept word forms and equivalents like Victor Frankenstein’s creation; do not accept or prompt on “Frankenstein”] &lt;AJ&gt;
5

164044-)
Wallace Stevens wrote a work titled after the death of a man of this profession. A work by Ford Madox Ford ends with the suicide of Edward Ashburnham, a man of this profession; that work is titled after a “good” one of these. A character of this profession plunges at the speaker of one poem (*) “guttering, choking, drowning,” and a pair of boots belonging to Kemmerich passes through various characters of this profession in another work. For 10 points, name this profession of characters such as those in Wilfred Owen poems and Paul Baumer in All Quiet on the Western Front.
soldier [accept captain; accept obvious equivalents. First clue is “The Death of a Soldier”; next is “A Good Soldier”; next is “Dulce et Decorum Est”] &lt;RY&gt;
5

164053-)
One character in this work is accused of wasting her life “playing at the one thing one did not play at.” One character in this work asks himself “[if Shakespeare had never existed] would the world have differed much?” In this work, a character blowing out a candle after reading Virgil is described in sentences enclosed by (*) brackets. The deaths of Prue and Andrew are described in the second section of this novel, “Time Passes.” For 10 points, name this novel by Virginia Woolf in which only Cam, James, Lily Briscoe, and Mr. Ramsay end up reaching the title location.
To the Lighthouse &lt;AJ&gt;
5

164084-)
A work by this author states, “The world’s more full of weeping than you can understand,” and another ends, “How can we know the dancer from the dance?” A work by this author describes “a small cabin… of clay and wattles” in the title location and opens, “I will (*) arise and go now.” One poem by this poet of “The Lake Isle of Innisfree” describes “an aged man” as “a tattered coat upon a stick” who comes to the title holy city, and another poem describes a “rough beast” that “slouches toward Bethlehem to be born.” For 10 points, name this poet of “Sailing to Byzantium” and “The Second Coming,” from Ireland.
W. B. Yeats (“YATES”; first two poems clued are "The Stolen Child" and "Among Schoolchildren") &lt;RY&gt;
5

164107-)
One of this author’s works features a rose-garden with a speaking guide-bird and is titled after a manor house in the Cotswolds. This author begins another work with “Because I do not hope to turn again.” This author of “Burnt Norton” writes that he has measured out “life with (*) coffee spoons” in one poem, and describes women coming and going “talking of Michelangelo.” Another one of his poems ends by repeating the word “Shantih” and begins “April is the cruelest month." For 10 points, name this poet of “The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock” and “The Waste Land.”
T. S. Eliot [second sentence is “Ash Wednesday”] &lt;RY&gt;
5

164124-)
In the beginning of this work, a drunk old man has a stroke after beating a stranger missing two fingers in a fight. That same drunkard soon dies from a second stroke after a visit from a blind man named Pew. In this novel the main character hides in an apple barrel aboard a ship and Cap’n (*) Flint is the pet bird of a man pretending to be a ship cook. That man, also known as Barbeque, leads a mutiny against Captain Smollett once the ship is anchored. For 10 points, name this novel by Robert Louis Stevenson where Jim Hawkins helps repel pirate mutineers.
Treasure Island, or the Mutiny of the Hispaniola &lt;AD&gt;
5

164142-)
In one play, a character with this first name saves his older brother Oliver from a lioness, and another character with this name makes a sailor almost fall off a ship after accidentally flashing an ankle. That title character of a Virginia Woolf novel shares this first name with a (*) crossdressing character who marries Rosalind in As You Like It. A paladin of Charlemagne with this first name goes mad with love for Angelica. For 10 points, give this first name of the title character of a Ludovico Ariosto epic poem whose last name is Furioso.
Orlando [accept Orlando de Boys or Orlando Furioso; Woolf work is Orlando: A Biography] &lt;AJ/RY&gt;
5

164159-)
In one of this author’s works, the aspiring philosopher Stewart Ansell refuses to acknowledge Agnes Pembroke, and later in that work, Rickie learns that Stephen is his half-brother through their mother, not father. This author of The Longest Journey wrote a work in which a proposal is only accepted after being rejected (*) twice; that proposal is from Cecil Vyse. In another novel by this author, a character gets offended when asked if he has more than one wife, and Adela Quested falsely accuses Dr. Aziz of rape. For 10 points, name this author of Room with a View and A Passage to India.
E. M. Forster [accept Edward Morgan Forster] &lt;RY&gt;
5

