92562-)
This figure lost his first wife after she bounced so high she hit her head on the moon. He won a wrestling match with the Bear Lake Monster and wore a rattlesnake necktie. This figure was raised by coyotes until the age of fifteen and attempted to ride a tornado like a horse, creating Death Valley when he finally fell off. For 10 points, name this cowboy hero of American folklore.
Pecos Bill [prompt on Bill]
1

97563-)
A god who took this form was offered two sacrifices who floated on a calabash, but was unable toaccept them, and had to be propitiated in order to build embankments. A god who took this form crushedthe bones out of a creature for failing to retrieve a monkey's liver. A god who took this form was the fatherof Otohime and through her the grandfather of emperor Jimmu. That god who took this form used threejewels to control the tides. A god who took this form was to receive Kushi-inada-him as a sacrifice, but shewas turned into a comb and this god was defeated by Susanowo. For 10 points, name this form of Japanesedeities and monsters such as Mizuchi, Ryjin, and Yamata no Orochi.
dragons [or serpents; prompt on snakes]
9

98711-)
In one story about this figure, he tricks a man into thinking he can diagnose the black murrain in order to kill some sheep and throw them in a river. This figure was often challenged to contests by people who wanted to win his prized single red feather, which he wore to signify his physical prowess. This figure was alternately nicknamed "the Snag" and "the Snapping-Turtle," and is frequently described in stories as "half-horse, half-alligator." Most accounts of his death agree that he was murdered by Talbott for killing his friend Carpenter. This figure used his gun Bang-All to shoot tin cups of whiskey off of people's heads. He declared "I'm a Salt River roarer! I'm a ring-tailed squealer" in his "brag," which may have been addressed to Davy Crockett. For 10 points, name this figure from American folklore who sailed the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers as the king of the keelboaters.
Mike Fink
8

130342-)
In one story involving this figure, a tree is endowed with propitious qualities when this figure throws the sheep at the tree. In another story, this figure took on the guise of a hunter and built a pool in order to woo his love interest. After following that lover down a stream, both he and that lover turned into ducks. This figure also did battle with a rock named Iya, whom he had earlier covered with his (*) blanket. One comrade of this figure dug holes in the earth, which forced an enemy to give up his weaponry and lead to his death at the hand of this figure. This creature also made it impossible for living things to return from death, when he embraced his consort a day too early. In a myth of the Karuk people, Frog, Chipmunk and Squirrel helped this figure steal fire from the Fire-Beings. For ten points, name this brother of Puma, a Native American trickster figure.
Coyote
7

156015-)
Houyi defeated a god of this phenomenon who took the form of a one-eyed bull with a serpent’s tail. A mace-wielding god of this phenomenon is the father of Bhima in Hindu mythology. Marduk kills Tiamat by gathering this phenomenon and sending it through her body. With the harpy Podarge, a god of this phenomenon fathered the talking horses Balius and Xanthus, and with his wife Orithyia (ori-THIGH-uh), fathered the twins Calais (kuh-LAY-iss) and Zetes (ZEE-teez). In Shintoism, this phenomenon was controlled by Fujin (FOO-jeen), the brother of Raijin (RYE-jeen). In Greek mythology, it was personified by four deities known as the Anemoi. Odysseus and his crew are given a bag of this phenomenon by Aeolus. For 10 points, name this meteorological phenomenon controlled by Zephyrus.
wind [prompt on weather] &lt;The above question is for the category RMP Non-Greek/Roman Myth and was written by Rohith Nagari&gt;
7

