59803-)
In one story, this figure's wife was trapped as a frog in a well for twelve years before being transformed into a beautiful woman. This figure won a sword for shaking a mountain; in another story, he recites the Sama Veda while trapped under that same mountain. This figure's son is ultimately defeated by the aindrastra, which was thrown by a man whose life was saved when Droganiri Mountain was brought to the battlefield. This being's brother sleeps for six months at a time and wakes up ravenously hungry; that brother is named Kumbhakarna. This figure stole Pushpaka, the chariot of his half-brother Kubera. Surpanaka, this being's sister, triggers the conflict that leads to this figure's death when she encourages him to abduct Sita. For 10 points, name this ruler of Lanka, a demon who is defeated by Rama in the Ramayana.
Ravana
8

76532-)
His beard turned red due to the brightness of the flaming discus used to slay Jalamdhara, and Kartikeya was born as a result of a boon this deity granted Taraka that made him nearly invincible.  His two halves are referred to as Purusha and Satrap, and the Prajapatis were born from the head of this figure.  Growing five heads in order to never lose sight of Shatarupa, he lost one after lying about reaching one end of the lingam.  His city is located atop Mount Meru, and Sarasvati is his consort.  For 10 points, identify this member of the trimurti, the Hindu god of creation.
Brahma [do not accept Brahman or Brahmana]
3

82934-)
Ahalya comes back to life when this character’s feet touch a stone. He gains his wife by bending Rudra’s great bow, and he conquers his nemesis with the help of that enemy’s brother Vi·bhi·sha·na. Towards the end of a work in which he appears, he finds his sons Lava and Kusha fighting his horse, and this son of Dash·rat·ha and Kau·shal·ya was banished by Kai·ke·yi from A·yodh·ya. He lives in exile for fourteen years with his half brother Lakshman, and a bunch of monkeys built a bridge to Sri Lanka to rescue his wife Sita from Ravana back to Hanuman. For 10 points, name the seventh avatar of Vishnu who names an Indian epic poem.
Rama [GT/GK]
4

93013-)
Temples dedicated to this god include the Trimbakeshwar and Ramanaswathamy. Five is a sacred number to this god, which is reflected in his namesake "Five Mantras". His sons are Kartikeya and Ganesha. Although he's not Vishnu, this god has a number of avatars, and his wife is (*) Parvati. For 10 points, name this Hindu god which, along with Brahma and Vishnu, makes up the Hindu trimurti, a "destroyer" god.
Shiva [accept Shiva the Destroyer, Shiva the Transformer]
1

126934-)
One of these objects is in the possession of King Janaka until a hero picks it up and accidentally breaks it.  Vurna gives one of these objects named Gandiva to a warrior who is attempting to help Agni burn down a forest. That character later uses one of these objects to make a deathbed for his mentor Bhisma. One of the Pandavas uses one of these objects while staring at a pool of water to win Draupadi's hand in marriage. Kamadeva is generally depicted holding one of these objects made of bees and sugarcane, and the warrior who rides in Krishna's chariot during the war in the Mahabharata specializes on this weapon. For 10 points, what is the primary weapon of Arjuna?
bows [or bows and arrows; prompt on just "arrows"]
6

147151-)
This deity convinced a moon god to return Tara to her husband Brhaspati. He tricked Taraka into accepting a boon of limited invulnerability and talked the ketaki flower into lying about his having traveled to the end of a huge burning lingam. The sage Daksha was born from the right thumb of this inhabitant of Satyaloka. His ten children share a collective title with the Vedic god with whom he was identified, Prajapati. He rides a (*) swan, like his wife Saraswati, and he is often depicted holding a water pot, a sacrificial ladle, a string of prayer beads, and a copy of the Vedas. He was born from a lotus that grew out of Vishnu’s navel. For 10 points, name this four-headed, four-armed “creator” member of the Hindu Trimurti.
Brahma [accept Brahm (eliding the final ‘a’); do not accept “Brahman” or “Brahmana” or “Brahmin” or “Brahms”, but do accept “hey remember that IS-set tossup on the letters ‘B-R-A-H-M’, wasn’t that a trip”]
6

150414-)
Description acceptable. This period is reimagined in the story of a man who saves a snake in a burning tree; that snake transforms him into an ugly dwarf, allowing him to return to his beloved. During this period, a retelling of a Jataka tale describes a king who offers increasingly larger portions of his flesh to placate a hawk trying to kill a dove. Toward the end of this period, a series of 124 ethical questions is asked to a man who witnesses men go one by one to fetch water after witnessing a deer steal a priest’s firebrand. This period takes up the entirety of the Vana and Virata parvas, and is directly caused by an event (*) won using magical objects belonging to Shakuni. This period is spent in the Kamyaka and Dwaita forests and is immediately followed by preparations for the Kurukshetra war. For 10 points, name this event precipitated by Yudhishthira losing a dice game, an event in which five brothers were forced to leave the kingdom for thirteen years.
exile of the Pandavas [or banishment of the Pandavas or equivalents] (The first clue describes Nala and Damayanti; the second clue describes King Shibi.) &lt;AK, Legends&gt;
8

152959-)
In one story, this figure stopped another character from killing himself after failing to complete this figure’s challenge to build a bridge made of arrows. That character, Arjuna, later placed a flag depicting this figure on his chariot. While young, this figure was struck in the chin by the Vajra for trying to eat what he thought was a mango while later in life he carried a mountain back to save his friend (*) Lakshmana. In order to prove his allegiance, this figure provided a woman with a ring from her husband after he had shrunk in order to enter a city undetected. Later, this figure set that city on fire with his tail. For ten points name this monkey son of Vayu who in the Ramayana helped Rama save Sita from Ravana.
Hanuman &lt;McLain&gt;
5

155385-)
Chapter 6 of Erich von Däniken’s Chariots of the Gods cites this text’s mention of a horseless flying vehicle full of flowers as evidence of ancient astronauts. Late in this text, two young boys capture a horse with a golden plate that their father sent out around the country to demand allegiance. A key betrayal in this text occurs when a queen remembers two wishes that her husband granted to her after being reminded by a hunchbacked wet nurse. A character in this text reaches an island with a single leap and later escapes by leaping from roof to roof while his tail is on fire. This text’s hero and his brother are exiled to a forest for fourteen years thanks to their mother Kaikeyi. The hero of this epic receives the help of monkeys who build a bridge to Lanka, where he defeats the kidnapper of his wife Sita. For 10 points, name this epic in which Ravana is defeated by an avatar of Vishnu.
Ramayana [accept sub-sections of the Ramayana, such as the Bala Kanda or Sundara Kanda]
7

158123-)
This god transforms ten million idle and unfocused gods into stone when they oversleep on the morning of a journey. In another myth, this god’s mount transforms into a shark in order to find this god’s wife, who has been transformed into a fisherwoman. This god judges a contest between a pair of rival gods while in the form of a (*) pillar of fire. This god’s devotee Ravana spends one thousand years crushed underneath this god’s home of Mount Kailash. In his capacity as the “lord of dance”, or nata·raja, this father of Ganesha is often depicted alongside his wife Parvati. For 10 points, name this Hindu god of destruction who forms a trinity with Brahma and Vishnu.
Shiva &lt;HK&gt;
4

158731-)
In the Mahabharata, Indra agrees not to kill one of these animals with anything dry or wet, or at day or night, but finds a loophole by killing him with sea foam at twilight. Shiva has one of these animals named Vasuki on his neck, and a Minoan goddess was often depicted holding two of these animals in her hands. In (*) Australian mythology, this kind of animal lives in waterholes that never dry up and represent rainbows. In Norse myth, one of these animals was slain by Thor and had encircled the world. One of these animals created from spit and dirt by Isis bit Ra. For 10 points, name these animals, one of which tricked Eve into eating the Forbidden Fruit.
snake [accept serpent] &lt;AL/RY&gt;
4

159331-)
In one story, the skin of one of these deities turns black after an encounter with a frenzied Shiva, who had just been shot by one of Kama’s magic arrows. A female one of these deities is honored along with her brother in the festival of Bhai-Dooj. That god, a daughter of the sun god Surya, is a twin of Yama. One of these deities was called to earth after the sixty thousand sons of Sagar were killed by the sage Kapila. After drowning the first seven of her children with Shantanu, that deity gave birth to a personification of Dyaus named Bhishma. One of these gods was held within the hair of Shiva after threatening to destroy the world and was created from the sweat of Vishnu’s feet. One of these gods is often depicted riding her mount Makara, who is half mammal and half fish. For 10 points, name these gods, who embody features like the Yamuna and the Ganges.
river gods [or water gods; accept equivalents for “river” or “water”; prompt on Hindu gods] &lt;Mythology&gt;
7

