81808-)
In one poem titled for this figure, Odin disguises himself as Vegtam to find out why this deity is having bad dreams, and in the Gesta Danorum he is badly wounded by Miming's sword. The dwarf Lit died on one of this god's possessions, and that possession was launched by Hyrokkin. The land of "fewest baneful runes" was home to his hall Breidablik, and his brother Hermod was denied while petitioning on his behalf by the giantess Thokk, really Loki in disguise. This owner of the ship Hringhorn was the father of Forseti by Nanna, and Vali was born to avenge his death. For 10 points, identify this Norse god of light, killed with a mistletoe dart by his brother Hodr.
Baldur [accept Balderus or Phol]
6

97726-)
One of this god's sons drowned while visiting Frode when he slipped and fell into a vat of mead. This owner of the horse Blodughofi was attended by Byggvir and Beyla and received the realm of Alfheim as a teething gift. One account details how his aforementioned son Fjolnir succeeds him as king in Uppsala, where he was also known as Yngvi. This god defeated Beli with an antler after giving his magic sword, which fights all by itself, to his servant Skirnir in order to help woo the giantess Gerd; unfortunately, this leaves him weaponless at Ragnarok, where he is killed by Surtr. He arrived at Baldr's funeral on his golden boar Gullinbursti, and he also traveled on his folding ship Skidbladnir. This member of the Vanir was the son of Njord. For 10 points, identify this Norse fertility god, the brother of Freya.
Freyr ["Frey" or "Freyr", but not "Freya"]
7

124768-)
The Hyndlujoth records that this man's strength comes from the earth, the ice-cold sea, and the blood of swine. In fact, the names of his parents are merely adjectives for the sea. One of his possessions is currently hidden underneath the Yggdrasil tree. A kenning for mankind is the "doom of" this god, while a kenning for (*) head is the "sword of" this god, which is named Hofund. Sometimes called Hallinskidi or Gullintanni, this resident of Himinbiorg can hear the grass grow and has golden teeth. He will be killed by Loki at Ragnarok, which starts when he blows the Gjallarhorn. For 10 points, name this son of nine-billow maidens, who guards over Bifrost.
Heimdall
9

157993-)
This deity discovers the ability to use magical items such as fehu [FAY-hoo], uruz [OOH-rooz], and ansuz [AHN-sooz]. He listens to a prophecy about the end of the world in an anonymous poem titled the Völuspá [VOH-loo-SPAH]; in another text, this deity disguises himself as a trio of wise men named High, Just-As-High, and Third. In the Grímnis·mál, this god witnesses the reign of his cruel foster-son Geirröth [“GUY”-“roth”] from his high (*) throne that allows him to see the entire world. This owner of Hlid·skjalf [H’LEED-sk’yahlf] also possesses the duplicating ring Draup·nir, and rides the eight-legged horse Sleip·nir. For 10 points, name this “all-father” from Norse mythology.
Odin [or Wotan; or Wodanaz] &lt;AF&gt;
4

158077-)
In the Poetic Edda, one of these animals is the mount of the völva Hyndla. Four warriors are unable to control one of these animals ridden by a giantess at the funeral of Balder. A tool intended for one of these animals is created using thought-to-be-nonexistent items such as a woman’s beard and the sound of a cat’s footsteps. Due to the actions of one of these animals, the god (*) Tyr [“tier”] is missing his right hand. During Ragnarök, a great boot made by Vidarr is used to kill one of these animals named Fenrir. For 10 points, name this animal into which a ly·can·thrope transforms during the full moon.
wolf [or Canis lupus or C. lupus; accept werewolf; do not accept “dog”] &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

