66882-)
One god of this domain has four minor gods named after himself, one each for the cardinal directions. One figure got this from the Milky Way, which he kept in a jug; that was the Incan Ilyap’a. One figure who controlled this became associated with Atonatiuh and lived on his mountain with Chal·chi·huit·li·cue. That god, like Quetzalcoatl, had a mask of serpents, and was the object of great fear and child sacrifices for his propensity to wreak havoc on the Aztecs. For 10 points, name this weather phenomenon whose gods included the Mayan Chac and the Aztec Tlaloc and which is often seen in storms.
rain gods [accept thunder gods; prompt on "weather" until mentioned]
6

68605-)
According to this people, the god Kiaklo, who imparts all myths to this people, dug his own eyes out after he tried to seduce his sister Siwiluhsitsa, though he regained sight from the light of the fire god Shulawitsi. This people shares Paiteyuma, the clown companion of the sun, with the neighboring Keresan peoples, and one of their myths blames the incest among members of the Corn Clan for a great flood. Another tale of this people holds that death remains in the world because a youth could not stop himself from touching his wife, after she was brought from the Lake of the Dead for him by the owl people, and the existence of winter is attributed to Coyote's curiosity drove him to open the box containing the sun and the moon allowing them to fly away. In one creation myth attributed to this people, all living creatures were trapped in the womb of the Earth Mother, until she, taking the form of a woman, visited her own surface and was assured of nature's ability to sustain them. That myth was dubiously recorded by Frank Cushing, who wrote several works on this people after living with them for five years, and like other tribes of their region, they are known for their kachina
Zuni
9

76112-)
In one story, this mythological figure, who was often depicted in the company of a bird and a squirrel, asks Nera to speak to the dead on Samhain. This figure's marriage is described in a section of the Book of Lecan known as the "Cath Boinde," which also reveals how this figure acquired the court of Cruachan.Killed by a man with a slingshot while bathing in a pool, this figure was succeeded by one of seven sons, Maine Athramail. In the most well known story about this figure, whose lust earned her the epithet "the friendly-thighed," she seduces Fergus Mac Roiche in an attempt to win an argument with her husband, Ailill; an event that precipitates an attack on Ulster and the theft of the Brown Bull of Cooley. For 10 points, identify this queen of Connacht whose forces kill Cuchulainn.
Medb or Maeve
8

76773-)
A hawthorn branch from this town that unusually flowers in the winter as well as the spring is a traditional gift to the monarch. Iron oxide deposits under this town give the water of one of its wells a reddish hue, leading to legends about the healing properties of the well. It contains the ruins of the Benedictine Abbey of St. Mary, which according to legend became the First Christian church in England when it was founded by Joseph of Arimathea, who brought the Holy Grail to this town. In 1191, monks digging here discovered the supposed graves of Arthur and Guinevere. Only the tower of St. Michael's Church remains atop the terraced conical "tor" that towers over this town. This town neighbors the town of Pilton, where a "Pyramid Stage" is annually built for a major musical festival. For 10 points, name this town in Somerset, England that is sometimes identified as the mythical Avalon.
Glastonbury
8

84456-)
In their pantheon, the Bacabs were a group of four gods who held up the sky while Tepeu was one of the gods associated with their creation.  Another of their deities, closely related to Cocijo, was associated with rains and floods and was named Chac.  Their underworld, accessible through the ball court, was known as Xibalba [she-bal-ba] and was described in their epic, the Popul Vuh.  With a religion practiced at places like Palenque and Tikal, for 10 points each, identify this culture primarily of the Yucatan Peninsula that are not the Aztecs.
Maya
3

116842-)
The sexless kurgarru and kalaturru were sent to negotiate with and flatter this goddess.  This goddess's younger sister once tried to claim rulership of this goddess's domain after entering a temple of lapis lazuli dedicated to this goddess, or else paid a visit on the occasion of the death of this goddess's husband Gugalanna, the Bull of Heaven.  She told her porter Neti to let her sister in, but forced her sister to strip off clothes and jewels at each of seven gates, then killed her when she was naked.  FTP, name this ruler of the Great Below and sister of Inanna, the Sumerian death goddess.
Ereshkigal
9

126498-)
In a myth of these people, a man plants orange trees around his house and sticks a silver pin in his head to ward off a death-spirit who nevertheless kills him with an iron hammer. A god of these people captured his wife by drawing lines on the ground that grew into a copper castle, then defeated her father in a three-part metamorphosis contest. That god of these people is accompanied by swan-riding attendants and multi-colored, music-producing clouds. A queen and king of these people were born on the same day at different forest wells, she from the rib of a cockatrice and he from an egg watched over by a white horse. After remaining in a cave for 100 days while eating only garlic and mugwort, a bear transformed into a woman who became the mother of these people's first king, Dangun, as related in the Samguk Yusa. For 10 points, identify these people who created founding myths for kingdoms like Silla and Gojoseon.
Koreans [or Hanguk-in; or Joseon-in]
8

132669-)
One instance of these figures was conceived when a Changing Woman sunbathed nude and was warmed by the rays of the sun. Her progeny would be aided by Spider Woman in a journey to the father, the sun, who bestowed flint armor and lightning and rainbow arrows, used to slay monsters in Navajo myth. Another instance of these figures swapped a torch flame for a toucan feather and cigars for fireflies in a series of feats that kept them alive until Hunahpu had his head sliced off in the Bat House. As well as these characters from the Popul Vuh, Alcmene's son Iphicles is another instance of this group, along with Heracles. For ten points, name these mythological figures who include Castor and Pollux, born at the same time from the same woman.
twins [Monster Slayer twins, Hero twins, etc. Prompt, I suppose, on brothers or siblings.]
9

143768-)
In Slavic mythology, porcelain cups would be used to store the souls of those on whom the Vodyanoy inflicted this fate, and Rusalka were people who suffered this fate. In Mexico, a creature would inflict this fate while crying, “Oh my children!” and was named “La Llorona,” or the (*) “Weeping Woman.” Tlaloc most notably ruled over people who died in this fashion, and the Scottish Kelpie would pretend to be a horse to try to inflict this fate on children. After he flew too close to the sun and his wings melted, Icarus died in this manner. For 10 points, name this manner in which the Atlanteans most likely died when their city sunk into the sea.
drowning (accept anything involving dying in the water; prompt on dying)
4

147507-)
A text titled “Tales of the Elders” from this country is framed around two of its heroes narrating its stories to a Christian visitor. In a story from this country, a spear thrown from the foot ends a three-day duel fought in a ford. A cycle of epic poems was allegedly written by one of its heroes, the son of a man who built a bridge of basalt pillars joining this country with its eastern neighbor. A hero from this country tied himself to a rock so he could die standing, which occurred shortly after he ate dog meat, and singlehandedly defeated the forces of Queen Medb (“mave”) during the Cattle Raid of Cooley. For 10 points, name this country whose heroes include Ossian, Cuchulainn and Finn McCool.
Ireland [or Eire]
6

153449-)
Robert de Boron attributed this man’s behavior to being suckled on peasant breast milk. This man kicks a female dwarf senseless after she mocks Efrog’s son as a paragon of chivalry and knighthood even though this man offends Peredur. In the Welsh tradition, this man died at the hands of Menestyr’s son Gwyddawg. This man taunts Calogrenant for his defeat by Esclados, prompting (*) Yvain to avenge his cousin. In the Tale of Culhwch and Olwen, this man traps the giant Dillon Farfog in order to obtain his beard. Legends about this man’s ability to hold his breath for nine days and nine nights earned him a spot among the Three Enchanter Knights of Britain. This man is commanded to cut off the head of a giant terrorizing Mont Saint Michel when his lord is on his way to fight Emperor Lucius. This knight’s forgetfulness causes his foster brother to pull a sword from a stone. For 10 points, name this son of Sir Ector who served as the seneschal, or steward, at King Arthur’s court.
Sir Kay [or Sir Cai] &lt;Mythology/Geography/Current Events&gt;
9

153544-)
A resident of this place says he does not need a beard to be wise because if beards caused wisdom goats and sheep would be smarter than humans. Veikko Vaananen compiled the most complete original text about this location, which is described in the first of the Kildare poems. Residents of this location who sleep until noon earn the most money but cannot use it to buy anything. Women in this location have equal rights and are encouraged to (*) sleep with men they like in the middle of the street. When residents of this location refuse to stop flying, a man beats a maiden’s bare ass like a drum until they land. To reach this island west of Spain you must walk through pig shit for seven years. The Fountain of Youth in this location only works for people who are at least thirty years old. Monks kidnap skinny-dipping nuns in this location where Lent happens every twenty years but Christmas and Mardi Gras are celebrated four times a year. A river of half red wine, half white wine flows through this location where walls are made of fish and roofs are bacon. For 10 points, name this land of plenty from Medieval myth.
Cockaigne [or Cockayne or Cockaengen; do not accept or prompt on “utopia” or “paradise”] &lt;Mythology&gt;
9

157057-)
Giewont is associated with a myth of this type in Polish folklore, and one of these myths provides a Székely [SAY-kay] nickname for the Milky Way and concerns the Hunnic prince Csaba. Another myth of this type concerns Holger Danske and the Kronborg Castle. (*) Drake's Drum is the subject of a myth of this type, while the Kyffhäuser in Germany is associated with one of these myths concerning Frederick Barbarossa. This kind of myth casts Constantine XI as “Marble Emperor.” For 10 points, name this type of myth that gives King Arthur the epithet “the once and future king.”
King in the mountain [accept King under the mountain; accept Kyffhäuser myth before it is read; accept sleeping hero or sleeping army; accept folklore motif D 1960.2 and tell the player that Tom Hill is buying them a drink; accept any description of the idea of a figure lying dormant in some place with the prospect of returning in a time of need] &lt;HO&gt;
7

157979-)
A Hindu goddess who consumes this substance goes on a rampage until she accidentally steps on her husband and bites her tongue in remorse. In the Puranas, Rakta·bija uses this substance to regenerate himself until he is killed by Kali. This substance is mixed with ground-up bones to create the fifth age of (*) humans of Aztec mythology. In the Saga of the Volsungs, consuming this substance enables Sigurd to understand the language of birds. An analog of this substance called ichor [“ICK”-er] is present in the bodies of Greek deities. For 10 points, name this substance that’s consumed by vampires.
blood [accept dragon’s blood] &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

158124-)
In Mesopotamian legend, these animals form the bodies of a group of seven sages called the apkallu. In Japanese folklore, the god Kashima restrains one of these animals named Namazu, who causes earthquakes whenever it breaks free. The head of a goat and the body of this animal characterizes Capricorn, the namesake of the constellation. In an Irish myth, one of these animals (*) eats nine hazelnuts that fall into a well. This animal form is taken by Vishnu’s first avatar, Matsya. While cooking one of these animals, Finn MacCool burns his thumb. For 10 points, name this type of animal represented by the constellation Pisces.
fish [or fishes; accept catfish; accept salmon; accept namazu until mentioned; accept bradán; accept bradán feasa [F’YAH-sah]] &lt;AF&gt;
4

158179-)
In a Slavic myth, one of these objects is stolen every night by a mysterious culprit whom the tsar orders hunted down and defeated. Some of these objects are held onto by a group that includes Aegle [EE-glee], Ery·theia [“airy”-THEE-ah], and a hundred-headed dragon. In Greek myth, these objects are used as distractions during a (*) footrace instigated by Hippo·menes [hih-PAW-muh-neez]. In Latin, the word for one of these objects is nearly homophonous with the word for “evil.” In Norse mythology, these objects are guarded by Bragi’s wife Idunn. The Garden of the Hesperides [heh-“SPARE”-ih-deez] is home to “golden” varieties of—for 10 points—what fruit that was awarded to Aphro·dite in the lead-up to the Trojan War?
apple [or malum; accept golden apple; prompt on fruit before “fruit”] &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

158225-)
A myth of these people describes a pair of youths who trick their elder brothers into climbing a tree that continually grows taller. In another of their myths, a demon is crushed to death by a mountain after trying to eat a delicious-looking fake crab. These people told of a bird demon whose eyes and teeth are pulled out after he pretends to be the Sun and the Moon. The bat god Cama·zotz lives in the underworld ruled by (*) One Death and Seven Death in these people’s epic about Hu·nah·pu [hoo-nah-POO] and Xba·lan·que [sh’ba-lahn-KAY], the Hero Twins. The Popol Vuh [POH-pohl VOO] was authored by, for 10 points, what Meso·american civilization whose Long Count calendar most recently ended on December 21, 2012?
Maya people [or Mayan people; accept K’iche’ Maya]v &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

159586-)
After his travels with a non-basketball-playing Moritz Wagner, Karl von Scherzer published this work in Europe for the first time. Dennis Tedlock produced the definitive English translation of this work, which features a demonic bird creature who pretends to be the sun and moon. During the first section of this work, humans are made out of wood, but those wooden people are then destroyed by their creator, (*) Kukulkan. After a character in this work is decapitated, his severed head is used for a competition in which the Lords of Death are defeated. This work survives today due to a single copy translated into Spanish in the early 18th century by Francisco Ximénez. For 10 points, name this work that includes the adventures of the Hero Twins as well as the Mayan creation myth.
Popol Vuh [or Popol Wuj] &lt;DM, Mythology&gt;
6

