73147-)
Robert Cook published an influential work on this figure and her children. Born at Mount Sipylus to a certain
Lydian king and the goddess Dione, she was the sister of Broteas. She is represented in the third movement of
Britten’s Six Metamorphoses after Ovid, and her tears are mentioned in Hamlet’s Act 1 soliloquy. Chloris, Ogygia,
Phaedimus, Eudoxa and Damisichthon were some of her numerous children, whose father was Amphion. In one
version of the myth, she is the daughter of Assaon, who burned all her children to death after she refused to commit
incest with him. The sister of Pelops and daughter of Tantalus, for 10 points, name this grieving figure turned into a
rock after watching Apollo and Artemis slaughter her 14 children.
Niobe
7

76028-)
This man failed to kill his enemy's bastard son Halesus, and his own children included Aletes and Erigone. After being sheltered for a time at the court of King Cylarabes, he chose to ignore a warning from Hermes and instead pursued an opportunity that resulted from Nauplius's quest for revenge. His father was also his grandfather, having raped his daughter Pelopia to produce this man.One story of his death states that he was fooled by an urn supposedly containing his killer's ashes presented to him by Pylades. He had earlier killed the twin sons of Cassandra and stabbed his enemy twice after his co-conspirator threw a net over that enemy. His adulterous co-conspirator then took an axe and beheaded this man's enemy in a bathtub. For 10 points, name this son of Thyestes who slew Atreus and convinced Clytemnestra to kill Agamemnon.
Aegisthus
8

76417-)
In one account, this figure died after a group of handmaidens dressed as the Furies and hung her from a tree; in that account, she was driven from her home by Nicostratus and found refuge with Tlepolemus and Polyxo. In another story, Hermes created an image of this woman out of clouds while she took refuge in Egypt. Her daughter Hermione later married Neoptolemous, and this daughter of Tyndareus was rescued by the Dioscuri after Pirithous and Theseus attempted to kidnap her. Born from an egg laid by swan, FTP, name this husband of Menelaus and daughter of Zeus and Leda, who’s kidnapping by Paris began the Trojan War.
Helen of Troy
7

82628-)
One story claims that this figure was told by Apollo to father sons with Tyro, his brother's wife. With his brothers Athamas, Cretheus, and Salmoneus, he was the son of Enarete and Aeolus, though some claim that he was a son of Autolycus. This figure discovered the body of Melicertes on the coast of Corinth, later founding the Isthmian games in his honor. He twice avoided death, once by requesting that his wife Merope refuse to honor him after his death and once chaining up Thanatos to thwart Hades. For 10 points, identify this King of Corinth who was cursed to spend eternity in Tartarus rolling a boulder up a hill, only to have it roll back down.
Sisyphus
5

83705-)
One of this figure's offspring attacked Leto or Artemis in Panopaeus, but was killed and sent to Tartarus, where snakes devoured his liver; that son of this deity was Tityus. Another of this deity's sons was conceived with Aether; Thaumas, Ceto, and Phorcys were among the sons of this goddess and that son Pontus. The dragon Campe guarded other offspring of this goddess in Tartarus, but this goddess's grandson later released those sons, the Hecatonchires and the Cyclopes. She created an adamantine sickle to aid her grandson in overthrowing her most famous son, Cronus. For 10 points, identify this daughter of Chaos and mother of the titans, the Greek goddess of the Earth.
Gaia [accept Gaea or Gea]
6

87751-)
According to Pausanias, the statue of Britomartis in the temple of Olous was made by him, and in the Iliad, Homer calls him the creator of a wide dancing-ground.  The son of Metion, after arriving in Sicily, he built a temple to Apollo and was taken in by King Cocalus, whose daughters murdered his former employer.  The partridge avoids high places because his nephew, the inventor of the saw, was turned into one by Athena after he tried throwing Perdix off a tower, and his identity is revealed through a riddle about a sprial seashell.  At the request of Pasiphae he made a wooden cow, he was locked up after (*) Ariadne fled, but in his escape his son didn't listen and ended up drowning.  FTP, identify this mythological inventor, the father of Icarus and the man who built, and then escaped from, the labyrinth.
Daedalus
4

92168-)
Most stories hold that this deity, not Athena, blinded the prophet Tiresias (TYE-ree-see-uhs). Shec ursed the nymph Echo to repeat only what others had said. This figure gave birth to Hephaestus (heh-FESS-tuss) and later threw him out of Olympus because of his ugliness. After her husband impregnated Leto (LEE-toh), she refused to let Leto give birth on land. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess and wife of Zeus.
Hera
1

96540-)
In one legend, this man founded the city of Ephyra, which was filled with people created from mushrooms, although in another, he was given the city by Medea. This man fathered two sons with Tyro, and then blamed their death on his brother, Salmoneus. After branding the hooves of his cows, this man discovered they were being stolen by Autolycus. Following the death of his nephew Melicertes, this man founded the Isthmian games. This figure's demise started when he told the river god Asopus about Zeus's abduction of Aegina. This man managed to handcuff either Hades or Thanatos, and later told his wife Merope to leave him unburied, allowing him to come back to the world of the living. For 10 points, name this figure from Greek myth who was punished to eternally roll a boulder up a hill.
Sisyphus
7

98998-)
One of these entities was romantically pursued by Tyro, who was tricked into instead sleeping with Poseidon, resulting in the births of Pelias and Neleus; that one is called Enipeus. Another of these beings had nine daughters including Thespia, Thebe, and Corcyra, who were abducted by four gods. That one of these may be a syncretization of Phliasian and Boeotian progenitors, as all are named Asopus. Another one of these deities has the alternative name Xanthos and fought alongside the Trojans after figures like Lycaon covered it with blood. For 10 points, name these children of Oceanus and Tethys, one example of which that fought Achilles was named Scamander.
river deities
8

111261-)
This goddess turned Ascalabus in to a lizard when he mocked her for drinking an entire vessel of water. This goddess hid among the horses of King Onkios when fleeing from Poseidon, and advised Psyche to go beg Aphrodite for forgiveness. King Eleusis asked her to nurse his two sons, and she was interrupted by Metanira when turning Demophon immortal. She accidentally ate the shoulder of Pelops. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of grain and harvest, the mother of Persephone.
Demeter [accept Ceres before "Poseidon"]
3

112772-)
This man once broke down into tears after listening to the bard Demodokus. He was ordered to found a shrine in a place where the locals would not recognize an oar. Years after this man plundered the city of the Cicones, he was slain with the spine of a stingray by his illegitimate son Telegonus. While on a night raid, this man and Diomedes killed the treacherous Dolon. This man caused the suicide of Ajax by arguing successfully for the armor of Achilles. He sustained an injury while visiting his grandfather Autolycus, allowing him to be recognized years later by his nurse Eurykleia. For 10 points, name this Ithacan hero, the husband of Penelope who spent ten years trying to return home.
Odysseus [or Ulysses; or Ulixes]
7

114737-)
One deity of these natural entities pursued the nymph Arethusa. In one myth, two of these called Alpheus and Peneus were used to help Hercules complete his fifth labor with the Augean (*) stables. One of these consisting of fire was called Phlegethon. Drinking from one of these caused forgetfulness, and Charon ferried people across one of these entities. The Lethe and Styx are examples of, for 10 points, what type of geographic feature with running water?
rivers
2

119066-)
According to Plato and Pausanias, this was the only region of Greece that practiced human sacrifice, specifically at a temple of Zeus in the mountains. This region uniquely worshiped Demeter's daughter Despoina, whose mysteries were at Lycosura. This region's name derives from a son of Zeus and Callisto hidden here whenHera made Callisto a bear. A king of this region murdered his son Nyctimus and became the first (*) werewolf. In the Metamorphoses, Zeus decides to flood the world because this region's king, Lycaon, serves him human flesh. Its most famous resident made a set of pipes out of the transformed nymph Syrinx. For 10 points, name this mountainous region of the Peloponnese home to Pan, a creepily violent place usually depicted as a pastoral utopia.
Arcadia
9

121561-)
This goddess tricked the Aloadai giants into killing each other, preventing them from scaling Mount Olympus. One version of the story of Orion's death gives this goddess as the cause, after her brother tricked her into using Orion's head as a target. She and her brother worked together in response to Niobe's claim that her fourteen children made her superior to their mother, killing her children to avenge Leto. This goddess was angry when her nymph Callisto was seduced by Zeus, and directly after her birth, she assisted her mother in birthing her brother.  Another story concerning this goddess revolves around her punishing Actaeon for spying on her while bathing by turning him into a stag, after which he was killed by hounds. This goddess notably ruled the Hyperboreans and the Amazons. For 10 points, identify this sister of Apollo, the virgin Greek goddess of the hunt.
Artemis
7

131151-)
Leto earned the surname "Phytia," meaning "to grow," after granting a request for this action to happen to Leucippus, the daughter of Galatea. Poseidon made this happen to Mestra when she requested she not be caught by a slaver who saw her on the beach. Poseidon granted invulnerability and this transformation to a figure who was later pounded into the ground by the Centaurs; that person changed her name from Caenis to Caeneus after undergoing this action. FTP what transformation happened the second time Tiresias hit some copulating snakes with a stick, changing him from a priestess?
changing from woman to man or female to male; we’ll accept “changing sex” at DB; However, do NOT take “changing from man to woman”—that’s wrong
6

140712-)
This mythological figure drove Aglauros and Herse to kill themselves after they looked inside a chest this figure entrusted to their sister Pandrosus. That chest contained a son of this figure who later overthrew Cecrops and instituted the festival of this deity. This deity’s son Ericthonius was born after Hephaestus attempted to rape her. This goddess produced an olive branch to win a contest against Poseidon. She famously sprung fully formed from the head of Zeus. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of wisdom.
Athena
6

151037-)
On Crete, Karmanor served as the consort of this deity. Two different stories describe this deity turning either Abas or Ascalabus into a lizard for mocking her eager drinking. She turned the Scythian king Lyncus into a lynx as punishment for attempting to kill a son of King Celeus. This goddess, the older of the two deities celebrated at the Thesmophoria, accidentally consumed the (*) shoulder of Pelops. After Metanira interrupted a ritual she was carrying out, she opted not to provide immortality to Demophon and instead taught her own skills to Triptolemus. Eleusis was a cult center for this goddess, who supposedly caused winter by spending months grieving for her lost daughter. For 10 points, name this Greek goddess of the harvest, the mother of Persephone.
Demeter [or Ceres]
5

157963-)
According to Book 11 of the Aeneid, this group may include a member of the Volsci named Camilla; at various other times, the leader of this group is named as Myrina. During the nightmarish last days of the Trojan War, a leader of this group is killed by Achilles, who weeps over the corpse. During a great battle against Heracles and Theseus, many of their members are killed, including, according to some sources, (*) Pen·the·silea [pen-theh-zih-LAY-uh]. For his ninth labour, Heracles retrieves the belt of one of these people named Hippolyta. These people are said to cut off their right breasts to shoot arrows better. For 10 points, name this tribe of warrior women in Greek mythology.
the Amazons [or the Amazones]
4

158032-)
Abas is rewarded with one of these objects after the death of his grandfather Danaus [dah-NAY-uss]. A battle against Cyc·nus, son of Ares, is the subject of a poem titled for one of these objects of Heracles. Book 18 of the Iliad describes how a newly-made one of these objects includes an image juxtaposing a peaceful city with a warring city. The head of a Gorgon is (*) affixed to the front of one of these objects, just moments after its shiny reflection is used by Perseus in his battle against Medusa. The aegis [EE-jiss] of Athena is an example of—for 10 points—what type of defensive object often used in battle alongside a sword?
shield [or aspís; accept Shield of Heracles or Aspis Herakleous; accept aegis before “aegis” is read] &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

158068-)
Because this god and his children hate each other, he hides them all inside of his mother’s body, which causes her to become congested and moan in agony. According to the Works and Days, this god’s son is the ruler of the Golden Age. Orphic texts strangely name Aether [EE-thurr] as the father of this deity, who is the Greek analogue of the Roman god (*) Caelus [SEE-luhss]. The blood of this deity blisters into the Me·li·ae [MEH-lee-AY], or hazel nymphs, as well as into the Furies. The goddess Aphro·dite foams out of this god’s genitals after he’s castrated by the sickle of his jealous son Cronus. For 10 points, name this primordial Greek god of the sky.
Uranus [or Ouranos]
4

158082-)
After leaving this place, a protagonist holds a funeral for his nurse, Caieta. A poetic protagonist is told how to get to this place by a woman whose mythologically-decorated temple doors don’t depict the death of Icarus because they were designed by Daedalus. A “hesitant” or “lingering” plant that contradicts a Sibylline prophecy possibly signifies that a (*) hero is not quite ready to go to this place. This place is left through a gate of “false dreams” made of ivory in the katabasis of Book 6 of the Aeneid. Two doves help Aeneas find the golden bough he uses to enter this place. For 10 points, name this place where Aeneas sees the ghost of Dido.
the underworld [accept Elysium, Hell, Hades, Dis, Pluto, Orcus, or Avernus] &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

158099-)
Many of this god’s sons were worshipped in Samo·thrace as the cult of the Cabeiri. In Book 21 of the Iliad, this deity battles the river god Scamander. When this god’s semen falls onto the earth, it is absorbed by Gaia, who proceeds to become pregnant with Erich·thonius. In Hesiod’s Theo·gony, this god’s wife is listed as (*) Aglaea. This father of Periphetes [puh-RIH-fuh-teez] uses a cursed chair with invisible chains to ensnare his mother Hera; in another myth, this god exposes an affair between his wife Aphro·dite and her lover Ares. For 10 points, name this Greek god of the forge.
Hephaestus [do not accept or prompt on “Vulcan”]
4

158149-)
The face of this animal can be found on depictions of a Gnostic deity known as Yalda·baoth [YAHL-dah-BOWTH], Saklas, or the Demiurge. Ovid’s Metamorphoses attributes the colour of the mulberry fruit to the splashing blood of a youth who believes that one of these animals has killed his lover Thisbe [THIZZ-bee]. Toward the end of their lives, (*) Atalanta and Hippo·menes turn into these animals. Near the town of Cleonae, a youth tells Heracles that he will sacrifice himself to Zeus if one of these animals is not killed within thirty days; Heracles then kills that animal from Nemea as his first labour. For 10 points, name this animal that forms the lower body of the Sphinx.
lion [or Panthera leo or P. leo; accept Nemean lion] &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

158172-)
During a duel, this character grabs his opponent’s helmet and drags him along the ground, until Aphro·dite suddenly whisks his opponent away. The epithet xan·thos [ZAAN-thohss] used to describe this character is frequently taken to mean “red-haired”. This successor to Tyn·dareus fathers Mega·penthes [“MEGA”-PEN-theez] to express his great sorrow from being away from people such as his daughter (*) Hermione. While this man is away at his grandfather’s funeral, his wife is kidnapped by Paris, and “a thousand ships” are launched to rescue her. For 10 points, name this king of Sparta and husband of Helen of Troy.
Menelaus &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

