83291-)
In one work usually attributed to this philosopher, the term hyparxis is identified with existence as the first principle of a triad which includes life and intelligence.  In another work, the civic, purgative, and contemplative types of virtue are considered along with paradigmatic virtue, which corresponds to a virtue’s Platonic Form.  In addition to Commentary on Parmenides, this opponent of Iamblichus wrote a work rejecting Cronius’s theory that the titular location did not exist and interprets its structure symbolically while analyzing The Odyssey as allegorically depicting the history of the human soul.  Another work by this philosopher discusses the Aristotelian concepts of genus, species, differentia, property, and accident as an introduction to the Categories.  The author of Sententiae, The Cave of the Nymphs and the Isagoge, for 10 points, name this Neoplatonist who edited his teacher Plotinus' Enneads.
Porphyry
9

88332-)
Among those influenced by this school was one Diodorus Chronos, who applied its cosmological precents to time, while a man held to have been himself influence on it was a Samian philosopher and admiral who would actually probably have been very critical of such core concepts it espouses like motion. Aristotle would later criticise the lack of explanation for motion, causing Epicurus to fill in one with a concept that Lucretius would call clinamen or "swerve". Inspired by Melissus and his concept of all reality as unbroken and uncuttable, but breaking with him in the suggestion of a void in which only certain uncuttable parts move, for 10 points name this school whose primary proponents are Leucippus and Democritus.
atomists {SK}
9

114576-)
This work deploys an elegant analogy suggesting that, like bats which cannot process blinding sunlight with their blind eyes, so too does the truth elude us. Translators baffled by this work's phrase "the what it was to be" rendered the whole thing as the word essentia, from which we get the English word "essence." This work arbitrarily defines a human being as a two-footed animal in order to demonstrate the impossibility of believing the same thing to be and to not be, in an extended illustration of the principle of (*) non-contradiction. In his autobiography, Avicenna claimed to have read this work 40 times without understanding it before encountering al-Farabi's elucidation of its "purposes." Book XII, or lambda, of this work terms a being whose "thinking is a thinking of thinking" the "unmoved mover." For 10 points, name this work by Aristotle which gives its name to the field of philosophy concerned with the nature of being, with a title suggesting that pupils should tackle it after reading his Physics.
Metaphysics
9

150288-)
A type of “voluntarism” whose name derives from this Greek word was considered conceptually impossible by Bernard Williams. Aristotle added the prefix en- to this word to refer to a more stable version of this concept applied to groups instead of individuals. The Septuagint renders the Hebrew word kavod (“kah-VOHD”), meaning “glory,” as this Greek word. It’s not techne (“TEK-nee”), but the distinction between episteme (“ep-ih-STEE-mee”) and this term is important to Plato’s epistemology. In On Nature, Parmenides distinguished between two “ways,” one of which is named after the word (*) aletheia (“ah-leth-AY-uh”) and the other of which is named after this word. A type of logic which treats belief as a modal operator has a name consisting of this word plus the letters “S-T-I-C.” For 10 points, name this four-letter Greek word for “opinion” or “belief,” from which English words beginning with the prefixes “ortho” and “hetero” derive.
doxa [accept doxastic; accept dokein] &lt;WN, Philosophy&gt;
8

154030-)
This philosopher recounted a parable by Zeno of Citium which compared the way the soul assents to a clear perception, or katalepsis, to a fist. Macrobius wrote a Neoplatonic commentary on a passage by this philosopher in which Scipio is presented with visions of life after death and the nine celestial spheres. This philosopher discussed conflicts between honor and expediency in a Stoic-influenced essay for his son, (*) De Officiis (day OFF-ih-KEE-eess), and wrote a dialogue on Roman history and government called De Re Publica. Petrarch's rediscovery of this man's letters in the 14th century reignited interest in classical culture. For 10 points, name this Roman statesman and orator whose denunciations of Marc Anthony in the Philippics led to his assassination.
Marcus Tullius Cicero &lt;Kothari, RMP - Philosophy&gt;
5

158013-)
This philosophical tradition has recently become popular in the U.S. military due to a book by James Stockdale. A philosopher of this school devised a system of propositional logic that was more popular than Aristotle’s until the early Middle Ages. A philosopher from this school emphasized the careful use of one’s prohairesis, which is the only thing truly within our power. A Handbook and (*) Discourses in this tradition were written by the former slave Epictetus. Nero’s tutor Seneca espoused this school, which is exemplified by the Meditations of Marcus Aurelius. For 10 points, name this philosophical school that emphasized self-control and detachment from worldly things.
Stoicism &lt;JW&gt;
4

158115-)
Aristotle argued that this concept’s opposite always arises from pleonexia. In the Nicomachean Ethics, Aristotle analyses one species of this concept in terms of geometric proportions, while he calls the other “rectificatory.” In an earlier text, Thrasymachus claims that this concept is really only “the advantage of the (*) stronger.” A definition of this concept is supported by Glaucon’s story of the Ring of Gyges. This concept is finally defined as “minding one’s own business” after definitions like “doing good to friends and harm to enemies” are rejected in Book IV of Plato’s Republic. For 10 points, name this concept that Aristotle related to equality and fairness.
justice [or dikaiosune; do not accept or prompt on similar terms like “fairness”] &lt;JW&gt;
4

158189-)
A text named for these things proposes a society of exactly 5,040 male citizens governed by a Nocturnal Council. In an imagined speech, these things point out that Socrates has almost never left Athens, that he is like a child and a servant to these things, and that he can’t benefit his children by escaping to Thessaly. Socrates does not appear in a late, 12-book dialogue titled for these things, which was Plato’s (*) longest work. Socrates imagines a speech given by these things in response to Crito’s claim that it is just to violate them. For 10 points, name these rules that govern polities like Plato’s Republic.
laws [or nomoi; or nomos] &lt;JR&gt;
4

161628-)
2. This work claims that "loaves of bread" that split open "in the oven" shows how "Nature's inadvertence has its own charm, its own attractiveness." This text states that after the deaths of Alexander the Great and his "mule driver", their souls either became part of the "life-force" of the world, or were turned into "atoms" of an "Epicurean universe." This work, whose Greek title Ta eis heauton ("tah ays HEY-ow-tohn") means "things to one-self," begins by thanking the author's teacher (*) Rusticus, who introduced him to Epictetus's ("eh-PIC-teh-tus") philosophy. It was written in koine ("KOY-nay") Greek from 161 to 180 AD while its author was campaigning in places such as Carnuntum while fighting against the Quadi ("KWAH-dee") barbarians. For 10 points, name this set of Stoic writings by Marcus Aurelius.
Meditations [accept Ta eis heauton before "Ta"]  &lt;Jose, RMP - Philosophy&gt;
5

161733-)
2. Plutarch claims that a philosopher who studied these objects blinded himself to better refine his faculties in studying them; that philosopher believed that these things coalesce into layers called eidola ("eye-DOH-lah"). A six-book Latin poem in dactylic hexameter argues that these entities created anima, animus, and other concepts through a process of clinamen ("CLIH-nah-men") or "swerve." Tradition holds that the first philosophy of these objects is presented in (*) Leucippus' book Big World-System. These objects occupy a cosmic void and create free will in Lucretius's poem De Rerum Natura. The materialist philosopher Democritus believed that these objects made up the universe. The Greek word for "indivisible" provides the name of, for 10 points, what units that make up matter?
atoms  &lt;Jose, RMP - Philosophy&gt;
5

162323-)
Roslyn Weiss has argued that this work’s protagonist uses the phrase “especially an orator” to distance himself from the arguments presented in its second half. At the end of this work, the protagonist says that he hears “just as the Corybantes seem to hear their flutes,” since “the sounds of these words resonate within [him] and make [him] unable to hear the others.” In this work, a woman “clad in white” evokes Book IX of the Iliad by telling the protagonist (*) “on the third day you will arrive to fertile Phthia.” The protagonist of this work argues that leaving the city without its permission would constitute breaching a contract. In this work’s second half, the protagonist engages in a hypothetical conversation with the laws of Athens. For 10 points, name this Platonic dialogue in which Socrates refuses the title figure’s offer to assist his escape from prison.
Crito [accept Criton] <MK>
8

