66782-)
This work shares its name with a Scottish school of philosophy whose members included Thomas Reid and Adam Ferguson. An "Epistle to the Quakers" was appended to later editions of this work. It says that the ancient Jews angered God by wanting a king, but He let them have one. This work later argues that monarchy could come from election, usurpation, or random selection, and that hereditary selection is illegitimate in any case. Beginning with a section that finds monarchical and aristocratic tyranny in the English constitution, this work lambastes the absurdity of an island ruling a continent. For 10 points, name this revolutionary pamphlet by Thomas Paine.
Common Sense
6

67144-)
A proposed refutation of this "from a Logical Point of View" by Jack Copeland involves people playing cricket at a gym.  One argument against this asserts that Maxwell's Theory of Electromagnetic Waves cannot be disproved by waving a magnet in front a light bulb and generating no light.  Besides that illumination argument against it by the Churchlands, one argument against it asserts that the entire system accomplishes what this formulation claims to refute.  Other proposed refutations of it include the Other Minds, Many Mansions and Robot Replies.  The title entity is capable of passing the Turing Test, and its formulator argued against the notion of Strong AI.  For 10 points, identify this thought experiment asserting that a man given rules to manipulate characters is not truly understanding the namesake language, which was proposed by John Searle.
Chinese Room
8

73042-)
This work responds to what it terms the ‘”laziness” of a certain philosopher’s “principle of least action” by
claiming that the statement “Quality q is at x; y; z; t” can never be translated into the world of sense data. This work
references Frege’s example of “Morning Star” and “Evening Star” and Bertrand Russell’s discussion of “Scott” and
“The Author of Waverly”. It also discusses Carnap’s Aufbau in the later section “The Verification Theory and
Reductionism”. This paper not only attacks reductionism, but also uses the phrase “No bachelor is married” to
attacking the logical positivists’ distinction between analytic truths and synthetic truths, the other title concept. For
10 points, name this essay by Willard Van Orman Quine.
"Two Dogmas of Empiricism"
7

73308-)
This work criticized an institution as being "ranked in the scriptures as one of the sins about the Jews." Furthermore, it criticizes the supporters of constitutional monarchy, arguing that in a certain country "the crown hath engrossed the commons." However, it also simplified the views of John Locke by stating "Society is produced by our wants, and government by our wickedness," while also referring to the "natural principles" the author believed needed defending. Selling over 100,000 copies in its first year it declared that a certain conflict was "in great measure the cause of mankind" and advocated a declaration of independence. For 10 points, name this 1776 radical pamphlet calling for Americans to declare independence by Thomas Paine.
Common Sense
7

75570-)
This philosopher discussed the philosophy of Henri Bergson in The Winds of Doctrine, and held that to judge something as beautiful was to differentiate between fundamental ideals and transitory ones in The Sense of Beauty.  His discussed essence, matter, truth and spirit in The Realms of Being, and he wrote a five-volume work on the “phases of human progress” which notes that “those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.” For 10 points, name this Spanish-American naturalist philosopher who wrote The Life of Reason and Skepticism and Animal Faith.
George Santayana [or Jorge Agustin Nicolas Ruiz de Santayana y Borras]
6

76143-)
It argues for commodification as "mean and squalid" in section five, "Discipline," and identifies matter, not as a substance, but as a phenomenon. Other sections of this 8 part work include "Discipline," where its author notes that "sensible objects conform to premonitions of reason," and "Prospects," the latter of which quotes a poem by George Herbert that begins "Man is all symmetry." Its "Introduction" notes that this work will concern itself with the "NOT ME" and asserts that the universe is composed of the Soul and the title entity. Perhaps most famous for its metaphor of a "transparent eyeball" that sees nothing but sees all, it was partially completed in the same room as Mosses for an Old Manse. Published in 1836, a year before its author would make a name for himself with his "The American Scholar," for 10 points, identify this first major essay by Ralph Waldo Emerson.
"Nature"
8

83887-)
This thinker was unflatteringly labeled "the American Heidegger" in a Steve Fuller work.
Thomas Kuhn
6

103870-)
The journal The Critical Rationalist is devoted to the followers of this man, who worked withpsychologist Donald Campbell to develop the idea of a body of knowledge existing outside of humanthinkers in his theory of knowledge as evolution. That theory was elaborated in such works as AWorld of Propensities and Objective Knowledge. In another work, he accused Marxists of using ad-hochypotheses to patch up their theory and denounced large-scale social planning as a confusion of (*)trends with laws. Another of his political works seeks the origin of "the high tide of prophecy" in "the spellof Plato." He is likely most known for arguing against "verificationism" and in favor of "falsifiability" asthe criterion for good science. For 10 points, identify this author of The Open Society and Its Enemies andThe Logic of Scientific Discovery.
Karl Raimund Popper
8

115307-)
One section of this work utilizes the example of a candle whose wax grows alternately hot and cold to illustrate a point about changing natures, while this text also asserts that the wax of that candle was not the same thing as its whiteness or the sweetness of honey. In the fourth part of this work, "On Truth and Falsity", the author declares that he is an "intermediate between God and nothingness." In the previous section, he attempts to establish the existence of God by arguing that the idea of God is neither adventitious nor invented, but must be innate. The second section of this work asserts that the nature of the mind is more easy to know than that of the body, presaging this work's argument. The final part concerns the mind-body problem, building off the author's earlier conclusion that he truly does exist. For 10 points, identify this work by Rene Descartes that encourages systematic doubt of everything.  
Meditations on First Philosophy or [Meditationes de Prima Philosophia]
7

126538-)
Brian Loar's critique of this argument opens by citing the Frenchman Pierre in Saul Kripke's "A Puzzle About Belief." In The Conscious Mind, David Chalmers replies directly to this argument by proposing a two-by-two matrix whose diagonal and top row encode primary and secondary intensions. This argument was modi3ed by Tyler Burge, whose paper "Other Bodies" discusses a woman named Jane with arthritis in her thigh. The classic statement of this argument appears alongside a discussion of the di5ference between elms and beeches and states two Fregean (FRAY-gee-an) principles it 3nds fallacious. That statement of this argument takes place in the year 1750, before modern chemistry, and concludes that meaning "just ain't in the head" because "water" means both H2O and XYZ. For 10 points, name this thought experiment 3rst proposed by Hilary Putnam which involves a planet super3cially identical to our own.
Twin Earth thought experiment [or semantic externalism argument]
8

146696-)
Ideas from this movement were used to attack the logical positivists by William Quine, while its namesake "maxim" describes how one should approach philosophy. One paper from this school distinguishes between "tender" and "tough" types of people, and criticizes an argument over whether a (*) squirrel is running around a tree; that paper is "A New Name for Some Old Ways of Thinking." The founder of this philosophy wrote the essay "How to Make Our Ideas Clear." Along with Charles Sanders Peirce ["purse"], John Dewey and William James were members of this school. For 10 points, name this school of philosophy arguing for a focus on problems with practical consequences.
pragmatism (accept word forms)
3

148871-)
This philosopher wrote a series of six essays in The Monist arguing that properties of the universe had evolved in Darwinian fashion, as a result of the “tendency of things to acquire determinate properties” combined with “absolute chance.” Aside from supporting that theory, which he termed “tychism,” this thinker argued that icons, indices, and symbols were three examples of “hypostatic abstraction” through which “representations” could produce “interpretants.” This philosopher developed the groupings of “Firstness,” “Secondness,” and “Thirdness” in his paper “On a New List of Categories,” and argued that a blanket refusal to adapt one’s opinions to new information constituted the “method of tenacity.” For 10 points, name this author of “The Fixation of Belief” and “How to Make Our Ideas Clear,” an American Pragmatist.
Charles Sanders Peirce (“purse”) &lt;Philosophy&gt;
7

160135-)
Adolph Reed Jr. claimed that this thinker turned to an ideology close to Fabian socialism. This thinker pondered the question "How does it feel to be a problem?" in one work, and called for the creation of "race organizations" in his speech "The Conservation of Races." In one book, this thinker wrote that "the problem of the twentieth century is the problem of the color-line." That book's chapter "Of Our Spiritual Strivings" describes the feeling of (*) "two-ness" within African-American subjects, resulting from seeing themselves through white eyes, as "double consciousness." This man argued that a "talented tenth" would lift up African-Americans and rejected Booker T. Washington's Atlanta compromise. For 10 points, name this author of The Souls of Black Folk.
W. E. B. Du Bois [or William Edward Burghardt Du Bois] <Kothari>
5

