63211-)
This work's welfth chapter discusses the use of fire and other environmental factors. The 1910 translation of this book discusses the "nine situations," the use of spies, the laying of plans, and marching and maneuvering. This book was written during the Spring and Autumn Period and has been applied by Douglas MacArthur and Mao Zedong. For 10 points, name this Chinese text written by Sun Tzu (soo) as a manual for the leaders of armies.
The Art of War [or Sunzi Bingfa]
3

123531-)
A text from this school of thought contains the story of a man who picks up a skull on the roadside, uses it as a pillow, and converses about death with it in his sleep. In another story from this school of thought, a man whose wife just died is found happily drumming on a bowl. The "Inner Chapters" are found in a text from this school of thought; another text from this tradition claims that the only important motion is "returning" and notes that a pot is useful because of its emptiness. This school of thought uses the metaphor of an uncarved wooden block to represent human nature. The concept of "action through inaction," or "wu wei" ("woo way"), is central to, for 10 points, what Chinese school of thought based on the teachings of Zhuangzhi and Laozi (JWANG-zuh and "LOUD"-zuh), the latter of whom wrote the a book whose title translates as "The Book of the Way of Virtue"?
Taoism [or Daoism; accept forms of the words Tao or Dao]
7

150311-)
This concept is illustrated by a story in which a man drives a carriage into a ditch because he shivers so much from the reed coat he is wearing. A book named after this concept argues that the “beginning” of this concept is to “not presume to injure” our bodies, “to every hair and bit of skin.” That book is made up of eighteen short chapters, some of which are titled for this concept “in the common people” and “in the princes of states.” This concept was extended to apply to the “five (*) bonds,” a set of relationships including “friend to friend” and “husband to wife.” Books on this concept include a collection of twenty-four “exemplars” of this concept, as well as a “classic” of this concept framed as a dialogue between Zengzi (“tsung-tsuh”) and his teacher. The common charge during the Tang Dynasty that Buddhist beliefs undermined this concept was countered with stories like Mulian (“moo-lee-en”) Rescues His Mother. For 10 points, name this Confucian virtue of respect for one’s parents.
filial piety [or xiao] &lt;WN, Philosophy&gt;
8

