66949-)
One use of it has been to suggest that a large axion decay constant, naively ruled out due to its prediction of an overabundance of dark matter, is allowed due to a highly tuned initial angle. Hoyle's argument for the existence of a particular resonance of carbon-12 is often considered a use of this principle. In cosmology, it is the subject of a book by Barrow and Tipler. Its name was coined by Brandon Carter, and one prominent use is Stephen Weinberg's 1987 prediction of a small cosmological constant on the basis of galaxy formation. Its weak form is a tautological statement that the universe must be compatible with our knowledge that carbon-based life exists. For 10 points, what is this controversial principle which in one strong form relies on an ensemble of universes in which we live in a rare habitable region?
the anthropic principle
8

72172-)
Due in part to the influence of Jean-Jacques Rousseau, this word completes the sentence in the English translation of The Declaration of the Rights of Man: "The law is the expression of the general [this]." In Michel Foucault's The His- tory of Sexuality, the first chapter is titled "The [this] to knowledge", while a lecture by William James was titled "The [this] to Believe", and this word was paired with Time in the title of Henri Bergson's doctoral thesis. In the title of the best-known work by Arthur Schopenhauer, this term is, depending on the translation, paired with either Idea or Rep- resentation. This word often appears after the word "free", and with a different definition it refers to a document that can have its validity determined by a probate. Give this four-letter word associated with freedom of choice.
will
3

122403-)
In 20th century philosophy, the question of what does or doesn't count as this activity was the"problem of demarcation." A 1962 book defined the "normal" type of this activity as an accumulation of results from "problem-solving," and used Wittgenstein's image of the "duckrabbit" to show how different types of it might perceive differently. This activity is disrupted during times of "paradigm shift" according to philosopher (*) Thomas Kuhn, and its claims must be falsifiable according to Karl Popper's work on this type of discovery. In 1620, a new way of doing this was proposed in Novum Organum. For 10 points, name this method of academic inquiry championed by Francis Bacon, whose "revolutions" might replace ideas such as Newtonian physics with special relativity.
science [or scientific method; or scientific research; or scientific revolutions]
5

122960-)
Herman Philipse wrote a manifesto defending this position. A philosopher most famous for defending this position held a salon which Jean-Jacques Rousseau called his "coterie," and may be the basis for the character of Wolmar in Rousseau's Julie. The fact that he held this position is practically all that we know about the ancient Greek philosopher Diagoras. This position was famously laid out in the book The System of (*) Nature, by the Baron d'Holbach. Johann Gottlieb Fichte was forced to resign from Jena after being accused of holding this position. The so-called "Four Horsemen" who are famous for defending this position include Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens. For 10 points, name this philosophical position, which holds that deities do not exist.
atheism [prompt on "anti-religion" or similar answers; prompt on "materialism"]
7

124763-)
Kit Fine holds that this field can be explained by non-causal dependencies known as "grounds". "Revisionary" and "descriptive" approaches to this field are contrasted in P. F. Strawson's book Individuals. This field titles a book which posits that a statue is different from a lump of bronze by virtue of its cause, illustrating its author's theory of hylomorphism. The thesis that this field "affords us knowledge of a transcendent reality" is rejected as unverifiable in the first chapter of Language, Truth, and Logic. The logical positivists sought to "eliminate" this field which was called "first philosophy" in a namesake book describing the "unmoved mover" written by Aristotle. For 10 points, name this branch of philosophy concerned with the fundamental nature of the world.
metaphysics
7

133411-)
This concept is exemplified in a figure who is attracted to the "durability of a stone" and denies the racism of the world and its social institutions. One thinker used the figures of the Narcissist, the Woman in Love, and the Mystic to illustrate this concept. A different thinker demonstrated this concept by describing a woman on a first date who misconstrues compliments about her physical appearance as compliments about her consciousness. This concept can refer to those who refuse to stop being children and is used to describe women who try to attain happiness by (*) subjecting themselves to the Other. This concept is illustrated with the example of a waiter who tries to conform to his idea of what a waiter should be. This concept may be surpassed if one's facticity and transcendence are in harmony and is discussed at length in Being and Nothingness. For 10 points, name this concept central to the work of Jean-Paul Sartre, a condition in which one does not live authentically.
bad faith [prompt on inauthenticity or deception or similar]
8

148963-)
It’s not a color, but a particular use of this word was popularized in a book about “unpacking the invisible knapsack” by Wellesley professor Peggy McIntosh. Journalists have a doctrine of this type in the UK but do not in the US, thanks to the ruling of Branzburg v. Hayes. This is the second word in the name of a power affirmed by United States v. Nixon that allowed the denial of subpoenas, which is possessed by the (*) executive branch. A legal doctrine denoted by this word implies permits a party to decline to give evidence, as in the attorney-client relationship. For 10 points, identify this term used to describe both a legal immunity or a special social status, which some people argue may be conveyed by whiteness.
privilege [accept white privilege] &lt;WA, PhilO&gt;
6

149076-)
Al-Ghazali conceived of these things as only being able to gain attributes through ‘arad [UH-rahd] or “accidents” of God’s intent. A different notion of these things posits that they exist along with kenon and was created by the “laughing philosopher.” Free will exists due to the clinamen [KLIH-nah-men] or “swerve” of these things according to On the Nature of Things by (*) Lucretius. They are contrasted with “corpuscules” because the latter form part of an infinite reality and thus cannot be split. According to Epicurus, all existence consisted of the void and these. This word’s use in the modern scientific sense was promoted by John Dalton. For 10 points, Democritus thought that the universe was made of what indivisible units, which in real life are divisible into nucleons and electrons?
atoms [do not accept or prompt on “substances” or “monads”] &lt;WA, PhilO&gt;
6

153118-)
An essay by Ian Hacking claims that J.G. Hamann was the first philosopher to make this phenomenon “go public.” A 2016 book splits historical theories of this phenomenon into the schools “HHH” and “HLC.” One thinker described a child recognizing a sheep by its bleat to suggest that this phenomenon develops from hearing more than from sight. That man claimed that the “inward emergence” of this phenomenon resulted from “human awareness,” or Besonnenheit [buh-ZOH-nun-“height”]. Johann Peter Süssmilch’s claim that this phenomenon was God-given was refuted in an essay by Johann Gottfried Herder, whose theories on it were discussed in a 2016 book by Charles Taylor. Another thinker bemoaned that the rationalizing tendencies of ancient Greece caused this phenomenon to be used to (*) convince rather than to move, in a work that opens by contrasting “gesture” and “voice.” That man claimed that this phenomenon began with a more passionate and musical Southern variety, before migrating north. Derrida’s Of Grammatology attacks Rousseau’s Essay on the Origin of—for 10 points—what cultural phenomenon?
languages [accept origin of languages; accept The Language Animal; anti-prompt on “speech”; do not accept or prompt on “writing,” since every thinker here until Derrida is specifically claiming that language is not writing]
9

155373-)
In his Twenty Verses, the Buddhist philosopher Vasubandhu uses a crude example of one of these events to argue against the idea that apparent objects do not lead to causal results. The best-known book by Norman Malcolm uses Wittgenstein’s “private language” argument to claim that these events can never be verified as experiences. Aristotle claimed that these events arise from the residual movement of organs, while another philosopher used a story involving one of these events to illustrate the “Transformation of Things.” The example of one of these events providing the experience of sitting in front of a fire is used to argue that we can’t trust our senses at the beginning of Descartes’s Meditations. In one story, Zhuangzi (“JWONG-dzuh”) isn’t sure whether he or a butterfly originated one of these events. For 10 points, name these mental events whose “interpretation” titles a book by Sigmund Freud.
dreams [accept word forms and more specific examples, such as waking dreams and lucid dreams; accept wet dreams, because that’s what the Vasubandhu anecdote is about]
7

160975-)
In Person and Object, Roderick Chisholm claims that the parts of one of these object exist by virtue of other things, while one of these things exists by virtue of itself. In How to do things with Words, J.L. Austin uses drunkenly naming one of these things Mrs. Stalin as an example of a failed speech-act. Otto Neurath described the sum of human knowledge as one of these things that must be constantly repaired while in use. Thomas Hobbes proposed a variant of a puzzle involving one of these objects in which a second one of these objects is secretly built from parts of an original. Plutarch describes an Athenian custom of replacing the boards of one of these things as they decayed, leading to a debate over its identity once all the planks were replaced. For 10 points, name these things, of which one belonging to Theseus was the subject of an ancient paradox regarding identity.
ships [accept boats, Ship of Theseus, Neurath's Boat, Neurath's Raft]  &lt;RMP Philosophy/Thought - Myers&gt;
7

