98527-)
This man argued that, just as the Hebrews used treasures plundered from Egypt to build the wilderness tabernacle, Christiansmust use secular philosophical writings to answer theological questions, in his letter to Gregory Thaumaturgus whoresponded with an "address of gratitude" to this person. He provided a paragraph-by-paragraph refutation of a work calledthe Alethes Logos, or The True Word, and that refutation was copied into the Philocalia named for this man, compiled byBasil the Great and Gregory Nazianzen. That piece is his tract against Celsus. Gregory of Nyssa was inspired by this man'steaching of apokatastasis,which, along with his doctrine on the pre-existence of souls, led him to be declared anathema at theFiftfth Ecumenical Council of Constantinople. He also compiled six versions of the Old Testament side-by-side in the Hexapla.For 10 points, name this theologian who allegedly castrated himself, and was a Church Father from Alexandria.
Origen of Alexandria [or Origen Adamantius; do not accept or prompt on Adamantius]
8

127059-)
This saint's discovery of a hill overgrown with basil prompted the Greek tradition of distributing sprigs of that plant. The Jew Judas Cyriacus was himself sainted for aiding this saint. According to legend, this saint instantly calmed a storm by throwing a nail into the sea. A pageant held on the final day of the Filipino festival Flores de Mayo honors this saint's most important miracle, in which she either raised a dead man or healed a sick woman on her third attempt. She is said to have caused an overpopulation of cats at a Cypriot monastery by having them imported to battle an infestation of snakes. She is the namesake of a chapel in the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, which was built on the site where she discovered the True Cross. For 10 points, name this saint who was almost 80 years old when she began a relic-hunting trip to Jerusalem at the behest of her son, the Roman emperor Constantine.
St. Helena of Constantinople
8

138441-)
A conservative offshoot of this denomination founded in 2009 is headquartered in Ambridge, Pennsylvania. In 2008, members of this denomination issued the Jerusalem declaration following a major seven-day convention in Jerusalem, which was followed up with a similar conference in Nairobi in 2013. This denomination has held the Lambeth Conferences every ten years since 1867. The Global South consists of 25 of this denomination's 38 (*) provinces. Over 40 million members of this denomination - a majority - live in Africa, and provide the bulk of opposition within it to same-sex marriage. A head of this denomination drew massive criticism for attempting to gain acceptance for women as bishops and basically accepting Sharia law in his country; that man, Rowan Williams, has since been replaced by Justin Phelby. For 10 points, name this church whose head is the Archbishop of Canterbury.
Anglican Church [or Church of England]
9

