60402-)
In the late Middle Ages, this country was home to the "cutters," a proto-Protestant group, and the Judaizers, who preached that Christians should follow Old Testament codes. Recently, this country outlawed all evangelizing and publishing by the Jehovah's Witnesses. The issue of whether two or three fingers should be folded while making the sign of the cross led to thousands of deaths in this country during the Raskol era, when persecution of the Old Believers took place. Its later dissenting groups included the pacifistic "spirit-wrestlers" who fled to Canada. Patriarch Nikon was one of the most influential religious leaders in this country. For 10 points, the Dukhobors come from what country, which has historically claimed to be the protector of all the world's Orthodox Christians?
Russia
7

62127-)
According the Farrer Hypothesis, this book was written last out of a certain group of three "synoptic" books. Its use of medical language and dedication to Theophilus is evidence that its author also wrote (*) Acts of the Apostles. The Beatitudes are stated in the beginning of its Sermon on the Plains, and it is the only Gospel that contains the parables of the Prodigal Son and the Good Samaritan. Coming after Mark, this is, for 10 points, what third and longest of the canonical Gospels?
The Gospel of Luke [or the Gospel According to Luke]
3

68164-)
The bull In Eminenti compared the doctrines of this group with those of Baianism. Francois Pinthereau and Nicolas Caussin wrote prominent refutations of their ideas. This sect drew comparisons to Calvinism due to its adherence to the concept of efficacious grace, which Clement XI condemned in the bull Unigenitis. Its adherents argued that rare confession was necessary for morality. Two members of this sect, Pierre Nicole and Antoine Arnauld, wrote the Port-Royal Logic. This sect's namesake and founder wrote the work Augustinus. One adherent of this heresy condemned the lax morality of the Jesuits in his Provincial Letters, a conflict known as the Formulary Controversy. For 10 points, name this Catholic heresy whose adherents included Blaise Pascal.
Jansenism [accept word forms]
7

68317-)
According to tradition, this city was home to the "Seven Sleepers," Christian martyrs who slept for 309 years after being sealed in a cave by the Romans. In Chapter 5 of the book named for this city, St. Paul condemns fornication and tells his followers to "walk in love, as Christ has also loved us". That epistle also commands slaves to obey their masters and contains the metaphor of the "Armor of God," while its general theme is that the church is the body of Christ. One church council in this city anathemized Patriarch Flavianus and defended Eutyches, for which it was decried as the "Robber Synod." The first council in this city rejected the idea that Christ has two distinct natures. For 10 points, name this Asia Minor city in which Nestorianism was condemned.
Ephesus
9

68643-)
A response to this document established the "principle of subsidiary function" in trying to find a "middle way" and this document's author was greatly influenced by the corporatist Fribourg Union and the teachings of Wilhelm von Ketteler. The 22nd section of this work notes that "a most strict account must be given to the Supreme Judge for all we possess," and 59th section argues that mutual associations among Catholics are beneficial to the state. It mentions a "dictate of natural justice more imperious and ancient" than bargains between men and cites Thomas Aquinas' On the Governance of Rulers to support notions of distributive justice. This religious document, issued just before the encyclical Inter innumeras, argues that socialists, who would "set aside the parent... act against natural justice and destroy the structure of the home," but acknowledges that employers are obligated to pay a fair wage. Issued by a man known as the Workers' Pope, for ten points, identify this encyclical concerned with the "rightful duties of capital and labor," issued by Leo XIII.
Rerum Novarum or New Things
9

69398-)
The "Great Disappointment" for this church occurred on October 22, 1844, when, as their founding prophet had predicted, Christ failed to make his expected appearance in a fiery conflagration over Ithaca, New York. This faith's "Sabbatarian" movement was led by Thomas Preble, who argued that followers must not work or engage in "worldly interests" on the Sabbath, which they designated as beginning Friday at sundown. FTP, name this church based on William Miller's prophecies and the writings of Ellen White, which considers Saturday the Sabbath day.
Seventh-Day Adventist Church
6

70678-)
This man is credited with convincing Beryllus of Bostra to renounce adoptionism, and this man's father, Leonides, is celebrated as a martyr. After this man's death, his beliefs were spread by the monks of Nitria. This man was ordained a priest by Theoctistus of Caesarea, which sparked this man's spat with Patriarch Demetrius of Alexandria. This man is associated with the doctrine of Apocatastasis, and in his theology he subordinated the Logos, or Christ, to the First Principle of God the Father and taught the transmigration of souls, for which he was anathamized by the later church. For ten points, name this third century AD theologian from Egypt, who combined Neo-Platonism with Christianity.
Origen
9

73264-)
This man wrote a piece that called for a new interpretation of the Thirty-Nine Articles; that piece brought an end to a series of works that he had started with works that claimed apostolic descent for the clergy of the Church that he would later leave. Tracts for the Times would form the basis of a movement that included Edward Pusey and John Keble, named for an English university. He also wrote a work in response to an article by Charles Kingsley that claimed that he and the Church that he had converted to did not regard truth as a virtue. In that work, he discusses the religious opinions he held throughout his life, including his conversion from Anglicanism to Catholicism. Due to be officially beatified in September, for 10 points, identify this English Cardinal, the founder of the Oxford Movement and the author of Apologia Pro Vita Sua.
The Venerable John Henry Newman
7

75695-)
Retrospection and Introspection, No and Yes, and Unity of Good are three of the Prose Works authored by the founder of this religion. This religion fosters a discussion of 26 set topics twice each on every Sunday during the Lesson-Sermon, and its services are conducted by Readers. The literature of this religion is distributed in its namesake “Reading Rooms,” which publisher Virginia Harris helped popularize. Augusta Stetson was excommunicated by its Mother Church, which is in Boston. For 10 points, name this Christian denomination whose namesake discipline is laid out along with “Health with Key to the Scriptures,” founded by Mary Baker Eddy.
Christian Science
6

76620-)
Its speaker instructs you to “rejoice, and be exceeding glad,” and he has “not come to
destroy, but to fulfill.” It is claimed that “a good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit,” and asks “is
not the life more than food, and the body than clothing?” According to it, if “your eye be evil,
your whole body shall be full of darkness,” and you should “let your light so shine before men,
that they may see your good works.” The speaker instructs you to “judge not, that you not be
judged,” and the beatitudes are contained within it, as well as the Golden Rule and the Lord’s
Prayer. Found in Chapters 5-7 of Matthew, FTP, identify this speech given by Jesus Christ on a
mountain.
Sermon on the Mount (prompt on the Book of Matthew)
3

83652-)
The mother-in-law of this resident of Capharnaum was healed of a fever by Jesus after the Sermon on the Mount, and this man argued that converts to Christianity must follow Judaic law at the Council of the Apostles. His actions also include raising Tabitha from the dead, condemning Ananias and Sapphira to death, and declaring that Jesus was "the Christ, the Son of the Living God". Along with James and John, this apostle was present at the Transfiguration and was crucified upside down during Nero's reign. With a name meaning "rock", name this apostle of Jesus best known for denying him three times after the Crucifixion.
Simon Peter or Cephas (prompt on "Simon")
7

83818-)
Legendarily this first gained prominence when St. Dominic was told to spread it around Toulouse to combat the Albigensian heresy, a fact assumed by Supremi Apostolatus Officio and later encyclicals about it by Pope Leo XIII. It was first officially recognized by the Catholic Church in 1520 by Leo X, and in 2002, John Paul II added a fourth set of mysteries to this prayer, which had consisted of three sets of five each connected by the "Gloria Patri" and the "Pater Noster." For 10 points, name this Catholic prayer consisting of fifteen decades of Hail Marys counted on a chaplet, also known for its namesake beads.
the rosary
6

85360-)
He attacked Donatism in On Baptism, and he argued for predestination in The Predestination of the Blessed. He dismissed the claims that Rome was being sacked because the inhabitants stopped worshipping pagan gods and compared Rome unfavorably to Jerusalem, and he discussed his mother Monica and his life as a Manicheist in a work where he pledged to give up all sexuality before being baptized. For 10 points, name this bishop of Hippo and Doctor of the Church who wrote The City of God and Confessions.
Saint Augustine of Hippo
3

86643-)
This book features the killing of the prophet Balaam and a war with the Midianites that results in their destruction. This book also includes a section in which a bronze snake known as Nehushtan is constructed. In this book, the Levites are given command of the Tabernacle, and Miriam is punished with leprosy after speaking out against Moses. For 10 points, name this fourth book of the Old Testament that opens with a census to discover how many men are able to serve in the military.
Numbers
5

88444-)
King Mvemba a Nzinga of the Kingdom of Kongo credited his 1509 victory over his rebellious brother Mpanzu a Kitima to the intercession of this figure, and in gratitude declared a national holiday on July 25. Together with his brother, he is described as being a "son of thunder" by Mark 3:17, and his question about the signs of the end times prompts Jesus' discussion of eschatology in Mark 13. According to tradition, he ordained as first bishop of Braga a man whose namesake spring is believed to cure sterility, St. Peter of Rates, while another tradition states that he appeared at the Battle of Clavijo on horseback, leading to the nickname Matamoros, Slayer of Moors. For ten points, name this patron saint of Spain, an apostle whose symbol is the scallop shell, and whose shrine is at Compostela.
St. James the Greater (accept James the Moor-Slayer before it is mentioned; prompt on James or on Santiago)
7

88524-)
It supplanted an earlier effort by Matthew Parker, and drew heavily on previous work by John Rogers and Theodore Beza. Its origin lay in one of the points of the Millenary petition, which itself resulted in the Hampton Court conference, where its creation was authorized. William Wiston attempted a revision of this work in the context of reviving Arianism, while Samuel Wilberforce attempted a modernization and Rastafarians maintain that it is a corruption. Prefacing this work are the Epistle Dedicatory and The Translators to the Reader, and by royal order, there were to be "no marginal notes at all...but only for the explanation of the Hebrew or Greek words." FTP, name this popular translation of the Bible named for an English monarch.
The King James Version or The Authorized Version
7

88554-)
A later version of this document was approved at the same time as a Tome and two notable letters, and the discussion which led to its approval included a debate over the word "homousios." The question of whether a word was written with one or two instances of the letter "nu" is important to its interpretation, and it was accepted by Damasus I after being promulgated at a meeting which established trinitarianism. The "filioque" clause of this document has been rejected by the Eastern churches, and it ends by stating that "we look for the resurrection of the dead and the life of the world to come." For ten points, identify this profession of faith, deceptively not issued by a namesake 325 C.E. council.
The Nicene Creed (or Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed)
7

88779-)
In a discourse against this concept, John Tillotson claimed that a man could do "nothing more unworthily towards a friend." In the Eastern Orthodox tradition, the notion of metousiosis forms the basis for this concept and Ignatius of Antioch defended it in 106 CE in his Epistle to the Smyrnaean. Exegetical support for it can be found in First Corinthians 11:27, Matthew 26:26-28, and especially John 6:26. Its justification rests on the distinction between accidents and substance and an analogous Anglican doctrine is known as Real Presence. FTP, identify this dogma confirmed by the Fourth Lateran Council that states that the wine and wafer of the Eucharist literally become the blood and body of Christ.
transubstantiation
7

92208-)
This office is symbolized by gold and silver keys. The time during which this office is vacant is termed sede vacante (SEE-day vah-KAHN-tay). The holder of this office is elected in a conclave of the College of Cardinals and wears the Ring of the Fisherman, which depicts St. Peter, the first holder of this office. For 10 points, identify this head of the Roman Catholic Church, whose current holder is Benedict XVI.
The Pope [or Bishop of Rome; or Vicar of Jesus Christ; or Successor of the Prince of the Apostles; or Supreme Pontiff of the Universal Church; or Primate of Italy; or Archbishop and Metropolitan of the Roman Province; or Sovereign of the State of Vatican City; or Servant of the Servants of God; or Pontifex Maximus; or Patriarch of the West; prompt on His Holiness]
1

113716-)
Early Catholic dogma used the adjective "inadequate" to modify this concept if it suggested one would achieve either "glory" or "grace," but not both, and Pope John Paul II said the negative form of this concept does not exist. Its so-called "double" form is espoused in the faith with which this concept is most associated, suggesting that both "reprobation" and "election" are already set. That idea of this concept is set forward in the Westminster Confession of Faith which states that God "unchangeably ordain[s] whatsoever comes to pass." Most often associated with Calvinism, FTP what is this idea that one's salvation or damnation is predetermined by God?
Predestination
6

120070-)
An Ottoman army was apocryphally frightened off by priests from St. Justine's waving this saint's skull over thewalls of Rab, Croatia, either by his divine intercession or by making the enemy realize that the town was full ofinsane skull-removing priests. Scholars identify this man with the Egyptian St. Minas. According to the GoldenLegend, this man sought out a bandit after hearing a king say he feared the devil, but left after finding the banditfeared Jesus. Various translation errors led Orthodox iconographers to depict this man as a hulking giant with thehead of a dog. A hermit told this man to use his large size to ferry people across a river. For 10 points, name thispatron saint of travelers who thus became understandably known as "Christ-bearer."
St. Christopher
7

126490-)
This monastic order permanently gave up meat after its seven founding monks allegedly fell asleep for forty-five days and awoke to find their meat turned to ash. Philip Groning spent six months filming the lives of some of these monks for his 2005 documentary Into Great Silence. This order, which was founded by Bruno of Cologne, has an emblem which includes a banner with seven stars and the motto "the cross stands  rm while the world turns." On Mondays, members of this contemplative order take a long walk called a spatiamentum. The monks of this order occupy themselves by distilling a sweet liqueur which has given its name to a greenish-yellow color. This hermit order lives in monasteries called "charterhouses." For 10 points, name this monastic order which is named for its founding monastery near Grenoble in the French Alps, the Grand Chartreuse.
Carthusian Order [accept the Order of Saint Bruno until "Bruno"]
8

146004-)
A soldier executed for rape and murder in this country became the folk saint “John the Soldier” after there were reports of blood seeping from his grave and miracles occurring nearby. In 2012, a woman in this country was arrested for performing human sacrifice in the cult of Holy Death. That cult is popular among criminals in this country, as is the cult of the Robin Hood-esque (*) Jesús Malverde. A man in this country had four visions and was told by the fourth to collect non-native roses in his cloth as proof, and when he later opened the cloth, an image of the Virgin Mary had appeared. The Catholic Church in this country has condemned the growing popularity of syncretic “narco-saints”. For 10 points, name this country where Juan Diego saw Our Lady of Guadalupe.
Mexico &lt;Bailey&gt;
6

146049-)
This state is home to Matthew Barnett’s Dream Center in Echo Park, near the former site of Life Bible College, which is the educational arm of a denomination founded in this state. In 2008, a Lake Forest megachurch in this state hosted the Civil Forum on the Presidency between John McCain and Barack Obama and was moderated by the author of The Purpose Driven Life. A Roman Catholic diocese in this state recently purchased the building where Robert Schuller hosted the Hour of Power; that building is a Philip (*) Johnson-designed glass church. Aimee Semple McPherson founded the Church of the Foursquare Gospel in a southern city in this state, which is home to the Rick Warren’s Saddleback Community Church near Mission Viejo in Orange County. For 10 points, name this state, home to the Archdiocese of Los Angeles.
California
6

148897-)
This book’s opening word was first rendered in Greek as mataiotes (“mah-tah-YO-tays”), which may explain its corruption from an original meaning of “breath.” This book’s final chapter lists times such as “when the keepers of the house tremble” and “when the almond tree blossoms” as times to perform its invocation to “Remember your Creator,” and compares shepherds’ goads to the words of men such as its narrator, an unnamed “Teacher.” John Paul II’s encyclical Laborem exercens says “no one on earth… could not apply” words from this book’s discussion of the fruitlessness of labor “under the sun.” This book says “for everything there is a season, and a time for every purpose under heaven” and opens by declaring that all is hevel (“HEH-vell”) or “vanity.” For 10 points, name this Bible book consisting of Solomon’s reflections, whose English name is a Greek word for congregations.
Ecclesiastes [accept Kohelet or Koheleth] &lt;Religion&gt;
7

150204-)
This religious organization’s founder collected 999 maxims introduced as “things that I whisper in your ear, as a friend, as a brother, as a father” in a book titled The Way. This organization’s governance is documented by the apostolic constitution Ut sit, which established it as the first personal prelature of the Catholic Church. Though most members of this organization are (*) supernumeraries who are allowed to marry, this organization’s numeraries are required to remain unmarried and celibate. Some members of this organization controversially wear a cilice, a metal chain with small prongs, around their thigh as part of corporal mortification. This organization, mostly made up of laymen, was founded by Josemaría Escrivá and emphasizes the “sanctification of ordinary work.” For 10 points, name this Catholic organization whose name is Latin for “Work of God.”
Opus Dei &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
8

150300-)
This man is the narrator of a pseudonymous story in which an old man debates St. Peter over the futility of prayer before this man and his brothers ultimately recognize the old man as their father. That romance narrated by this man also describes how Simon Magus proclaimed a woman named Luna or Helena to be Sophia incarnate, and exists in two versions as the Greek Homilies (“HOM-uh-leez”) and the Latin Recognitions. This pope is credited with a namesake (*) epistle to the Church in Corinth in response to a dispute in which young men deposed established leaders; that epistle is possibly the earliest Christian text outside of the New Testament. This pope is the patron saint of mariners and is symbolized by an anchor, since he was supposedly martyred by being tied to one and thrown into the sea. For 10 points, name this fourth pope, who is considered to be the first of the Apostolic Fathers.
Clement I [or Clemens Romanus or Clement of Rome; accept Clementine Homilies, Clementine Recognitions, Clementine romance, or Clementine literature; do not accept “Clement of Alexandria”] &lt;WC, Religion&gt;
8

152918-)
This religion’s founder was healed by Phineas Quimby, and later wrote The Manual of the Mother Church. Branch churches in this religion do not use an article in their name so as to not be confused with the Mother Church in Boston. There are 26 topics for this religion’s Lesson-Sermons, but sometimes “Christ, Jesus” gets read three times in a year. (*) Adherents meet on Sundays in Reading Rooms, mostly in the United States but around the world. This religion publishes a newsletter focused on domestic and international current events, titled The Monitor. Its female founder wrote its primary text in 1875, Science and Health with a Key to the Scriptures. For 10 points, name this religion founded by Mary Baker Eddy which, like Pentecostalism, does not condone the use of medicine because of the belief that disease comes from fear.
Christian Science or Church of Christ, Scientist &lt;Mathew&gt;
5

153631-)
In The Stripping of the Altars, Eamon Duffy recounts how, when this practice became widespread, some medieval English people would go to several Masses in one Sunday, leaving immediately after the performance of this ritual. Along with several bows, one version of this ritual is performed between the two components of the anaphora, which are followed by the anamnesis. In the Roman Canon, one instance of this practice follows the “Per quem hæc omnia” and coincides with the “Per ipsum,” i.e. “Through him, and with him, and in him....” After one version of this ritual, its central object is returned to the (*) paten. In Catholicism, this nonverbal practice and its two surrounding bows are each accompanied by a ringing of the altar bell. This ritual typically comes before the Fraction following the Words of Institution and the Lord’s Prayer, and was originally designed to make the product of transubstantiation visible. For 10 points, name this ritual in which the consecrated bread and wine is raised.
elevation of the Host [accept any answer involving elevation, e.g. elevation of the Elements; prompt on Eucharist] &lt;Religion&gt;
9

154129-)
A saint of this name gave his follower Serapion a sheepskin cloak after his death. A Portuguese saint of this name converted the heretics of Rimini after he went to a river, started preaching, and numerous fish listened to his sermons. An order named for another saint of this name became renowned for treating "holy fire," or ergotism. A saint of this name, who was the subject of a biography by Athanasius, was a (*) hermit who once found a plate made of silver in the desert. That figure of this name was a desert father who supposedly encountered a demonic satyr and centaur while trying to find Paul, and once saw many little demons while occupying a cave. For 10 points, give this name of an Alexandrian saint whose "temptation" was frequently depicted in art.
Anthony [accept Saint Anthony the Great or Saint Anthony of Padua or Anthony of Lisbon] &lt;Jose, RMP - Bible/Christianity&gt;
5

155285-)
Members of the German Democratic Republic created the Jugendweihe as their own version of this event. During this event the Bishop sports red vestments symbolizing the red tongues of fire hovering over the heads of the apostles at Pentecost. The Catholic church will administer this event a second time on those coming from Protestant or Anglican churches, because those are seen as lacking properly ordained ministers. After this event, the person undergoing it becomes anointed as “a (*) soldier of Christ.” This sacrament differs from an earlier sacrament because each individual chooses their own sponsor, not their parents. This sacrament is generally performed during adolescence and each individual selects their own name for this sacrament. For 10 points, name this sacrament, that involves a characteristic profession of faith.
confirmation
8

155306-)
Members of the German Democratic Republic created the Jugendweihe as their own version of this event. During this event the Bishop sports red vestments symbolizing the red tongues of fire hovering over the heads of the apostles at Pentecost. The Catholic church will administer this event a second time on those coming from Protestant or Anglican churches, because those are seen as lacking properly ordained ministers. After this event, the person undergoing it becomes anointed as “a (*) soldier of Christ.” This sacrament differs from an earlier sacrament because each individual chooses their own sponsor, not their parents. This sacrament is generally performed during adolescence and each individual selects their own name for this sacrament. For 10 points, name this sacrament, that involves a characteristic profession of faith.
confirmation
8

158039-)
At Mount Horeb, this man does not hear God in an earthquake, wind, or fire, but only in a “still, small voice.” This Tishbite later performed a miracle by giving endless flour and oil to a widow in Zarephath. This man defeated the servants of Baal by calling down fire from heaven. Jesus compares John the Baptist to this prophet, who appeared with Moses and Jesus on the Mount of (*) Transfiguration. In First Kings, this prophet clashes with King Ahab and Queen Jezebel. On Passover, Jews leave out a “cup” for this prophet, since he will return with the Messiah. For 10 points, name this Biblical prophet, who was succeeded by Elisha after God whisked him away in a chariot of fire.
Elijah [or Elias; or Eliyahu; or Ilyas; do not accept or prompt on “Elisha”] &lt;MK&gt;
4

158188-)
An idol in the form of this creature was destroyed by the reforming king Hezekiah and was named Nehushtan. Moses had a bronze one of these animals made in order to heal those affected by a plague of “fiery” examples of these animals. A woman in the Torah is told that her child’s heel will bruise and be bruised by this creature. After he turned it into one of these animals, (*) Aaron’s rod swallowed other rods belonging to Pharaoh’s sorcerers. At the same time as women were cursed with painful childbirths, this animal was cursed to crawl on its belly. For 10 points, name these reptiles associated with Satan, one of which tempted Eve to eat the Forbidden Fruit.
serpents [accept snakes, vipers, etc.; accept nahash; prompt on reptiles before mentioned; prompt on dragons] &lt;MK&gt;
4

160137-)
When this substance was provided to a dying man using a sponge on a reed, some onlookers said, "Wait, let us see whether Elijah will come to save him." A comment about this substance prompted a man to declare, "Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come." This substance prompted a man to tell a bridegroom that, unlike others, he kept the best of this substance for last; that conversation took place at (*) Cana, where some servants were instructed to fill six large stone jars during a wedding. After instructing others to consume this substance, Jesus declared, "This is my blood of the covenant." For 10 points, name this beverage that is consumed along with bread during the Eucharist, which was also the product of Jesus's miraculous transformation of water.
wine [accept sour wine or vinegar during the first sentence; prompt on alcohol] <Cheng>
5

160432-)
One church that originated in this country was accused of murdering the British child Anna Climbie after she was allegedly possessed by demons. One evangelist in this country aroused controversy by kicking a statue of the Virgin Mary on national TV in 1995. That televangelist was a member of this country's Universal Church of the Kingdom of God, which is led by Bishop Edir Macedo. This country's Cardinal Odilo Scherer was a leading candidate to replace Pope Benedict XVI. It's not in Africa or North America, but in one religious tradition from this country, participants wear white and worship Olodumare and other orixas (“oh-REE-shah”). This country's state of Bahia is home to a large population of black Muslims. For 10 points, name this country where the syncretic religion of Candomblé (“CAN-dom-BLAY”) originated among slaves brought by Portuguese colonizers.
Brazil &lt;RMP Christian/Bible Religion - Myers&gt;
7

161659-)
12. Beginning on this calendar day, Poles leave an empty place at the table for an unplanned guest to arrive to a Wigilia ("vi-GIL-yuh") supper. Jews often consumed garlic and avoided latrines on this date, which they called Nittel Nacht. A feast sometimes known as The Vigil starts on this day in many Italian-American households and centers on eating seven different types of fish. The BBC broadcasts Nine Lessons on this date in between performances of the (*) Choir of King's College. A Clement Clarke Moore poem that opens on this date describes "visions of sugar-plums" dancing in the heads of sleeping children. Many celebrants stay up on this day for a Midnight Mass, often singing "Silent Night." For 10 points, name this day before Jesus's birth.
December 24th [accept Christmas Eve or The Night Before Christmas; prompt on Holy Night or Good Night; do not accept or prompt on "Christmas"]  &lt;Bentley, RMP - Judeo-Christian, Bible&gt;
5

