64521-)
The Jewish interpretation of this practice can be found in the section of the Mishneh Torah called "Hilkhot Avodat Kokhavim". In Hinduism, this practice is known as "puja murti" and is deemed important by the Bhagavad Gita because men desire to "perceive through their senses". Sikhs reject this practice in favor of meditation on "shabad", or God's word. In Islam, one must commit to tawhid, or monotheism, and avoid this practice, which is called "shirk". Protestants have often accused Catholics of conflating the "dulia" and "latria" forms of this practice, and it is mandatory in Orthodox Christianity in the form of icon veneration. For 10 points, name this religious taboo forbidden by the second commandment that involves praying to images instead of God himself.
idolatry [accept things like worshipping idols, praying to graven images before mentioned etc...]
6

66922-)
In the Spanish cabbalistic tradition this action was undertaken to counteract the effects of a state called 'ibbur. In Tamil communities, troupes of musicians called pampaikkarar
exorcism
8

67259-)
One figure in these texts is has aspects of Armaiti, Asha, and Khshathra, as well as three others termed the "Bountiful Immortals."  Only five of them have survived, but one of these "of the Seven Chapters," or Haptanghaiti, was written after their author's death and provides evidence of reform in that a new genre of feminine gena powers and a commentary on the pre-existent soul were created.  The worship of false religion is condemned in them, especially towards the "evil mind," Aka Manah, and other daevas.  Their final section is a dialogue between Jamaspa and their creator and they comprise Yasnas 28-53 of a sacred text alongside the Visperad, Videvdat, and Yashts.  For 10 points, name these Zoroastrian prayer-hymns.
Gathas [prompt on answers of Zend-Avesta, or on Yasna before it's mentioned]
8

73869-)
The first dated Bombay lithograph of this work was published in June 1893, in the hand of the calligrapher Mishkin-Qalam. Split into two parts, the second engages in theological proofs and contains the popular, "Tablet of the True Seeker." Composed in two days and  nights, the first part deals with the foundational tenets regarding the progressive and interrelated nature of revelation manifested in the other Abrahamic traditions as evinced by the verse, "Muhammed, Himself, declared: I am Jesus." Written as a response to the questions posed by the maternal uncle, a Muslim, of Siyyid Ali Muhammed Shiraz, also known as el-Bab or "The Gate," regarding the ontological validity and final causes of the Bab, for 10 points, name this chiefly theological work written by Mizra Husain-Ali, or Baha'u'llah the founder of Baha'i.
The Book of Certitude or Kitab-i-Iqan
7

74282-)
The "Treatise on the Emanations of the Left" by Rabbi Isaac ben Jacob ha-Kohen describes this figure possessing a "burning fire" from the waist down. The Zohar of Kabbalistic tradition posits that this figure is diametrically opposed to Shekhinah. Isaiah 34:13 uses the name of this figure to connote a "night bird." The story of this figure is related to Nebuchadnezzar by the title character in The Alphabet of Ben-Sira, in which this figure claims dominion over a certain child for either eight or twenty days, depending on the gender. In that story, the angels Sansenoy, Senoy, and Semangelof threaten to (*) drown this figure, who speaks the Ineffable Name after an argument regarding the position she should take relative to her husband during intercourse. This woman has been syncretized with Lamia and has been treated as an evil temptress. For 10 points, identify this figure, the supposed first wife of Adam.
Lilith [accept Lamia until mention]
7

74513-)
In the scripture written by this author, he poses the questions "Through whom does the moon wax and wane?" and "Who, by procreation, is the primal father of Truth?" That work by this author identifies this figure as a member of the tribe of Spit?ma, his ancestor. A later text reveals that this figure was among eighty priests that were martyred during an attack on the court of Vishtaspa. This figure attempted to establish recognition of the lord of trial by water, Varuna, or Apam Napat, who also upheld
Zoroaster [or Zarathustra]
7

75140-)
In Islam, a prayer called the Salat al-Janazah is spoken before and on behalf of these entities. Jewish advocacy groups and the Vatican have vehemently attacked the Mormon practice, promoted by James Strang, of baptizing them. Because they are not allowed to contaminate the earth or fire in (*) Zoroastrianism, they are given to the birds in Dakhmas or "Towers of Silence." In their honor, adherents of Judaism wear a torn garment called the keriah during the seven days of sitting shiva. Most indulgences were purchased to benefit them and the Kaddish is often said for them in Judaism. For 10 points, name these entities that either go to heaven or hell in Christianity.
dead people [or "corpses," or other equivalents]
9

83250-)
The opening line of the Brhadaranyaka Upanishad states that this animal's head is the dawn before going on to compare each of its body parts to something and telling a story about death transforming himself into this animal. Uchaishravas was a flying animal of this kind that emerged from the churning of the milk ocean and was eventually acquired by Indra. The ashvamedha ceremony involved mimicked copulation between this animal and the queen and functioned as a kingship ritual that ended in this animal's sacrifice, a key ceremony in Vedic and Proto-Indo-European religion whose sacrificial victims would be selected for prowess in racing. For ten points, name this animal that says "neigh".
horse [accept: ashva from an adhvaryu priest before "ashvamedha"]
9

84572-)
This deity's temple was the site of refuge for Apollonius, a general of the Seleucid Demetrius II, after he lost to the armies of Jonathan Maccabaeus. Shamsi-edad I of Assyria built a temple to him at Tirga, where he was part of a trinity with Shamash and Idurmer. Along with Nergal and Misharu, he was one of the Assyrian judges of the dead. Naram-Sin claimed to have conquered the West with weapons from this deity, and the Hebrew word for "corn" has led some to associate him as a god of that domain. In I Chronicles it is said that the head of Saul was fastened to this god's temple, and after the Ark of the Covenant was captured and placed in a temple to this god, a statue of this god fell to the ground. Sometimes misinterpreted as a ? fish-god, he was worshiped in Ashkelon and Gaza. FTP, name this god who received praise when the Philistines finally captured Samson.
Dagon [or Dagan or Dagun] (4)
9

87076-)
One of this belief’s holy texts states that those who “tread the path of faith” and “thirst for the wine of” truth “must cleanse themselves of all that is earthly.”  That work, the Book of Certitude, was retranslated into English by one of its leaders Shoghi Effendi, along with the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf  and The Seven Valleys.  Followers of this faith observe eleven holy days over the course of a year divided into nineteen months with nineteen days.  They believe that all religions, though possessing different tenets and creeds, originate from a same identical God.  For 10 points – name this Persia-based religion whose most famous prophets include Siyyid Ali-Muhammad, or the Bab, and Baha’u’llah.
Bahai
3

88195-)
In the Qur'an, a person of this name is the chief advisor to Pharaoh during the time of Moses. One legend states that he spent 22 years as a barber, and he is frequently claimed to be the same person as Memucan. He is an Agagite, husband to Zeresh, and the father of at least ten sons who are all ultimately put to death. Before being forced to dress his nemesis in the king's robes and lead him around, this astrologer selects the date of Adar 13 for a plan. After the King interprets his actions as sexually assaulting the replacement of Vashti, he is hanged on the gallows he had prepared for Mordechai. For 10 points, identify this antagonist of the book of Esther whose ears name a delicious Purim pastry.
Haman {EN}
9

114938-)
In the Mormon conception of the afterlife, the Terrestrial Heaven is described as having a glory equivalent to this object, and in Psalm 72 David remarks that abundant peace shall exist in Solomon's lands so long as this object "endureth."  More famously, as described in the 54th Sura of the Qu'ran, Muhammad supposedly split this object into two parts, although disbelievers explained this action away as "transient magic." In Chinese thought, this object is associated with a rabbit who creates herbal medicines from scratch.According to Joel, and repeated in the Revelation of John the Divine, at the Day of Judgment this object will be turned to blood. For 10 points, name this astronomical body, which, along with the sun and the stars, was halted in its tracks by Joshua.
the moon
7

117786-)
Baha'i adherents may carry these objects to help with recitations. Like those found in Islamic traditions, these are kept in numerical accordance to the names of God. In Zen Buddhism, collections of these usually number 108; only the first hundred are used to count out spoken mantras. The paternoster and chotki are forerunners to these meditative objects commonly used in Christian denominations. Frequently used to focus the petitioner's thoughts and spiritual energies, FTP, what are these religious objects, a necklace type of which is a rosary?
prayer beads
6

119092-)
In one religion in this country, funerals are sometimes held years after death so that families can throw a lavishenough ceremony to help the decedent reach an afterlife called "Puya." It's not Ethiopia, a religious tradition inthis country traces itself back to a group of nine semi-historical apostles. A Muslim movement in this country,which struck out at perceived superstitions, was founded by Ahmad Dahlan and called Muhammadiyah. TheToraja practice the animist "aluk" faith in this country. A tradition in this country includes feasts called (*)"slametans" and is divided into "abangan" and "santri" variants. Monotheism is the first of five principles in thiscountry's official founding philosophy of Pancasila. For 10 points, name this most populous Muslim country, whichwas discussed by Clifford Geertz in Islam Observed and The Religion of Java.
Indonesia
9

126590-)
According to English popular tradition, the weather on St. Swithun's Day will persist for this length of time. In Islam, Adam is said to have received his life-breath this long after he was formed from clay. Before getting killed by Jesus, it is prophesied that the Islamic false messiah figure Al-Masih ad-Dajjal will spend this length of time corrupting the earth. A journey which retrieved grapes from the brook of Eshcol lasted for this length of time, after which a favorable report was given by Caleb and Joshua. In Jewish tradition, an embryo receives its soul this long after conception. In a New Testament story, Jesus refuses to throw himself from the top of a tower or to create bread out of stones despite spending this much time being tempted by the devil, inspiring the observance of Lent. For 10 points, name this running time of the deluge which flooded the world in the Book of Genesis.
forty days and nights
8

131915-)
One work by this thinker includes an appendix that defines “fire-philosophers” and contrasts Robert Fludd’s distinction of the components of fire with that of the theurgists. A ridiculous claim by this thinker is that Iamblichus is superior to Plotinus because the former was the first person to levitate in the air. According to another work, the earth was inhabited by black people who used the sacred word “tau” in meditation and airships powered by a substance called vril - that idea was most likely stolen from the novels of Edward Bulwer Lytton. According to that work, the earth was populated with ethereal humans who split like amoebas. After writing The Secret Doctrine, she then created a society with “twelve inner circles” after founding its international branch in Chennai, India. For 10 points, identify this woman, whose writings such as Isis Unveiled popularized the Theosophy movement.
Helena Blavatsky [accept dumber than Judith Butler? Is that possible?]
9

132931-)
A book about these buildings featuring photographs taken by Ralph Savage was written by James Talmage in response to a blackmail attempt that involved the publication of a book featuring interior photographs of these buildings taken by Gisbert Bossard under the direction of the con artist Max Florence. Each of these buildings has at least one room with large mirrors on opposite walls, as well as a room containing an object supported by twelve bronze oxen, modeled after the description of the Molten Sea in 1 Kings and 2 Chronicles. A (*) Hosanna shout takes place during the dedication of these buildings. Only people possessing a namesake "recommend" and wearing a namesake "garment" may enter these buildings, which contain Sealing Rooms for performing celestial marriages and basins for conducting posthumous baptisms. For 10 points, name these sacred buildings of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints.
Mormon temples [accept equivalents for "Mormon," such as  Latter  Day Saints before mention; prompt on "temples"]
8

133471-)
One of this movement’s foundational texts concludes with a “Diploma” in a final chapter on “The Theological Lawgiver of Creation.” That text helped inspire one of its adherents, who took the pen name G. G. Maragh to write about King Alpha and Queen Omega in another of its central texts, The Promise Key. The Prophet Gad founded one of this movement’s branches, or mansions, known as the Twelve Tribes of Israel. Other important textual sources for this religion include one organized into four “Books of (*) Athlyi,” The Holy Piby, and one that describes a dynastic line descended from Queen Makeda, the Kebra Nagast. Adherents of this religion celebrate several grounations, partake of the i-tal diet, and participate in ceremonies known as reasonings that feature the smoking of ganja. For 10 points, name this Jamaican religion whose adherents believe Haile Selassie is Jah incarnate.
Rastafarianism [Accept Rasta]
9

143285-)
The initiates of this religion dedicate themselves to a protector known as a met tet during the kanzo ceremony. This religion believes in the spirit world of Ginen, and the Ghede, Rada, and Petro spirits serve its chief god. The male priests of this religion are called houngan, and a (*) top-hat wearing deity in this religion is called Baron Samedi. Bondye is the chief god of this religion, which believes in spirits called loa that power the curses and magic found in this religion. For 10 points, name this syncretic religion from Haiti and Louisiana popularly known for zombies and its namesake dolls.
Vodou (or Voodoo; or Vodun)
4

143372-)
The second leader of this religion wrote the book The Secret of Divine Civilization. This religion’s founder announced he was “He whom God shall make manifest” at the Garden of Ridvan and later wrote The Seven Valleys. The Ten Year Crusade was launched to promote this religion by its (*) “Guardian,” Shoghi Effendi. This religion uses a nine-pointed star as a symbol and its primary text is the Book of Certitude. The founder of this religion was a follower of the Bab, and this religion is centered at the Universal House of Justice in Haifa, Israel. For 10 points, name this Middle Eastern religion founded by Baha’ullah.
Baha’i faith
4

146729-)
One of this faith's members summarized its principles in the Tablet to the Hague. A symbol of this religion is the Ringstone. Four goals of this religion were developed in the Ten Year Crusade, and one of its leaders eulogized two brothers and attacked a critical cleric in the Epistle to the Son of the Wolf. This religion's only Guardian was (*) Shoghi Effendi. Jesus and the Bab were among the Manifestations of God in this religion whose holy text, the Book of Certitude, was written by Baha'u'llah. For 10 points, name this Persian religion centered in the Universal House of Justice in Haifa.
Baha'i faith
3

151976-)
A group from this country, the Nazareth Baptist Church, threatens legal action against companies that try to trademark an instrument allegedly invented by its founder. Missionaries sent from Zion, Illinois, to this country by John Alexander Dowie founded its Zionist Churches. A theology developed by a clergyman from this country is named for a term he used to mean “I am because we are.” Islam was introduced to this country by the (*) Malay population of one of its coastal cities. In the 1850s, a teenage prophetess promoted a mass cattle killing as part of a millenarian movement among this country’s Xhosa people. Ubuntu theology was developed by an Anglican bishop from this country, Desmond Tutu. For 10 points, name this country home to the diocese of Cape Town.
South Africa &lt;JB Religion&gt;
6

153120-)
In the ‘60s and ‘70s, a pair of studies on the worship of this figure were written by George Eaton Simpson and William Bascom. Along with Old Testament figures like Moses and Ezekiel, this figure was appropriated as a zombi in Kumina. This figure’s name is given to a polished stone that’s worshipped in St. Lucian kele, and he names a cult that’s particularly prominent in Recife. Priests of this figure traditionally dress with red and white necklaces in patterns of four and six beads. Worship of this figure, who names a traditional religion of Grenada, has been combined with Spiritual Baptists practices in (*) Trinidad. This former Oyo king is the figure most commonly worshiped using an asymmetrical hourglass drum called Batá. This figure is often invoked after dismissing Eshu and invoking Ogun. A double-headed axe symbolizes—for 10 points—what most popular Orisha, who represents thunder and lightning?
Shango [accept Sango, Chango, or Xango; accept Jakuta or Badé] <Religion>
9

157948-)
Neopagans celebrate this many seasonal festivals collectively known as “The Wheel of the Year.” A member of a group of this many people had a dream in which he became rich and famous then lost all of his wealth, all of which occurred when he fell asleep cooking yellow millet. A set of this number of blessings opens the Sermon on the Mount. A set of this many doctrines begins with (*) “right view” and “right resolve.” This is the number of Beatitudes. Daoists revere a group of this many “Immortals.” A doctrine named for this number is the last of the Four Noble Truths. Nirvana can be achieved through a “Noble” path of—for 10 points—what number of parts?
eight [accept Eight Immortals or Noble Eightfold Path] &lt;AF&gt;
4

158095-)
This religion’s initiation rite includes a series of baths and the crushing of leaves. Many rites in this religion are accompanied by words called “Langaj” with a “j.” In this religion, the soul is made up of the “big” and “little” good angels. Spirits in this religion are grouped into “nations” like Rada, Petro, and Ghede. This religion’s (*) sorcerers are known as bokor, and are contrasted with its male priests, or houngans and female priests, or mambos. In this religion, the supreme God Bondye can be reached by loas like the guardian of the crossroads Papa Legba and the death spirit Baron Samedi. For 10 points, name this syncretic religion of Haiti.
Voodoo [accept Vaudou, Vodun, Vodoun, Vodu, or Vaudoux] &lt;MK&gt;
4

158196-)
In this religion, the “living substance” is contrasted with the substances of motion, rest, atoms, space, and sometimes time. In this faith, the story of the blind men and the elephant is used to illustrate a concept of “non-one-sidedness.” This faith is represented by a logo including a crescent moon above three dots, all above a hand with a wheel on the palm. Members of this religion try to achieve correct knowledge, faith, and conduct. One of its sects believes that women can’t attain moksha and that monks should be (*) nude. Its monks use a broom to avoid killing insects. 24 tirthankaras, including Mahavira, founded—for 10 points—what Indian religion based on nonviolence, or ahimsa?
Jainism
4

158213-)
The Bible includes an enigmatic directive to catch these animals in Song of Songs 2:15 [“chapter two, verse fifteen”]. One of these animals is finally captured by his nephew Grimbert and brought to King Noble’s court in medieval tropes that often pit him against his scarred and deformed uncle Isengrim. In Japanese Shinto, these animals flank red torii [TOH-ree] gates in their capacity as servants of the kami Inari [eeh-NAH-ree]. These animals include the trickster (*) Reynard and the East Asian Huli jing, kumiho, and kitsune [“kit”-SOO-nay]; the latter of these, according to legend, may have up to nine tails. For 10 points, name this animal which complains about “sour grapes” in one of Aesop’s fables.
fox [or V. vulpes or Vulpes vulpes; accept red fox] &lt;HK&gt;
4

