60501-)
Maxime Rodinson wrote the most-read Marxist-perspective book of this kind, and other modern books of this kind include The Sealed Nectar and one strictly limited to primary sources by Martin Lings. In 1977, Marion Barry was shot during the occupation of buildings in Washington by protesters against a filmed version of one of these, which starred an interlocutor played by Anthony Quinn. The earliest ones are known as the sira, including an influential but lost one by Ibn Ishaq. These texts usually discuss incidents such as the extermination of the Banu Qurayza, the Night Journey to heaven, and the flight to Medina. For 10 points, identify this type of book which recounts the life of a Meccan merchant who was spoken to by Gabriel and told to transcribe the Quran.
biographies of Muhammad [or obvious equivalents; not "autobiographies of Muhammad", though]
7

70459-)
According to tradition, this figure helped Abraham regularly visit his wife Hagar. In art, this figure is traditionally depicted as having a woman's face and wearing a crown. In the Koran, this figure is so shamed by the criticism of the angel Jibril that he begins to sweat profusely. This figure is capable of taking steps equal to the range of human vision and is described as "bigger than a donkey, but smaller than a mule" and had wings attached to its thighs. This figure was most notably used to reach the farthest mosque in less than one day during the Night Journey. For ten points, name this steed on which Muhammad rode from Mecca to Jerusalem.
al-Buraq
9

71366-)
Participants are required to put on their best attire during the jumuah forms of this, and are always encouraged to express their heartfelt intention, called the niyah, when performing it. The set of actions required for performing it is called the rakat. Prior to performing it, one must engage in Wudu or Ghusl, and it is usually preceded by the adhaan. It requires the recitation of the Fatiha, and begins with the participant expressing the Takbir through the phrase "Allahu Akbar." Performed while facing the qibla in the direction of the Ka'aba, for 10 points, identify this action, which is required to be performed five times a day by Muslims.
Islamic prayer [accept salat or salah or namaz]
6

72584-)
If this action is not performed, one may compensate by caring for a poor person or making a bequest in a wasiyat, and it is interrupted by waking for a sahri. This action does not occur on the three days of Tashreek, and it can be voluntarily done on the first nine days of Zil-haj. It must begin with niyyah, or intention, and individuals can perform it early in Shawwal to (*) make up for days on which it was not performed. Commencing before the Salat-ul-Fajr, or dawn prayer, most ceremonially end this practice with daily iftars of dates and water when it occurs before Eid-al-Fitr. For 10 points, name this pillar of Islam known as sawm that is practiced during Ramadan and that involves abstention from food during the daylight hours.
fasting [or sawm before mention]
5

75864-)
One version of this practice can be used to determine whether an action is good or evil and is called the Istikhaarah. A part of this practice involves standing up and is known as I'tidal, while another involves returning to the original position during the Tashahhud. The Khawf variety is employed during times of fear or on the battlefield and along with the ishraq, is categorized with the Nafl type. The Jumu'ah version is performed in large groups and replaces the afternoon dhuhr on its namesake day. The process of ghusl or wudu must be performed before engaging in this activity and it is performed in repeated cycles known as raka'ah. Typically performed on a musalla while facing a qibla, for 10 points, identify this pillar of Islam that involves a five times per day ritual prayer.
salat or salah or namaz [prompt on prayer]
8

130947-)
On the day before this time period begins, certain individuals spend the night at Muzdalifah, after hearing a sermon atop Mount Arafat. During this time period, it is customary to divide up a qurban into three parts, one of which is shared with the needy. This time period is considered to be the “greater” of two time periods during which a special prayer with six additional (*) takbirs is said. During this celebration that begins on the tenth day of Dhu al-Hijjah, the jamarat become the targets of stone-throwing pilgrims participating in the Stoning of the Devil. This celebration, which marks the end of the hajj, is often commemorated by sacrificing an animal. For 10 points, name this Islamic celebration that commemorates the willingness of Ibrahim to sacrifice his son.
Eid al-Adha [accept Eid al-Kabir or Greater Eid until "greater" is read, but prompt afterwards]
7

153509-)
The tradition of connecting these events to landmark events in Islamic history took off after one of them supposedly inspired al-Mamun to order his scholars to translate Aristotle. Ibn Sirin, the son of one of Abu Bakr’s slaves, authored several treatises about these events. If an istikhara prayer is successful, it is supposed to be followed by one of these events. The Qur’an repeatedly contrasts ruya hasana, or “good,” examples of these events, with aghath al-ahlam, or “muddled” ones. According to Abu Hurayrah, Muhammad advised spitting in response to an unpleasant examples of these events, which he divided into righteous examples (*) sent by Allah, sad ones sent by Shaitan, and ones “in which a man’s own soul speaks.” Because of one of these events, Muhammad knew that he would be obstructed by the Quraiysh upon his return to Mecca to circumambulate the Ka’aba. Despite tradition dictating that Muhammad physically undertook the Night Journey, the Qur’an refers to it as, for 10 points, what kind of experience?
dreams &lt;Religion&gt;
9

154665-)
This holiday, whose cuisine is typically “salty” as opposed to “sweet,” is the year’s second major opportunity to use outdoor spaces known as “gah.” The second of two Bengali celebrations known as Chaand Raat, and the only one whose exact date is known well in advance, takes place the night before this holiday, which coincides with the end of one day’s fasting on the Day of Arafah. A special khutbah on this holiday, which begins on the tenth of Dhu al-Hijjah, includes instructions for qurbani. In many countries, the name of this holiday incorporates the word “bakri,” meaning “goat,” referencing a ritual slaughter of livestock that leads some English speakers to call this holiday the “Feast of the Sacrifice.” Hajj participants undertake the rami-al-jamarat, or Stoning of the Devil, on, for 10 points, what holiday that celebrates the willingness of Ibrahim to sacrifice his son and is the “Greater Eid” of the Islamic calendar?
Eid al-Adha [or Eid al-Kabir; accept Eid al-Adha or Eid al-Kabir after “Eid”; accept Bakr-Eid or Bakrid before “bakri”; prompt on “Greater Eid” before “Eid”; prompt on “al-Adha or “al-Kabir” before “Eid”; prompt on “Feast of the Sacrifice” or “Sacrifice Feast” before “sacrifice”]
8

156649-)
This man is replaced with a Zibhin azeem, or “great sacrifice,” after copper appears on him to prevent his death at the hand of his father. After this man’s mother ran back and forth between the hills of Al-Safa and Al-Marwah seven times, this figure scratched the ground with his heel to produce the (*) Well of Zamzam. That event took place after this figure and his mother were sent away because of his mother-in-law’s jealousy. This figure married two women from Jurhum, and he traveled to Mecca with Ibrahim to build the Kaaba. For 10 points, name this patriarch who was the half-brother of Ishaq and the first-born of Ibrahim by his mother Haajar.
Ismaa'eel [or Ishmael] &lt;McMaken&gt;
2

157995-)
Description acceptable. Two participants in this event were supposedly hidden when a spider spun a web covering the entrance to their cave overnight. “Helpers” during this event are called ansar. This event was followed by the writing of a Constitution that defined the ummah. The goal of this event was defended five years later in the Battle of the (*) Trench. This event took place in 622 A.D., which became the starting point of a calendar. After this event, its destination of Yathrib was renamed. Abu Bakr was a main participant in this event, which was prompted by an assassination plot among the Quraysh. For 10 points, name this event in which Muhammad was forced to leave his hometown.
hijrah [or hegira; accept any description indicating Muhammad’s flight from Mecca to Medina; accept answers describing Muhammad’s flight from Mecca to Yathrib until it’s mentioned] &lt;HK&gt;
4

158148-)
A dispute over this man was settled by a curse called a mubahala. This man breathes life into a clay bird in the third surah, which is named for his grandfather, Imran. This man, who spoke in the cradle, revealed the injil, and he’s mentioned more than any other person in the Quran. Either this man or the (*) Mahdi will slay the false Dajjal before the Day of Judgement. The Qur’an’s 19th surah is named for this man’s mother, who receives an annunciation from Jibril, or Gabriel. For 10 points, name this penultimate Messenger who preceded Muhammad, who Muslims hold is the son of the Virgin Mary, but not the son of God.
Isa ibn Maryam [accept Jesus Christ or obvious equivalents] &lt;HK&gt;
4

158932-)
According to the Ahmadiyya, this man is buried at Roza Bal, a shrine in Kashmir. In the Surat Al-Ma'ida, this man asked God to send down food from heaven. This man made a clay figure of a bird and breathed into it, causing it to come to life. After he was born, this man's mother was told to shake a palm tree for dates. The Surat An-Nisa describes the apparent (*) death of this man, who revealed that Injil was actually an illusion. This man will appear alongside the Mahdi and kill the Dajjal before the Day of Resurrection. In Islam, this man is considered to be the second-to-last prophet, preceding Muhammad. For 10 points, the Surat Maryam describes the virgin birth of which prophet, who in another tradition could walk on water?
Jesus Christ [accept either underlined portion; accept Isa ibn Maryam]
5

