67782-)
The period leading to this holiday is termed Bayn Ha-Metsarim, during which marriage is prohibited, and in the Shabbat Hazon preceding this holiday, the blessing of wine during havdalah is postponed to Sunday night. The eve of this day sometimes sees the consumption of a boiled egg sprinkled with ashes. As during any period of shiva, it is prescribed to sit on low stools during this holiday, and studying any but a few sad tractates is forbidden as it is an enjoyable activity. This holiday sees the reading of the Kinnot and of Aycha, the book of Lamentations, in the afternoon, and it commemorates, among other calamities, the destruction of the First and Second Temples of Jerusalem. For 10 points, name this mournful summer holiday occurring on the namesake ordinal day of a certain Hebrew month.
Tisha b'Av
7

76597-)
A “little” form of this holiday is celebrated in leap years, and children are instructed to make noise on this holiday.  Adults are supposed to drink until two specific phrases are indiscernible, and it includes the practice of mishloach manot, in which observers are to give a gift to two different people, as well as two edible “portions.”  Hamentaschen are made in preparation for this holiday, which is celebrated on the 14th of Adar.  Celebrating the execution of Haman, the book of Esther is read aloud during this holiday. FTP, identify this Jewish holiday.
Purim
3

83201-)
This object is discussed in the sixth tractate of the Tohorot in the Mishnah, which states that to be valid, one of these objects must contain at least 40 se'ah. A dispute exists over whether a person with uncombed hair or dreadlocks can properly use this object, and this object is used during the second stage of taharah, the preparation of bodies for burial. Keri, Zavah, and Niddah are states caused by discharge of bodily fluids that this object can remove via tevilah, or ablution via full-body immersion. For ten points, name this type of ritual bath, used for purification in Judaism.
Mikvah
9

84532-)
This religious movement established its first congregations after the Montreal Convention, and believes in the concept of "transvaluation" instead of divine revelation. Many of the English-language prayers of this movement were written by Eugene Kohn, and are collected in its main prayer book, Kol Haneshamah. Adherents of this movement do not view halakhah as binding, and do not consider themselves the "chosen people," beliefs advanced in its main founder's book Judaism as a Civilization. Cofounded by Ira Eisenstein and Mordecai Kaplan, this denomination believes that Judaism is an "evolving religious community" whose doctrines must be continually reinterpreted to adapt to historic circumstances. Originally an offshoot of the Conservative movement, FTP, name this fastest-growing denomination of Judaism, which is much less popular than ? Reform.
Reconstructionism [accept Reconstructionist Judaism] (4)
9

94487-)
The third of these people was known as the "Righteous Sprout" after a book he compiled, while the sixth of these people had his death sentence commuted while he sat in Spalerno Prison. The first holder of this position wrote "The Letter of Repentance" and "The Book of the Average Men," two sections of his five-part work, the Tanya. A later holder of this position established the custom of "Sunday Dollars," in which people lined up to receive dollar bills from him to give to charity. The best known holder of this title stayed at (*) 770 Eastern Parkway, which is now a pilgrimage site. This title was held by a man whose motorcade struck a child in 1991, leading to the Crown Heights riots. For 10 points, give this title held by members of the Schneerson family, who are at the center of a quasi-messianic branch of proselytizing Chassidic Jews.
Lubavitcher Rebbe [with any word form of "Lubavitch"; or Schneerson before it is read; prompt on rabbis]
9

123214-)
On the day before this holiday, some believers practice kapparot, the swinging of a chicken. This holiday includes readings from the Book of Jonah and ends with the ne'ila prayer. The Kol Nidre prayer is recited on this last of the High Holy Days that follow (*) Rosh Hashanah. This holiday includes a day of fasting and vidui, the confession of sins. For ten points, name this Jewish" Day of Atonement."
Yom Kippur (accept Day of Atonement before it is read)
1

155387-)
Paul Kahle (“KAH-luh”) was forced to base his edition of this group of works on the Leningrad Codex, since he was not allowed access to a Syrian manuscript that was a few decades older. A spoken vernacular paraphrase of this group of works was called a targum (“tar-GOOM”). This collection is alternatively known by the substantive form of the word “to read,” or Mikrah (“meek-RAH”). The Aleppo Codex is the oldest surviving complete version of this collection, whose passages are used to show that God is incorporeal and can only be defined with negative means in The Guide for the Perplexed. The Masoretic text is the authoritative version of this collection, whose name is actually an acronym, with two of its sources being nevi’im (“neh-vee-EEM”) and ketuvim (“k’too-VEEM”), meaning “prophets” and “writings.” For 10 points, name this collection of twenty-four canonical Hebrew books that overlaps with most of the Old Testament.
Tanakh [accept Hebrew Bible; prompt on the Bible; prompt on the Old Testament; anti-prompt on the Torah by asking “what set of Jewish texts is the Torah part of?”]
7

157974-)
Before saying a prayer about this thing, it’s traditional to cover or remove challah from the table. The Havdalah candle is traditionally extinguished using this substance. A small amount of this substance is usually administered right before a bris. This substance is blessed by saying “Borei Pri HaGafen.” Shabbat is celebrated using two candles, two loaves of challah, and this substance. This is the flagship product of (*) Manischewitz [“man”-ih-SHEH-vitz]. The kiddush is said over this substance, which is dropped onto one’s plate to represent the 10 plagues. The Passover seder is organized around four cups of—for 10 points—what alcoholic drink?
wine [accept grape juice] &lt;JR&gt;
4

158169-)
After one of these events, the practices of tahara are typically overseen by a local hevra kadisha. This kind of event is followed by the shloshim, and yizkor prayers are said following them. After one of these events, some people make a keriah by ripping their shirt, and they do not wear leather, shower, or shave for seven days. Traditionally, the Sh’ma is supposed to be the last thing recited before this kind of event. These events are annually (*) commemorated using a yahrzeit candle. After one of these events, relatives “sit shiva” and say the Kaddish for 11 months. For 10 points, name this kind of event immediately followed by a Jewish funeral.
deaths [accept reasonable equivalents] &lt;JR&gt;
4

