68587-)
This work proposes a solution that it credits to Moisey Ostrogorsky, though, at its end, it admits that the men it describes are nowhere to be found, and thus that "it is not summer's front which lies before us, but first of all a polar night of icy darkness and severity." This work gives Maecenas and Tammany Hall as examples of "enterpreneurs" who can use money to gain power, while naming the anti-democratic stances of the Catholic Centre Party and the Social Democrats as responsible for the impotence of Parliament in Germany. It proposes a "plebiscitarian" solution to the central problem of how bureaucracy can be subordinated to democracy, identifies tradition, legality, and charisma as the three sources of legitimation, and defines the state as the entity with a "monopoly of the legitimate use of physical force." For 10 points, identify this speech, which was delivered, a year after a companion lecture on careers science, to graduates in Munich in 1918, and consists of analysis of the role of the professional party employee by Max Weber.
"Politics as a Vocation" [or "Politik als Beruf"]
9

72893-)
In a recounting of the travels that led to this work, its author discusses a host who has a black bear as a guard dog.  Its first part shows that division of property among children and rotation in office create a so-called absolute equality central to the title structure, and observes that religion is prominent in political life precisely due to its disestablishment. The second volume of this result of a trip with Gustave de Beaumont, ostensibly to inspect prison systems, examines civil society in the title place. Taking as a central theme the idea that tyranny of the majority is a natural consequence of the titular political system, for 10 points, name this magnum opus of Alexis de Tocqueville.
Democracy in America
7

72972-)
This man spoke of “hot” and “cool” types of the titular concept in one work, and this founder of the journal Exploration claimed that Finnegan's Wake was about "ten thunders."  He criticized the techniques of a certain periodical as "the ballet Luce" in a book about "the folklore of industrial man", and a cycle of enhancement, obsolescence, retreival, and reversal was this man's "tetrad", by which a certain type of technology influenced society. This author of The Mechanical Bride subtitled another book "The Making of Typographic Man" which introduced his concept of the "global village".  For 10 points, name this author of The Gutenberg Galaxy and Understanding Media, who said “The medium is the message.”
Marshall McLuhan
7

73086-)
This author compared Lampedusa's The Leopard with Visconti's film adaptation in his final work, The Late Style.  A series of conversations moderated by Ara Guzelimian between this man and the conductor of the West-Eastern Divan Orchestra formed the basis of Parallels and Paradoxes.  In addition to his collaborations with Daniel Barenboim, another work of his contained a notable postcolonialist critique of Mansfield Park.  This theorist's best-known work identified the titular construction as identification, by imperialist Westerners, of Arab and other Eastern cultures as a homogenized, caricatured "other". A notable advocate of the "right of return", for 10 points, name this Palestinian-American author of Culture and Imperialism and Orientalism.
Edward Said
7

73777-)
Norbert Elias critiqued this model for its over reliance on the concept of the nation-state and its use of social-context free "pattern variables." Its formulator associated a "symbolic medium of exchange" to each function, they include: money, power, influence and commitment. Its functional scheme can be divided into external and internal problems, as well as long and short intervals. A central function in this model is carried out by institutions such as religion and the media, and is called Integration. Outlined in its developer's work The Social System, for 10 points, name this sociological paradigm of structural functionalism, some of whose core functions include Adaptation and Latency, developed by Robert Merton and Talcott Parsons, it is typically known by its four-letter acronym.
AGIL paradigm
7

75067-)
This work notes that people are being willfully controlled by large social structures and worries they will become "cheerful robots." An appendix published with this book includes excerpts of its author's detailed notes on Gaetano Mosca as an example for students and is titled "On Intellectual Craftsmanship." This work attacks the relentless pursuit of data on minutiae exemplified by Paul Lazarsfield's work, which its author compares to market research and terms "abstracted empiricism." The first attack in this work is against the elaborate ungrounded systems propounded especially by Talcott Parsons which are deemed "Grand Theory." Instead, beginning in its opening chapter "The Promise," this work advocates a problem oriented approach which focuses on connecting the travails of individual people to greater social movements. For 10 points, name this work by C. Wright Mills.
The Sociological Imagination
9

88785-)
In the second part of Ludwig von Mises' book Human Action, Mises claims that this concept should be understood metaphorically and that its tools can only operate in times of peace. Richard Hofstadter traced it in American thought, identifying Lester Ward as one of its main opponents. This two-word concept titles a book with such sections as "Sociology," "War," and "Some Natural Rights" written by William Sumner, but its first and best-known proponent was the man who, in his 1864 work Principles of Biology, coined the term "survival of the fittest." FTP, name this theory most famously advocated by Herbert Spencer and which sought to apply evolutionary methods to the study of society.
social Darwinism
7

129959-)
Together with Christopher Jencks, this thinker co-authored a sociological history of the American education system titled The Academic Revolution. This thinker had planned on punning on that title in a later work that was to be titled The Academic Counterrevolution; instead, that work, which criticized the consumerist attitude of university students, was titled On Higher Education. This thinker collected essays like his satirical vision of bombing the USSR with consumer goods, titled "The Nylon War," and his criticism of deterrence, titled "The American Crisis," in a collection whose titled asked Abundance for What? Lionel Trilling praised another collection of this man's essays for being better than any American novel in "giv[ing] me the sense of the actuality of our society;" that collection, which contained an essay titled "Philosophy for Minority Living," and coined the term "nerve of failure" to refer to Jews' ability to be themselves despite general societal disapproval, was Individualism Reconsidered. This man's most famous work analyzed the "changing American character" as it transitioned from inner-directed to outer-directed. For 10 points, identify this American sociologist who together with Reul Denny and Nathan Glazer co-authored The Lonely Crowd.
David Riesman
9

142905-)
An essay by Peter Wollen compares these things to the element of "ice," saying they have "cryogenic power." Another analysis of these things discusses their power of both studium and punctum, or the "civility" and “pricks.” An essay about these things begins by stating "Humankind lingers unregenerately in Plato's Cave" and notes that humanity is educated by these creations, which are "experience captured." An essay by Roland (*) Barthes whose title mentions the word "lucida" is about the power of looking at these things. Another essay about these things notes that to create them is to violate people, since to use the object that creates them is to engage in "subliminal murder"; that essay is by Susan Sontag. For 10 points, name these things which Diane Arbus produced, one of which shows a child with a toy hand grenade in Central Park.
photographs [or photos; prompt on cameras or film; do not accept or prompt on "films" or "works of art" that do not mention photos.]
7

152597-)
This author of “Blackberry Winter” studied the Tchambuli, Mundugumor, and Arapesh groups in one of her works, and this person wrote Male and Female, in which she compared Pacific tribesmen to men and women in the contemporary United States. Derek Freeman criticized this woman’s (*) Sex and Temperament in Three Primitive Societies, claiming that natives she interviewed on a Polynesian island lied about their experiences. For 10 points, name this American anthropologist who claimed that adolescence on Ta’u was less stressful due to fewer sexual norms, in her work the Coming of Age in Samoa.
Margaret Mead
4

155380-)
The legal scholar Ralph Richard Banks analyzed the barriers to this practice in the African-American community in a book whose title asks Is [This] For White People? It’s not personality, but in The Truly Disadvantaged, William Julius Wilson developed an “MMPI” index to analyze the connections between the potential for this practice and employment. A 2000 book by Nancy Cott argues that this practice has historically functioned as a “pillar of the state.” The idea that the historical legacy of the slave economy’s discouragement of this practice had produced a “tangle of pathology” in African-American families was central to the Moynihan Report. Pace v. Alabama upheld the constitutionality of a ban on forms of this practice through anti-miscegenation laws. For 10 points, name this practice historically signified by “jumping the broom” in certain black cultures following a wedding ceremony.
marriage [accept equivalents like getting married or getting hitched; accept wedding until it is read]
7

157635-)
The first one of these institutions in New York State was designed by Joseph-François Mangin and was later replaced by a facility in Ossining. Institutions of this type across Europe, such as Bridewell, were studied in the late 1700s by John Howard, and a book titled American [this institution] chronicled the history of these institutions, along with Mother Jones reporter Shane (*) Bauer’s experience working in one of them. David Skarbek’s The Social Order of the Underworld studies how these places derive structure and order through groups like the Nuestra Familia. In late August and early September 2018, a nationwide strike was organized in these places to protest exploitative labor practices, and these institutions are said to have created a racial caste system in Michelle Alexander’s The New Jim Crow. For 10 points, name these places that hold inmates.
prisons [or jails; or penitentiaries] &lt;AJ, Social Science (Sociology)&gt;
7

159315-)
In a book titled for these people’s culture, the anthropologist Sabina Magliocco (“mall-YO-ko”) used a term from Michel de Certeau (“sair-TOH”) to describe them as “textual poachers” of the work of Charles Leland (“LEE-land”) and Margaret Murray. Peter Geschiere (“guh-SHEER-uh”) notes that among the modern Maka people, the elite Grands (“grahnd”) are thought to derive power from a group of these people engaged in djambe (“JOM-bay”). A book by Silvia Federici argues that campaigns against these people were central to the creation of the proletariat during the transition to capitalism. These people are defined by their inheritance of mangu in their stomach, and their actions are sometimes detected by people who poison a chicken with benge (“BEN-gay”), according to a book by E. E. Evans-Pritchard that examines oracles and these people in Azande culture. The Malleus Maleficarum is a manual for resisting the influence of, for 10 points, what people, typically women, who were often burned at the stake in 17th-century Europe?
witches [accept Witching Culture or The Modernity of Witchcraft or Caliban and the Witch; accept witch doctors or Wiccans; prompt on healers, magicians, shamans, neo-Pagans, sorcerers, or women] &lt;Social Science&gt;
7

