63076-)
His surgical skills were said to be so precise that he could insert a catheter into a femoral artery without anesthesia and produce no pain. This researcher used that technique on a procedure that maintains blood flow to a pouch which is isolated from the influence of food. He used that pouch to show how secretions from digestive glands facilitate digestion, as well as in an experiment where he caused those glands to secrete fluid without introducing any food. For 10 points, name this man whose experiments with dogs showed that ringing a bell could cause salivation, establishing the basics of classical conditioning.
Ivan Petrovich Pavlov
3

68329-)
One man with this last name included Narcissism and Pugnacity in a list of "ergs," or innate drives. An unrelated woman with this last name extended the age range of the Stanford-Binet test down to 3 months with a namesake Infant Intelligence Scale. That woman, Psyche, was the daughter of a man with this last name who taught Edward Thorndike and experimented with hashish while working as an assistant to Wundt. The first man with this last name distinguished between crystal and fluid forms of intelligence, while the second man with this last name founded Popular Science and Scientific Monthly. The first man with this last name studied with Charles Spearman, and used Spearman's method of factor analysis to develop a list of 16 primary traits and then derive the "Big Five" global personality traits. For 10 points, give this last name shared by psychometricians Raymond and James McKeen.
Cattell
9

76087-)
Hans Phaf created a connectionist model of this concept, SLAM. Eriksen and St. James developed the zoom-lens model of this concept in contrast to the spotlight model of it.  According to Anne Treisman's model of this concept, selected features are assimilated into a saliency map. That model is known as feature integration theory. The Stroop effect occurs because of interference with this concept. Daniel Simons and Christopher Chabris demonstrated this concept's "blindness" in an experiment in which fifty percent of subjects did not perceive a person in a gorilla suit because they were counting the number of times that teams passed a basketball. For 10 points, name this psychological concept which William James defined as the mind's possession "of one out of...several simultaneously possible objects or trains of thought," whose deficit leads to a disorder found in hyperactive children.
attention [accept word forms]
8

76356-)
Bart Kosko developed the “fuzzy” type of these concepts, which are measured by Hasse diagrams. Robert Axelrod's book The Structure of Decision analyzes these concepts in political elites. These concepts are divided into “route-based” and “survey level” types, and were introduced in an article about rats which navigated radial alleys in an elevated maze. These concepts were first theorized by the author of Purposive Behaviors in Animals and Men, who compared them to “sign Gestalts.” For 10 points, name these mental representations of the outside world theorized by Edward Tolman.
cognitive maps
7

83552-)
Jerome Bruner, a notable scholar of this man's work, wrote about the way that his theory of education proceeds in a dynamic way. One of this man's concepts is exemplified by the way that Mayan girls learn to weave through their mothers and their surrounding environment; that process relies on internalization and is called "cultural mediation." Another important concept to arise from this psychologist's work is his theory of the symbolic interactions of play. He analyzed the relationship between learning a language and cognitive development in his work Thought and Language. The upper limit of this man's most notable contribution is defined as the level of responsibility that a child can accept with assistance, while the lowest level is defined as the maximum that the child can accomplish on its own. For 10 points, identify this psychologist who coined the term "zone of proximal development," a Russian.
Lev Vygotsky
7

84941-)
This concept motivated the teleological side of its author’s model of human motivations. Though out of favor with sociologists, the concept used to be broadly applied, particularly to the British Commonwealth, as “cultural cringe.” As originally defined, one emerged from two separate feelings: a “secondary” compensatory desire for security would inflame a “primary” observation of personal weakness, leading to a vicious cycle common to neuroses. FTP, identify this driving force, a belief in one’s insufficiency, that was theorized by Alfred Adler.
inferiority complex
4

87806-)
Though not a composer, this man used whistles, metronomes, and tuning forks in his work. He won a Nobel prize in Medicine in 1904 for researching the digestive system, from which his most famous work stemmed. The term which he is most famous for introducing was actually a result of a mistranslation into English, which caught on when John B. Watson used it. He started the study of TMI, or transmarginal (*) inhibition, an organism's response to overwhelming stimuli, such as stress or pain, relating shutdown points to temperament. In his most famous experiment, he paired a CS with a US, ringing a bell whenever meat powder was present. FTP, name this psychologist known for conditioning dogs to salivate.
Ivan Petrovitch Pavlov
4

107187-)
One experiment associated with this phenomenon tested subjects' ability to pull on a rope and confirmed that the Ringelmann effect contributes to this phenomenon. Another experiment observing this phenomenon asked Columbia University students to complete a questionnaire while a room filled with smoke and was conducted by Darley and Latane. Pluralistic ignorance and diffusion of responsibility are causes of this phenomenon, which was cited to explain the apathy to Winston Moseley's murder of Kitty Genovese on a busy New York street. For 10 points, name this social phenomenon that observes that people are less likely to intervene during an emergency when more witnesses are present.
bystander effect [accept Ringelmann effect before mentioned]
3

130366-)
This sensation is modulated by receptors classified as delta, kappa, mu, or orphanin. The intensity of this sensation is determined in the insular and cingulate cortices. Ronald Melzack and Patrick Wall developed a "gate control" theory of this phenomenon. This sensation is triggered unusually often in (*) allodynia, and it's experienced more intensely in hyperalgesia. This sensation is caused by "noxious" stimuli. Wilhelm Erb wrongly theorized that this sensation results from any stimulus if it is intense enough. It is often transmitted with touch and temperature. The "slow" variety of this sensation is transmitted via C-­fibers, and it is triggered by free nerve endings. This sensation is transmitted via Substance P. For 10 points, name this sensation that is dulled by NSAIDs like ibuprofen and opiates like morphine.
pain [or nociception]
7

141719-)
Robert Jarvik’s wife, Marilyn vos Savant, has the highest recorded value for this specific metric according to the Guinness Book of World Records. Mensa is a group that was founded to cater to individuals with very high recorded values for this metric. The Wechsler test returns this type of numerical value, as does the (*) Stanford-Binet test. The median value for this quantity in the United States is one hundred, and it is normally distributed. This metric is often colloquially contrasted with the controversial EQ value. For 10 points, name this value that is thought by some to be a measure of general intelligence.
Intelligence Quotient [accept IQ; prompt on descriptive or partial answers such as intelligence] &lt;LT&gt;
4

146741-)
Raymond Cattell theorized this concept's crystallized and fluid forms. L. L. Thurstone's seven clusters, Robert Sternberg's triarchic theory, and Charles Spearman's general g-factor are all theories of this phenomenon. Howard Gardner proposed eight (*) "multiple" forms of this ability which included naturalist, bodily-kinesthetic, and spatial. The Stanford-Binet test measures this ability, while another measure of it compares two types of ages and is averaged at 100. Savants may have an exceptionally high number for, for 10 points, a namesake quotient measuring what concept of how smart someone is?
intelligence
3

146939-)
This man studied the mental maps of residents of New York and Paris. In one of this psychologist's breaching experiments, subway riders were asked to give up their seats and in another study, objects marked for the Friends of the Nazi Party were mailed with low frequency. This conductor of the (*) lost letter experiment used a mailing campaign to study the six degrees of separation in the Small World experiment, while in this psychologist's most famous experiment, experimenters said "you must go on" as actors faked pained noises and collapsing. For 10 points, what Yale psychologist conducted a namesake experiment in which most participants were willing to administer fatal electric shocks?
Stanley Milgram
3

153521-)
Description acceptable. Several of these concepts are classified as “Bartlebean” [“Bartleby”-an] in a 2005 book that analyzes Melville’s The Confidence-Man in its opening chapter on “Tone.” Before her work on postmodern aesthetic categories, Sianne Ngai wrote a book about “Ugly” concepts of this kind. This concept is described as “autonomous” in Brian Massumi’s Parables for the Virtual, which studies the body through movement, sensation, and this concept. These concepts are treated as an intersection of speech acts and embodied cultural practices in a 2004 book on their Cultural Politics by Sara (*) Ahmed. A 1983 book describes how people feel a “pinch” that causes them to mobilize these concepts in a kind of “gift exchange,” due to namesake social “rules” surrounding them. That book studies how flight attendants and bill collectors use these concepts on the job. Arlie Hochschild’s The Managed Heart analyzes—for 10 points—what kind of “labor?”
emotions [or affects; or feelings; accept Ugly Feelings; accept The Cultural Politics of Emotion; accept emotional labor; accept feeling rules] &lt;Other Academic&gt;
9

155371-)
A former researcher for this thinker, Jane Loevinger, developed the Washington University Sentence Completion Test to test a model based on his theories. This thinker’s concept of personal experimentation during a so-called “moratorium” inspired the work of J. J. Arnett. According to this thinker, individuals who work towards guiding the next generation experience a sense of “generativity,” as opposed to stagnation. James Marcia expanded upon a concept that this thinker argued emerges from a conflict between cohesion and role confusion and explored in works such as Childhood and Society and Young Man Luther. For 10 points, name this psychologist who theorized the existence of eight stages of psychosocial development and developed the idea of the “identity crisis.”
Erik Erikson
7

158081-)
External factors impacting this concept were studied by J. McVicker Hunt. Aspects of this concept were grouped into seven “clusters” by L.L. Thurstone. The “triarchic” theory of it proposed by Robert Sternberg simplifies Howard Gardner’s theory that there is no one “g-factor,” but rather (*) “multiple” versions of this concept. A popular way of measuring this concept is named for David Wechsler. Measures of this concept gradually rise in the Flynn effect. Social success is based on the “emotional” form of this concept. The Stanford–Binet test measures—for 10 points—what capacity’s namesake “quotient”?
intelligence [accept emotional intelligence or intelligence quotient; prompt on IQ] &lt;HK&gt;
4

