64486-)
Though it's not the capital asset pricing model, Lintner's model for the policy governing these entities invokes a target ratio for these and the time rate of change for these. It is not debt, but one ramification of the Modigliani Miller theorem states that under certain tax law, it is invariant for a corporation to issue these entities as opposed to repurchasing stock. One must hold an equity investment on the "record date" to receive this cash flow.
dividends
6

65904-)
The first use of this in a macro-economic model appears in the article "Investment Under Uncertainty," which uses the concept of an equilibrium of this type. Firms invest given a prior belief about the distribution of output prices, and given aggregate investment, the prior and posterior distributions of market prices are identical, or equivalently, the first moment of agents' forecast error is zero. Kydland and Prescott argued that due to this concept, discretionary monetary policy is never 'credible' and thus ineffective. This concept motivates a critique of macro-econometric models in the style of Katz and Tinbergen since in those models, agents don't change their behavior in response to policy changes. That critique is named after one of the authors of "Investment Under Uncertainty," Robert Lucas. For ten points, what is this economic concept, which caused an eponymous "revolution" in 1970s macroeconomics?
Rational Expectations
9

65992-)
This institution assumed its full powers on January 1, 1999 under the leadership of Wim Duisenberg, its first president. In May 2010, this institution suspended its minimum threshold for sovereign debt, which meant that junk bonds could be used as collateral to borrow from this institution. Axel Weber, who once said that what he likes best about his job is that he doesn't have to worry about people's welfare,
European Central Bank
9

68226-)
Both the Atkinson-Stiglitz Separability theorem and the Cortlett-Hague theorem relate this quantity for commodities to goods that are substitutable for leisure. The Lindahl form of this entity is employed in an equilibrium dependent on the personal marginal benefit of a public good. Christina and David Romer's recent study found the multiplier of a reduction in this entity to be roughly three. Ramsey developed an optimal set of rules based on the quantity demanded of each good to minimize total burden. Externalities can be limited by the Pigouvian type of them. Deadweight losses are caused by the imposition of, for 10 points, which financial charges collected by the government to finance the nation's budget?
taxes [do not accept more specific answers]
7

73227-)
One proof of it proved the strict neutrality lemma whereby all binary social rankings are made the same way; that proof was published by John Geankopolos. Two possible solutions to this paradox include finding some sort of commonality amongst individual preferences, or determining single-peakedness, if there is any; these solutions were advanced by Duncan Black. The theorem itself can be constructed under assumptions which include independence of irrelevant alternatives, monotonicity, and citizen sovereignty, the latter two of which may be substituted with an assumption of Pareto efficiency. For 10 points, name this eponymous economic theory that demonstrates the failure of voting systems based on individual preference to construct a social preference.
Arrow's Impossibility Theorem [or Arrow's paradox]
7

74858-)
Echoing Spencer's First Principles, this thinker posited that the "arbitrary choice of the Creator" was the rationale for the initial distribution of atoms in the first world. He introduced the "logical alphabet" and was criticized by Robertson and Boole for that work, The Principles of Science. He responded to "sentimental writers" who charged economics with being a "dismal science" by using iron in an illustration of the division of labor. This economist analyzed fluctuations of agricultural output caused by the title phenomena in "Commercial Crises and Sunspots," though he achieved more infamy for assuming that Irish workers would be too inebriated to work. He analyzed the relationship between demand and marginal utility in his magnum opus, Theory of Political Economy. For 10 points, identify this contemporary of Leon Walras and central figure in the marginalist revolution in economic thought.
William Stanley Jevons
9

76615-)
A formula to regulate them and minimize their range was proposed at the Tokyo Round Negotiations and is known as the Swiss formula.  This is similar to a method meant to lower them, known as the Uruguay Round Approach. Deadweight loss often occurs in small nations when these are enacted, which typically come in ad valorem and specific types. The Morrill one was enacted in 1861 while one passed during Herbert Hoover’s presidency led to “beggar thy neighbor” policies and would exacerbate the effects of the Great Depression. FTP, identify this government economic policy that includes ones named for Payne-Aldrich and Smoot-Hawley, that tax imported goods.
Tariff
3

76820-)
This approach was used by Albrecht and Axell to develop a model that assumes two types of sellers with different reservation prices. First-generation models in this approach suffered from the Rothschild Paradox that homogenous goods cannot be sold at different prices under equilibrium conditions. A major model used in this approach was devised to challenge Lucas' neutrality of money model, and exhibits several Pareto-ranked equilibria for output based on the "optimism" or "pessimism" of agents in the steady-state. Daron Acemoglu and Robert Shimer used this approach to prove that social insurance policies that reduce risk aversion can increase output. A major model used in this approach, which imagines an island where producers climb coconut trees they cannot consume before trading, won the 2010 Nobel Prize for Mortensen, Pissarides, and Diamond. For 10 points, name this framework often used to model the effect of frictions on the labor market by assuming costs for workers looking for jobs.
search and matching theory
8

78022-)
This Hebrew word denotes symbols such as a U in a circle, the seals of kosher certification organizations. A man of this name had one son who led the conservative Moderate Party, and a grandson who ranked highly in the Social Democratic Party. This man worked with another politican, the Liberal Party leader, to develop a theory, contradicted by the Leontief paradox, about whether a country exports capital- or labor- intensive goods. For 10 points, name this collaborator with Bertil Ohlin.
hechsher [or Eli Heckscher]
8

78191-)
According to Forbes, the largest institution dedicated to it is the ASA. A Yale Journal of Economics paper used direct mailing regarding this to determine the value of advertising content.  Amartya Sen's main critique of Manmohan (*) Singh's economic reforms was a lack of government support for this. 2005 was declared the year of this by the UN's Economic and Social council. A major US source of them is Kiva. Given by the Grameen bank of Muhammed Yunnus, for 10 points, name this type of small-scale funding for the impoverished,
microcredit or microloans
8

78303-)
It mainly works to meet its targets via open market operations at its New York site, which usually involves buying and selling securities.  Over the past few months, it has greatly expanded its balance sheet, taking on commercial paper and opening its discount window.  Consisting of 12 branches throughout the country, its chairman has stated that it might use a helicopter, if it had to, to keep credit flowing.  For ten points, name this quasi-Federal institution charged by Congress with managing the money supply, chaired by Ben Bernacke.
Federal Reserve Bank of the United States
6

78400-)
It has led a number of institutions to reconfigure themselves as bank holding companies, including Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs, and GMAC. Originally devised as an asset purchase program, its focus shifted to taking capital stakes in the institutions it is meant to help, and eventually, to consumer loans, after criticism that it is not helping unthaw the credit markets.
Troubled Asset Relief Program (lets take the bailout)
6

88487-)
One of the first recognized implementations of this policy came with an organization founded by Al Whittaker and David Bussau, and according to an article in The Economist, its first beneficiary was Carlos Moreno in 1974. Projects like Zopa's and Prosper seek to extend this basic idea to private action in developed nations. A summit dedicated to its furtherance was convened in 1997, and a second last November in Halifax. A development that won Muhammad Yunus and Grameen Bank a Nobel Peace Prize in 2006, FTP, give the term used to describe this idea of extending very small loans to particularly the poor and unemployed.
microcredit (or microloans or microfinance)
7

92223-)
By Okun's Law, a one percent increase in this concept leads to a two percent loss in GDP. The Phillips Curve depicts an inverse relationship between inflation and this concept, whose types include structural and frictional. Most measurements of it do not include homemakers and students, and some do not account for discouraged workers. For 10 points, what is the term for when people who want to work cannot find jobs?
unemployment [or word forms such as unemployed; or unemployment rate]
1

101241-)
Mechanisms can be characterized as having ex-ante, interim, or ex-post individual forms of thisproperty. The weak axiom of revealed preference is a consequence of assuming this type ofpreference relation, which is defined to be complete and transitive. A good whose current utilitydepends upon past consumption was modeled in a paper about this type of addiction by KevinMurphy and Gary (*) Becker. A common modeling assumption states that an individual's forecasts are equalto the expectation conditional on present information, which is a hypothesis named for this type of"expectations." For 10 points, game theory typically assumes what type of utility-maximizing behavior inwhich people act reasonably?
rational [or rationality; or word forms]
7

104898-)
In the late 1970s, the "wild card option" was often used to settle futures contracts of these entities, which also uses the difference between the implied and actual repo rates drive the notion of "cheapest to deliver" for settling its futures contracts. Pension fund demand resulted in re-issuance of longer-dated ones in 2006, while TIPS are those which are tied to CPI. Regularly scheduled auctions replace the current "on-the-run" versions and supply the market with these semi-annually coupon-bearing entities, and the simultaneous purchase of long-dated and sale of shorter-dated ones in 2011 has been dubbed "Operation Twist." Generally regarded as risk-free assets, for 10 points, name these financial instruments that represent the debt of the United States government.
Treasuries [or Treasury securities; or Treasury notes; or Treasury bonds; or Treasury bill; or anything that mentions the word Treasury; prompt on "bond" or "note bill"; accept US bonds or US government bonds before mentioned]
8

112388-)
This thinker wrote that Jews flourished in science because living within Christian societies made them more skeptical of established ideas in his essay "The Intellectual Preeminence of Jews in Modern Europe." This thinker argued that ownership began when warriors in primitive societies started habitually seizing female captives in essays such as "The Beginnings of Ownership." He wrote that the relative lateness of Germany's industrialization enabled it to borrow knowledge from Britain without being hampered by existing obsolete infrastructure, an example of what he called "penalty of taking the lead." This economist argued that business leaders keep prices artificially high by sabotaging production, in contrast to industrial workers such as engineers motivated by the "instinct of workmanship." He pioneered institutional economics in books such as Imperial Germany and the Industrial Revolution and The Theory of Business Enterprise. For 10 points, name this American economist who coined the phrase "conspicuous consumption" in his book The Theory of the Leisure Class.
Thorstein Bunde Veblen
8

144566-)
The rate of this process, plus one, is in the numerator of the discount factor.  According to the time derivative of the equation of exchange, the rate of this process is proportional to the time derivative of M, times V over Q. A nominal measurement is converted to a real measurement by accounting for this process. This process is tracked by considering a (*) basket of goods relative to the base year. This phenomenon was coupled with stagnation during the 70s oil crisis. In December 2015, the Fed raised interest rates to prevent this process, which results if the money supply increases. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which prices go up.
inflation [or deflation]
3

144581-)
This thinker compared a working-class person to an Indian prince at the head of “1000 naked savages.” This man’s namesake problem is to reconcile his virtue ethics with his political philosophy. This man contrasted value-in-use and value-in-exchange to explain why diamonds are more expensive than water. He dismantled Colbert’s [COLE-bears] (*) mercantilism in a book which argues that, by attempting to further his own needs, a man improves society as a whole because of an “invisible hand.” He used a pin factory to argue for division of labor in that proto-capitalist text. For 10 points, name this Scottish author of The Wealth of Nations.
Adam Smith
3

147116-)
The fact that the short-term form of this quantity cannot fall below zero is known as the ZLB or zero lower bound problem. A linear approximation usually written as i approximately equals r plus pi relates the real and nominal forms of this quantity and is known as the Fisher equation. The LIBOR is an average of several of these quantities that, in another context, can be measured in basis points. A simple rule of thumb holds that, if one knows this quantity, one can (*) divide 72 by its value to calculate the doubling period. Banks with low reserves may apply to the Fed to receive the “discount” form of this quantity, which is charged at the “federal funds” level between banks. For 10 points, name this rate that may be computed in a “simple” or “compound” fashion, which denotes how much a lender charges a borrower.
interest rates [prompt on “rate of return” or “return (on investment)” or equivalents if the answerer appears to be a bank or creditor]
6

149144-)
Mohamed el-Erian recently proposed a re-evaluation of this organization’s “Special Drawing Right.” In December 2016, this organization’s current head became the third in a row to be a convicted criminal after being found guilty for negligence handling a sportswear company’s deals; that leader of this organization withdrew from an invitation to speak at the 2014 commencement of Smith College. This organization is traditionally headed by a (*) European, such as Rodrigo Rato, unlike a counterpart that is usually headed by an American and also provides “structural adjustment” packages. Its creation was proposed at the Bretton Woods conference, and it was formerly headed by Dominique Strauss-Kahn. For 10 points, Christine Lagarde heads what sister organization of the World Bank?
IMF [or International Monetary Fund] &lt;WA, Other&gt;
6

155744-)
Stephen Pacala and Robert Socolow proposed fifteen “stabilization wedges” to respond to this phenomenon. Bill Nordhaus criticized the low discount rates in the assessment of this phenomenon’s effect on the economy in the Stern Review. Hsiang (shyong), Burke, and Miguel have found evidence that this phenomenon increases rates of human conflict. Responses to this problem are often divided into adaptation and mitigation. This problem cannot be addressed by neoliberal capitalism, according to Naomi Klein’s This Changes Everything. The 2007 Nobel Peace Prize went to an intergovernmental panel that produced several reports on this problem. Rising carbon dioxide levels cause, for 10 points, what problem that is causing polar ice caps to melt?
global climate change [or global warming] &lt;The above question is for the category Social Science Economics and was written by Shan Kothari&gt;
7

157966-)
A book titled for this concept argues that inequality arises when income deriving from this concept outstrips long-term economic growth. One component of the Mundell–Fleming model’s “impossible trinity” is the free movement of this concept. A surprise best-seller of 2013 was Thomas Piketty’s book on this concept In the Twenty-First Century. Gary Becker helped popularize a type of this concept that includes social (*) skills and technical knowledge—that’s this concept’s “human” type. This concept, land, and labor are the main factors of production. For 10 points, name this term for assets like money that can be invested to produce more assets.
capital [accept human capital; prompt on assets until mentioned] &lt;AF&gt;
4

157990-)
This man called for education vouchers and a volunteer military in a 1962 book. That book by this man attacks both the Bretton Woods system and medical licensing. This man built on the work of Franco Modigliani in his studies of the consumption function. With Edmund Phelps, he developed the idea of a (*) natural rate of unemployment. This man proposed a negative income tax and thought that the money supply should grow by a fixed percentage each year. He emphasized monetary policy’s role in causing the Great Depression in A Monetary History of the United States. Capitalism and Freedom is by—for 10 points—what Chicago School economist who founded monetarism?
Milton Friedman &lt;BY&gt;
4

158232-)
A 1905 book titled for this system used a method of “Verstehen” [“fair”-SHTAY-en] to understand a series of “ideal types.” That book titled for this system ties its development to progressive “disenchantment,” creating what Talcott Parsons translated as the “iron cage” of rationality. The social effects of this system were explored in the “Paris Manuscripts” and the Grundrisse. The doctrine of (*) predestination and other aspects of the Protestant Ethic were linked to the “Spirit” of this system by Max Weber. A 1776 book described its inadvertent benefits as the result of an “invisible hand.” For 10 points, name this economic system described in Adam Smith’s The Wealth of Nations.
capitalism [accept The Protestant Ethic and the “Spirit” of Capitalism; accept Die protestantische Ethik und der Geist des Kapitalismus] &lt;JR&gt;
4

161147-)
A 1995 paper by Berry, Levinsohn, and Pakes uses random coefficients to perform this technique while avoiding the “independence of irrelevant alternatives.” One method for performing this action was first applied to mass transit in the Bay Area, and assumes that personal idiosyncrasies follow an extreme value distribution. The “characteristics approach” for performing this action treats goods as bundles of properties in order to get around the problem of finding an unwieldy (*) substitution matrix. Philip and Sewall Wright were among the first people to recognize the simultaneity problem in performing this technique, which they got around by inventing instrumental variables. Failing to recognize price endogeneity can cause this technique to give implausible results like curves that slope upward. For 10 points, name this technique for finding out how much people are willing to buy at a particular price.
demand estimation [or supply and demand estimation; do not accept only “supply estimation;” prompt on discrete choice estimation or discrete choice modeling before “Wright”] &lt;SB&gt;
8

162597-)
Saez ("sighs"), Slemrod and Giertz conducted research on one form of this quantity with respect to marginal tax rates and suggested alternate parameters to estimate when that form of this quantity is not a sufficient statistic. Given a constant marginal utility of wealth, an estimate of one version of this quantity can be calculated in a method named for Frisch. Often seen while estimating the determinants of the wage rate, taking the (*) log-log transformation allows the coefficients to be interpreted as these quantities. The midpoint method can be used to estimate this quantity that is higher for goods with fewer substitutes. A good is said to be perfectly this quantity if the price version of this quantity is equal to 1. For 10 points, identify this quantity, whose price version is usually the percentage change in quantity divided by the percentage change in price.
elasticity or elastic [accept any of elasticity of taxable income, demand elasticity, labor supply elasticity, income elasticity, price elasticity; prompt on "percent change in quantity divided by percent change in price" or "log Q divided by log P" before mention]
7

