73830-)
This thinker describes as "useful inefficiencies" the tendency of politicians to shelter interest groups from globalization. He claims in one work that the attraction of hard currency is too great for all but the most resolute despots to ignore, and cites the example of European indecisiveness in Yugoslavia to explain why there must be a power broadly acceptable to as a leader. This man co-developed the concept of "complex interdependence" in Power and Interdependence and he attacks foreign policy decisions that promote arrogance, unilateralism, and parochialism in his book Paradox of American Power. His most important theory suggests that the ability of a polity to attract others is through the legitimacy of its policies and the values that underlie them. For 10 points, name this co-founder, along with Robert Keohane, of neoliberalism and proponent of soft power.
Joseph S. Nye Jr.
7

88372-)
The common-law conception of this legal term is analogous to the French delict or quasi-delict. Dignitary and economic ones include alienation of affections, conspiracy, and abuse of process; property ones include detinue, replevin, trover, and conversion. Defenses to intentional ones include consent and necessity; they may also be crimes as in the case of assault, battery, wrongful death, and fraud, while libel and slander used to be crimes but are now only these. Responsible for the brunt of civil litigation, FTP, name this legal concept, an intentional or accidental wrong or wrongful act by which injury occurs to another, from the Latin for twisted.
torts
7

88385-)
During the 2004 Presidential election, he was seen as the most likely pick for John Kerry's National Security Advisor. One of his early works, a collaboration with Robert Keohane, championed the idea that international relations cannot be analyzed on a state to state basis, an idea called complex interdependence.  In later works, he argues that the US must maintain its hegemony not by military might or economic incentives as in the neorealist view, but by diplomacy and noncoercive means, or "soft power."  The author of Power and Interdependence and The Paradox of American Power
Joseph S. Nye, Jr.
7

