66534-)
In a work about “the other side” of this place, Luke Eric Lassiter argued that the lack of African Americans in it could be seen as a metaphor for the invisibility of African Americans before the Civil-Rights era.  One work about this place explored the “Pattern of Business-Class Control” of the X Family and concluded with a lengthy list of the title place’s values and contradictory values, its namesake (*) “Spirit”.  The first book on this place outlines six interactions people have with it, including “training the young” and “making a home.”  Against the suggestion of Robert Park, this place was chosen for its homogeneous population of white Anglo-Saxons, and life here in 1890 was contrasted with conditions in 1925.  For 10 points, name this place studied by Robert and Helen Lynd, in actuality Muncie, Indiana.
Middletown [prompt on "Muncie, Indiana" before mentioned]
7

72947-)
This man contributed the forward to Reo Fortune's Sorcerers of Dobu.  Mauss criticized this thinker for ignoring the mapula, an error this man admitted in a work which discusses the "theory of primitive communism".  Another of his works showed how communities founded on "mother-right" did not experience the the Oedipus complex. In addition to writing works discussing both Crime and Custom, as well as Sex and Repression, "in Savage Society", he conducted "participant observation" in the Oaxaca valley of Mexico and the kula ring between Trobiand islanders.  For 10 points, name this Polish functionalist anthropologist, the author of Coral Gardens and their Magic as well as Argonauts of the Western Pacific.
Bronislaw Kasper Malinowski
7

73051-)
This work discusses the division of humanity into "Chosen People" and "Dangerous Aliens" in its chapter on "The Science of Custom,", and its third section cites Spengler's Decline of the West and claims that Western culture is "too intricate for study".  It rationalizes the "lawless and treacherous" nature of one group which lives off the coast of New Guinea, and adopts Nietzsche's constructs of the Apollonian and Dionysian for the other two studied societies, which are judged only by their own values.  Contrasting the Dobu, Pueblo, and Kwakiutls, for 10 points, name this work which advanced the idea of cultural relativism by Ruth Benedict.
Patterns of Culture
7

125797-)
One researcher on these peoples, Gary Haynes, has found evidence that the inhabitants of the Buttermilk Creek complex predates them. Tom Dillehay excavated another culture that is also thought to predate this one after a grad student found a mastodon bone at MV-I. In 1968, a construction worker found the well-preserved Anzick Boy, which was later confirmed to be a former member of this culture. These peoples would have to be from the Old World if the widely discredited Solutrean Hypothesis were to be accepted. The "Dryas overhunting" (*) hypothesis may explain their disappearance, since they may have hunted the wooly mammoth to extinction. The Folsom peoples are descendants of this other culture, whose best preserved artifacts are characteristically fluted arrowheads. For 10 points, name this pre-historic Indian culture whose tools have been found in New Mexico, and who are thought to be the precursors to all indigenous Native Americans.
Clovis culture
9

149182-)
A 2016 paper by Heyes et al. suggests that the presence of manganese dioxide at Pech-de-l’Azé may mean that it was used in the production of this technology, whose competitive advantage is discussed in a 2009 popular book by Richard Wrangham [“RANG”-um]. The oldest known evidence of this technology was found in Wonderwerk [VAWN-dehr-vairk] Cave in South Africa. This technology was used in processing silcrete, making it easier to flake. The development of this technology is believed to have extended the waking portion of the human Circadian rhythm to its current 16 hours. It was used to (*) harden weapons like the Lehringen Spear. Percussive and friction methods of creating this technology are represented by bow drills and striking flint with metal. For 10 points, what is this technology used to cook food?
(human control of) fire [or similar answers such as flames; prompt on heat] &lt;AF, SocSci&gt;
6

162900-)
A material culture named for these objects made sickle-shaped marks that are interpreted as numerals, was succeeded by the Halstatt (“HALL-shtott”) culture, and thrived in Central Europe until the mid-8th century BC. Romans placed these objects in niches inside of buildings whose name comes from the Latin word for “dove.” They’re not for holding wine or oil, but the elaborate Derveni krater was used as one of these objects. The use of lekythoi and (*) amphorae as cinerary (“SIN-er-AIR-ee”) examples of these objects declined as inhumation became more common. The mid-17th-century discovery of several of these objects in Norfolk inspired an essay by Sir Thomas Browne. These objects, which are common grave goods, are displayed in a columbarium. For 10 points, identify these vessels that hold funerary ashes.
urns [accept burial urns; prompt on vases or pottery or amphorae or krater or jars; accept Urnfield Culture or Hydriotaphia, Urn Burial; prompt on busts by asking “what is the bust placed alongside in the niche?”] (The word for “dove” is columba, so columbarium means “dovecote.”) &lt;Archaeology, WA&gt;
7

