66394-)
British historian Robert Irwin criticizes this thinker's thesis in the book For Lust of Knowing, while George Landow directly attacked this man's scholarship. Justus Weiner has accused this man of falsifying his autobiography to better effect a "subaltern." He defended Barenboim's performance of Wagner in Israel in the article "Better to Know." Along with Cedric Watts, this thinker disagreed with Chinua (*) Achebe's characterization of Joseph Conrad as a terrible racist. And the most famous work by this thinker quote Victor Hugo's poem "Lui" to support the thesis that all Arabs are seen either as oil suppliers or terrorists. For 10 points, name this Palestinian-American postcolonialist who wrote Culture And Imperialism and Orientalism.
Edward Said
7

70972-)
One work of this title argues for the reduction in white collar jobs and the removal of women from the workplace in order to recreate the nuclear family of the past. Another section of that work introduces a society that is neither free of nastiness nor "inherently militarist" called the the practopia. That work of this title contains an addendum called "War and Anti-War" that discusses violations of the "Zone of Peace" concept. The title society of that work arises in succession to the previous Neolithic and Industrial Revolutions. Another work of this title claims that (*) the Vatican II reforms of the Catholic Church and economic growth are two of the five "independent variables" that have caused the recent development of non-totalitarian governments. For 10 points, identify this title that names both the first follow-up to Alvin Toffler's Future Shock and a work about the recent boom in democratization by Samuel Huntington.
The Third Wave
9

74500-)
Ulric Neisser led a task force studying the controversial claims of this work, subtitling his report "Knowns and Unknowns." The first appendix in this work is called "Statistics for People Who are Sure They Can't Learn Statistics," providing a discussion of the regression analysis on socioeconomic status put forth in its section "Cognitive Classes and Social Behavior." In a discussion about the "eugenic interlude" after World War II in the United States, this work's author attack the ideas of James Flynn, suggesting the apparent rise in (*) test scores is ill-defined. Stephen Jay Gould's The Mismeasure of Man was revised to address the claims of this work as applied to race. For 10 points, identify this book by Richard Herrnstein and Charles Murray the mass function of the intelligence of the human race may be modeled by the titular shape.
The Bell Curve
7

78126-)
The 1979 documentary Town Bloody Hall depicts the 1971 New York debate between Norman Mailer and this writer. Her 2007 biography Anne Hathaway was called Shakespeare's Wife, while her Whitefella Jump Up advocates that all native-born (*) Australians consider themselves Aborigines. She questioned male participation in feminism in The Whole Woman, thirty years after claiming that a passive sexual role is evidence of patriarchy and sexlessness. For 10 points, name this author of The Female Eunuch.
Germaine Greer
8

84516-)
The introduction to this book argues that there is "no contrast" between the theories of elementary ideas, original community, and migration, and asserts that all preceding studies of the same subject projected the human psyche onto the processes of nature. Its third section notes that the title concept is "preceded by difficulties, such as continence, or prolonged barrenness, or secret intercourse of the parents." Its second section compares Jesus Christ with Zoroaster in between discussions of Hercules and Sigfried, and begins by describing Akki the water carrier's rescue of Sargon. This book argues that the essentials of the title concept are descent from noble parents and being exposed to a river in a box, before analyzing the stories of its second section, "The Circle of Myths." FTP, name this book which psychoanalyzes the ? origins of legendary figures, a work by Otto Rank.
The Myth of the Birth of the Hero [or Der Mythus von der Geburt des Helden] (4)
9

84568-)
This measurement was first proposed in 1972 as a yardstick for the Middle Path of Development. The Tala project, which generates hydroelectric power via run-of-the-river methods, exemplifies its conservation and environmental concerns. The promotion of Buddhism and traditional dress are among cultural preservation efforts made to further this initiative. Voters chose the "Thunder Dragon" party in a recent mock election designed to educate the populace about democracy, which is meant to contribute toward its equitable socio-economic development pillar. King Jigme Singye Wangchuck voluntarily released certain controls in order to further, FTP, what wacky ? Bhutanese development statistic introduced to critique GNP?
Gross National Happiness (2)
9

88728-)
This thinker's 1966 work looks at its titular phenomenon in "Coral Fish in the Laboratory" and in "Rats," before declaring "Ecce Homo!" in chapter thirteen. Conducting A Search for a Natural History of Human Knowledge in 1973's Behind the Mirror, a late work of this writer examined The Foundations of the discipline he founded. The monumental The Natural Science of the Human Species is a recent posthumous publication of his, but better known are King Solomon's Ring and the aforementioned On Aggression. FTP, name this ethologist perhaps most famous for discovering imprinting by training some ducklings to follow him around; the winner of the 1973 Medicine Nobel with Tinbergen and von Frisch, a fellow Austrian.
Konrad Lorenz
7

94856-)
A history of these entities is discussed in Mind Children and other books by Hans Moravec. An article by Marvin Minsky asks if they will inherit the earth. The first theoretical description of one was given in a book by Julien La Mettrie, who described their composition. An article in Energy compares a statue made by a woodcarver to these entities and suggests that the presence of movement in them increases (*) uneasiness more so than death. That article by Masahiro Mori compares these agents to a bunraku puppet in relation to human affinity. The fear of them is the Frankenstein complex, and their resemblance to humanity inspired the uncanny valley hypothesis. For 10 points, name these machines which are subject to three laws postulated by Isaac Asimov.
robots [or androids, prompt on "A.I" or "Artificial life," if they mention "man made of machines" or other such equivalents, accept it.]
7

96970-)
Defendants in this area of the law can claim immunity under the Noer-Pennington doctrine if their actions are political in nature. A largely discredited offensive doctrine used in this realm is the "essential facilities doctrine." Cases in this area often hinge on whether courts find the defendant per se liable or use the much more intensive Rule of Reason. Metrics used in this area of law include the SSNIP and the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index. "Tying" is an example of a Section 1 case in this field, while Section 2 cases require a showing of market power. Mergers may be squashed under this area of this law if they violate the Clayton Act. For 10 points, name this area of the law which is governed in the U.S. by the Sherman Act and which seeks to prevent monopolistic anticompetitive behavior.
antitrust law [prompt on "monopoly law"]
7

104291-)
One important case in which this status was found not to apply was Original Appalachian Artworksv. Topps Chewing Gum. Generally, disclaimers and acknowledgement do not enhance this status. Ithas been deemed an affirmative defense ever since 1994's Campbell v. Acuff-Rose, a case involving a(*) 2 Live Crew song. As set out in section 107 of title 17 of the U.S. Code, the four factors that determinewhether this status applies are effect upon market value, the nature of the original source, whethercommercial value is being sought, and the amount used. For 10 points, identify this status which can applywhen parodists, researchers, or others republish some amount of a copyrighted work.
fair use
8

