60104-)
Korean has a three-way distinction of this feature, as illustrated by the minimal triplet of words meaning "moon," "daughter," and "mask." Chin-Wu Kim was the first to suggest that the length of this feature is correlated with the width of the glottis opening. A version of it, which accompanies the closure of a consonant occurs in North Germanic languages such as Icelandic. In Ancient Greek and Sanskrit, this feature is lost in its first occurrence in words, which have two consonants with this feature in adjacent syllables, a process known as Grassmann's law. In English, voiceless stops have this feature at the beginning of stressed syllables, but typically not after [s]. It is indicated by a positive voice onset time, and in the IPA, it is represented by a superscript h. For 10 points, name this puff of air which is released along with English consonants such as [p], [t], and [k].
aspiration
8

63458-)
In French, the third person singular ending in this construction is "e" and the first person plural is "ions." French forms this construction by adding "que" before the pronoun, dropping the "ent" from the third person plural "ils" present tense form, and then adding set endings. It is rarely seen in English, but survives in constructions such as "If I were to tell you." For 10 points, identify this mood which expresses a hypothetical or wishful state, as opposed to the indicative mood.
subjunctive mood [or conjunctive mood]
3

64169-)
When expressing this English word, Urdu speakers use the word "pathar," and Russians say "kamen." It is also the meaning of the French name "Pierre" and the Latin word "lapis." One Greek word for this lends its name to an ancient city in Jordan built entirely from this material. Over a hundred English words incorporate the root "lith," from another Greek word for this English term, including the words "paleolithic" and "neolithic," designating the two halves of its namesake "age." For 10 points, what is this English word, that is also the meaning of the German surname "Stein" and can designate the pit of a fruit or a material worked by masons?
stone [or rock; or word forms of either]
3

66908-)
One of these languages marks yes/no questions with the particle li. Forbidding consonant clusters resulted from the loss of the letter yer in this language group, which underwent a series of three Palatalizations. A medieval language in this group's southern branch was written in the Glagolitic alphabet and known as its "Old Church" type. These languages had a heavy influence on nearby Romanian. For 10 points, name this group of languages sometimes connected to neighboring Baltic languages like Latvian and Lithuanian, many of which are written with Cyrillic and which include Macedonian, Serbian, Czech, and Russian.
Slavic languages [or Slavonic languages; accept Balto-Slavic languages"; accept South Slavic languages until "southern"]
6

70499-)
Swati employs one form of this feature on a noun prefix syllable to express the copula; that form of this feature can take the form of glottal friction and appears in Icelandic and Faroese after stressed vowels but before plosives. Words in Ancient Greek and Sanskrit with two consecutive consonants with this feature lost the first example. This feature, when voiced, is depicted in IPA with two subscripted dots and is called "murmur," and labial, dental, and velar stops with this feature became voiced in Proto-Germanic. For 10 points, name this feature depicted as a superscript h in IPA, the release of air following an obstruent.
aspiration
9

71223-)
The use of difference in these entities to create meaning in Proto-Indo-European is called ablaut. "Clusters" lack them, and one follows a cluster and a glide in units characterized by Sievers' law. If one of them follows the second aspirate in a word, the first aspirate is lost by Grassman's law. "Strident" ones are characterized by an epiglottal trill. "Rhotic" ones occur when they follow the letter "R." The "gliding" variety of them occurs when they change quality during pronunciation, in which case they are called diphthongs. For 10 points, name these sounds that underwent a "great shift" in English, where examples of them include "A," "E," and sometimes "Y."
vowels
6

73152-)
The first epic poem written in this language is Il Gifen-Tork, and the title of the first novel in this language translates to Elvira, or the Love of a Tyrant. After Athanasius Kircher visited the area where it is most widely spoken, he offered evidence against the then-prevailing theory that it was descended from ancient Punic. The first known document written in this language is the fifteenth-century poem Il Cantilena by Pietru Caxaro. Like many other languages in its family, such as Amharic, most of its words have triliteral roots, meaning that they consist of three consonants. However, it is unique among its language family in that it uses the Latin alphabet. For 10 points, name this Semitic language now known to be descended from Siculo-Arabic, the official language of a tiny island nation in the Mediterranean Sea.
Maltese
7

75172-)
Evidence of female literacy in this language is contained in such corpora as the Wooing Group and the Katherine Group. The merging of dialects in this language caused the loss of distinction between the present participle and the gerund, while the lengthening of first-syllable vowels in words composed of two short syllables led to the muting of final "e." This language's writing system included an all-purpose character for velar sounds, which resembles a cursive "z" and is called "yogh." This language existed for most of its lifespan alongside (*) French and Latin, and became the sole tongue during the transition to its successor, the "Early Modern" phase. Perhaps the most well-known text in this language begins "Whan that Aprill, with his shoures soote." For 10 points, identify this language, which flourished from around 1070 to 1500 in the British Isles.
Middle English [do not accept or prompt on "Old English" or "English"]
9

144200-)
Rotokas is often thought to have the smallest number of these, although Pirahã may have fewer. If two of these objects exclusively appear in different environments, they are said to be in complementary distribution. The contrast between these objects can vanish in neutralization. Two of these objects are in free variation if choosing one or the other does not alter (*) meaning. Minimal pairs are words which only differ by one of these units. These units differ in regular patterns as allophones of a single sound. For 10 points, name these smallest linguistic units of sound that can bring about a change in meaning.
phonemes [prompt on “sounds” until read] &lt;SR Social Science&gt;
4

151808-)
Austronesian languages like Sursurunga have a variant of this property called the paucal. This property is often created using what Hockettians call “the morpheme [this property],” but which Bloomfieldians name after a specific letter. In Korean, this property can be emphasized with the addition of the suffix -deul [“rhymes with pull”]. An experiment by Jean Gleason used pictures of small blue bird-like creatures to show that children generalize rules concerning this property; that is the wug test. Some languages have both “massive” and (*) “numerative” forms of this property. When applying this property to compound nouns in English, the first word is typically inflected and the second left unchanged. In Hebrew, masculine nouns are given this property by adding the suffix -im [“eem”]. For 10 points, name this property that in English is usually created by adding “s” to the end of nouns.
plurality [or grammatical number; or quantity; accept word forms like pluralization or being plural or descriptive answers like there’s more than one; accept singular until “morpheme” is read] &lt;JK Social Science&gt;
6

158030-)
Perceiving this phenomenon has surprisingly been shown to activate the primary visual cortex in congenitally blind patients. A controversial evolutionary account of human use of this phenomenon was published in 1994 by Steven Pinker. Processing of this phenomenon is usually severely impaired in patients who’ve had their left hemisphere removed. A feral child named Genie never developed the ability to (*) use it, suggesting a “critical window” for its acquisition. This phenomenon determines thought patterns, according to the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis. Damage to Wernicke’s and Broca’s areas can cause “aphasia,” an inability to use—for 10 points—what kind of communication?
language [accept words or speech; accept verbal communication; accept The Language Instinct] &lt;HK&gt;
4

159260-)
A language from this country does not follow the “immediacy of experience principle,” according to a “reassessment” of it by Nevins, Pesetsky, and Rodrigues (“rod-REE-gez”). Many dialects of this country’s most common language feature L-vocalization and palatalization of the stops “t” and “d” into affricates (“AFF-ruh-kits”) before a high front vowel. A scholar who wrote about a language in this country in the book Don’t Sleep, There Are Snakes claims that its apparent lack of recursion is evidence against Chomsky’s universal grammar; that linguist is Daniel Everett. Unlike its European counterpart, many dialects of the most common language in this country, such as carioca (“kah-ree-OH-kah”) and paulista (“pow-LEECE-tah”), replace the informal second-person “tu” with the formal “você” (“vo-SAY”). For 10 points, name this country home to the tribal language of Pirahã (“PEE-ruh-hah”) and the majority of the world’s speakers of Portuguese.
Brazil [or Federative Republic of Brazil; or República Federativa do Brasil] &lt;Social Science&gt;
7

162588-)
In x-bar theory, one category of words denoted by this letter can be question and tense-positive or negative. This letter also denotes the type of selection in which affixes select the category of the morpheme they are affixed to. This letter denotes a category of words such as "that" and "whether" in syntactic theory. This letter is used to denote a “j” sound in the Turkish alphabet. This is the alphabetically prior letter whose pronunciation is affected by the Habsburg (*) lisp in Spanish. In archaic Spanish and modern French, the cedilla diacritic can be applied to this letter. In Pinyin, this letter is pronounced as "ts", and it's not "g", but this letter evolved from the Phoenician and Greek letters gimel and gamma. For 10 points, name this letter that can stand for "complementizer" or "category" in syntax.
C [accept Complementizer, COMP, CP, c-selection]
7

