65910-)
Two characters in this game go to the world’s first operational space launch center to assassinate Nazis seeking refuge in the Soviet Union, resulting in the capture of the protagonist’s partner and the loss of that partner’s left eye. Its multiplayer mode removed the ability of kill streaks to stack, and replaced the Stinger anti-air missile with the Strela-2. Powerups the player can use in this game include a  SR-71 Blackbird that reveals the direction opponents are facing. At the conclusion of this game’s single player mode, the main character is revealed to be a Soviet sleeper agent who intends to release the nerve agent Nova-6 into the United States, and he is hinted by the game to be the man who assassinated John F. Kennedy. For ten points, name this game that features Alex Mason as part of the titular Special Activities Division by Treyarch, the seventh entry in the Call of Duty series.
Call of Duty: Black Ops (prompt on partial title)
9

70458-)
Books by this character include Now We Are Alone, The Feedback Principle, and For I have Tasted the Fruit. This character refuses to let the UN Security council search his private residence for evidence of weapons based on Retroviral Engineering. This character is depicted wearing glasses with one green lens and one red lens, and he is first heard explaining that the universe regresses infinitely towards smaller and smaller units. This figure starts out with a free network node in every one of his bases, which include Zoloty Gold and Akademgorodok and are white-colored. For ten points, name this unethical Russian scientist, the leader of the University faction in Sid Meier's Alpha Centauri.
Provost Zakharov [accept: Prokhor Zahkarov; Academician Zakharov]
9

71139-)
By leaping from a bridge, an astute player of this game can pass through a false wall and find a room with a plinth on which sits chocolate egg reading "Happy Easter". One of the earliest quests in this game sees the protagonist acquire a cell phone after chasing down a chef. One quest line in this game opens by assigning the player to pick up a V.I.P. from Starfish Island using a Kaufman Cab, while another pits Los Cabrones against a gang led by Auntie Poulet. By far the worst section of this game consists of a race against Hilary King, who joins the protagonist, Cam Jones, and (*) Phil Cassidy in an assault on "El Banco Corrupto Grande". Its final mission, "Keep Your Friends Close...", sees the player defend the protagonist's mansion from the combined assault of Sonny Forelli and Lance Vance, the latter of whom stars in this game's PSP prequel. For 10 points, identify this Rockstar video game, a 1980s pastiche starring Tommy Vercetti released one year after Grand Theft Auto III.
Grand Theft Auto: Vice City [accept GTA: Vice City; prompt on "Grand Theft Auto" or "GTA"]
9

110862-)
A famous player of this game has a pillow with a sharpie smiley face on it named Mr. Pillow. Unlike its spiritual predecessor, players of this game cannot "deny" by attacking friendly NPCs. A character in this game often says "Mix, mix, swirl, mix." Candy corn replaces this game's health potion during The Harrowing each October. A joke character in this game is the manatee Urf. Elementz' tier list was made for this game, whose maps include the Crystal Scar and the Twisted Treeline. Players control Irelia, Ezreal, Teemo, and other champions. For 10 points, name this massively online battle arena game based on DoTA ("DOE-tuh") and created by Riot Games.
League of Legends
4

113797-)
A popular activity in this game is spleefing. Patches to this game frequently "remove Herobrine" ["HAIR"-oh-brinn], a ghost rumored to be Notch's dead brother. Players in this game create (*) Nether Portals with obsidian and use redstone to make powered rails. Zombies and creepers spawn at night in this game, threatening the only playable character, Steve. For 10 points, name this Mojang sandbox game featuring one cubic meter blocks.
Minecraft
2

139865-)
A prone-to-breaking component of this system was patented as the zero insertion force mechanism.  The Rabbit Chip was developed to circumvent an encryption program on this system after the encryption source code was swindled from the Library of Congress.  Its manufacturer physically removed 5 transistors from its MOS 6502 chip to avoid having to pay a licensing fee.  Copyright protection on this system could be circumvented with a negative five volt surge, a technique employed by ColorDreams.  Non-scrolling sections of programs developed for this system would often be drawn prior to a Sprite-0 collision.  Unauthorized software for this system could be played using HES ports.  This system powered the (*) PlayChoice-10 arcade cabinet.  Its SA03 soundchip is used by Anamanaguchi to produce chiptunes.  For 10 points, name this videogame console, originally sold with R.O.B. and Super Mario Bros. by Nintendo.
NES [or Famicom; or Nintendo Entertainment System; prompt on Nintendo]
9

140566-)
This thinker uses the term "carpentry" to describe the tools we use to practice metaphysics in his book, Alien Phenomenology.  This man explored the link between "hyperemployment" and the massive market share of Apple in his book The Geek's Chihuahua.  One project by this man pressures you to grow tomatoes as fast as possible without causing an E. coli outbreak, and another centers on a TSA agent constantly given new restrictions.  This man created Bacteria Salad and Jetset.  He is probably most famous for a project created for Jesper Juul's 2010 "Social Games on Trial" event and allowed players to use "mooney" to buy things such as an oil-covered variety of the title animal.  For 15 points, name this videogame critic who designed the Farmville parody, Cow Clicker.
Ian Bogost
9

150473-)
At the top of Draynor Manor, a character of this profession reverts another character back into a human during the “Ernest the Chicken” quest of Runescape. Another character with this title in his name is responsible for originally capturing the subjects of Van Gore’s paintings; that character gives the player the Poltergust 3000 in Luigi’s Mansion. A more notable character with this profession has a grandson named (*) Gary and asks “Are you a boy? Or are you a girl?” before allowing the player to select either Bulbasaur, Charmander, or Squirtle. For 10 points, name this profession held by such characters as Birch, Elm, and Oak, who research Pokemon in their laboratories.
professor [prompt on “doctor”; accept professor of Pokemon, accept Professor E. Gadd, accept Professor Oddenstein, accept Professor Oak]
3

156993-)
One city in this province was successfully defended when Cyril Vinticae noticed that his defence force were in league with the marauding ice tribes. The capital of this province is ruled from The Blue Palace by Elisif the Fair. This province saw a civil war between the (*) Imperial Legion and the Stormcloaks, the latter of whom are based in Windhelm. This province was troubled by the return of dragons until Alduin was defeated by the Dovahkiin. For 10 points, name this province of Tamriel which is the home of the Nords and the setting of the fifth main series Elder Scrolls game.
Skyrim [accept Mereth, accept Keizaal, do not accept or prompt on “Tamriel”]
7

158040-)
This character can use a warm doublet or food made with Spicy Peppers to survive freezing areas. In that game, this character gains access to the map by climbing Sheikah Towers and can paraglide off tall mountains. Recurring items used by this character include the pegasus boots, the (*) hookshot, and empty bottles used to collect fairies. To increase this character’s health, the player must collect pieces of heart. This character finally gained the ability to jump in a 2017 open-world game for the Nintendo Switch. This character’s main weapon is the Master Sword, and his primary antagonist is Ganondorf. For 10 points, name this protagonist of The Legend of Zelda franchise.
Link &lt;JR/BY&gt;
4

158125-)
Minigames played by these animals include DJ3K and Pizzatron 3000, both of which were invented by Gary the Gadget Guy. In Super Mario Galaxy, the ray surfing mini-game takes place in galaxies inhabited by these animals. In Super Mario 64, you get stars by returning a baby one of these animals to its mother, and racing down a slide against another of them, to beat the level (*) “Cool, Cool Mountain.” A game named for these animals had an “Ultimate Safe Chat” mode and famously strict banning rules for profanity. These birds named a cartoon-style MMO featuring pets called “puffles.” In 2017, Disney shut down a game named for—for 10 points—what birds’ “Club”?
penguins [accept Club Penguin; prompt on “birds”] &lt;AF&gt;
4

