65956-)
The Kelly Leak factor and Orr factor are two reasons given for this man’s induction into the Pantheon, written
about in Now I Can Die in Peace. Along with Dazzy Vance and Greg Maddux, he is one of three pitchers to lead
his league in ERA by more than a run. The star of the Italian horror film Ratman is a notable friend of this athlete,
and that actor, Nelson de la Rosa, is known as his “midget.” He was traded from a team where he played alongside
his brother Ramon for Delino DeShields. He has endured many chants because he once called a division rival “his
daddy,” and in a 2003 Game 7, he was controversially left in to pitch with disastrous results, leading to the firing of
his manager, Grady Little. He won his first Cy Young award in 1997, with the Montreal Expos. In 2009, he did not
pitch until August 12, yet started Game 2 of the World Series for the Phillies. For ten points, identify this Dominican
pitcher who won the the 2004 World Series with the Boston Red Sox.
Pedro Jaime Martinez
9

70590-)
During the 2002-2003 season, this NBA team became the first to not dress twelve players for a single game. Alvin Robertson scored this franchise’s first points, although that season saw a Rookie of the Year performance by a point guard from the University of Arizona. On draft day in 1998, this team traded their first-round pick Antawn Jamison for a guard from North Carolina.  With the ninth pick in 2009, they picked Demar DeRozan, and in 2006, this team took the Italian seven-footer Andrea Bargnani [barn-YA-nee] with the first pick in the draft. Recently signing Hedo Turkoglu as a free agent, for ten points identify this team captained by Chris Bosh, the only Canadian NBA franchise.
Toronto Raptors
9

72879-)
Alums of this university now playing in the NFL include Eagles tight end Brent Celek and Steelers linebacker Andre Frazier. Urban Meyer once played for this university, which plays for the Victory Bell against the Miami RedHawks. This university's football team won the Missouri Valley conference under Chuck Stadley and, almost forty years later, Conference USA under Rick Minter. During the 2009 season, this program quarterbacked by Tony Pike went undefeated during the regular season and came back from 21 points to defeat Pitt and win their conference. For 10 points, name this university, whose football program plays in the Big East, and whose coach Brian Kelly left the team for a job at Notre Dame before a Sugar Bowl matchup with Florida.
University of Cincinnati Bearcats [accept either]
7

76501-)
A driver with this as his first name won the 1996 Formula One World Championship. A
basketball player with this as his first name was the 95-96 Rookie of the Year and a businessman
with this as his first name founded Roc-A-Fella Records with Jay-Z and Kareem Burke. An actor
with this last name appears in the movie Team America as an idiotic man who can only say his
own name and he would also play the role of Bryan Woodman in Syriana. A baseball player
with this as his last name hit a grand slam in game seven of 2004 ALCS and was notably forced
to have his long hair and beard cut when joining a new team. FTP, give this last name of Johnny,
an outfielder for the New York Yankees and Matt, who has played the role of Jason Bourne
Damon (be nice and accept Damon Hill, Damon Dash, Damon Stoudamire, Johnny Damon or Matt Damon)
3

77991-)
Wynalda scored the first goal in MLS history for the San Jose Clash in a 1-0 victory over this club, 4 time winners of the MLS Championship, this club was the first MLS team to win the CONCACAF Cup in 1998.
D.C. United
8

78075-)
This man's first assistant coaching jobs came at Hawai'i and then during the first years of Jim Boeheim's job at Syracuse. This man led Boston University to their first tourney appearance in 24 years before working under Hubie Brown for a team he would later coach, the Knicks. This man took (*) Providence to the Final Four and he is the only man to coach three different teams to the Final Four. For 10 points, name this failed NBA coach and current Louisville head coach.
Rick Pitino
8

81898-)
One of these appellations pays respect to the star of Jerome Robbins's Opus 19: The Dreamer. Another of these names pays tribute to the title character of a 1966 Jack Kirby and Stan Lee trilogy. Another of these names was self-given after its recipient noted "excellence is not a singular act, it's a habit." The most recent one is an homage to Eastern Europeans like Vladimir Radmonovic. These appellations include "Big Baryshnikov," "Big Aristotle," and Wilt Chamberneezy, and after a deal that saw Shawn Marion traded for their owner, their ranks expanded to include "Big Cactus." For 10 points, name these names that include "The Diesel" and "Shaq Fu."
nicknames of Shaquille O'Neal [accept obvious equivalents]
6

114640-)
The signing of this free agent caused Omer Asik to request a trade. He set a Finals record with 9 blocks in a Game 4 loss, but his team then lost the 2009 NBA Finals to Los Angeles. In 2012, Andrew (*) Bynum was dealt to Philadelphia as part of a three-team trade that made this player a Laker for one season. For 10 points, name this center, nicknamed "Superman," who signed with the Houston Rockets in 2013.
Dwight Howard
2

155392-)
Two answers required. An activist group deliberately chose the day of an event involving these two people to break into an FBI office outside Philadelphia, which revealed the existence of COINTELPRO. These two people began brawling in an ABC studio after one of them called the other “ignorant.” One of these people once claimed he would have pushed the other into the Olympic flame during the 1996 Olympics. One of these people taunted the other with a small gorilla doll before an event bankrolled by Ferdinand Marcos. Hollywood veteran Burt Lancaster commentated a full, fifteen-round match between these two people in Madison Square Garden that was called “the Fight of the Century.” For 10 points, name these two boxers who faced off in the “Thrilla in Manila” and were nicknamed “Smokin’ Joe” and “the Greatest.”
Muhammad Ali AND Joe Frazier [accept Cassius Clay in place of “Muhammad Ali”]
7

157973-)
Nickerson Field and Alumni Field served as temporary homes for this team, which was the eighth and final franchise of the AFL. This team was owned by James Orthwein until 1994. A player for this team claimed that the other team “made one good play” all game despite scoring (*) 41 points. This team holds the record for most yards in a playoff game, despite losing that game. Players for this team owned by Robert Kraft include Dont’a Hightower and Julian Edelman. This team triggered both the “Spygate” and “Deflategate” controversies in recent years. For 10 points, name this football team coached by Bill Belichick who lost to the Philadelphia Eagles in the 2018 Super Bowl.
New England Patriots [accept either] &lt;SPQR&gt;
4

158094-)
This team’s three perfect games include a 2012 game pitched by Philip Humber. This Major League Baseball team forfeited the second game of a 1979 doubleheader after their field was destroyed on Disco Demolition Night. Mark Buehrle [“burly”] and Paul Konerko helped this AL central team beat the Astros to win the (*) 2005 World Series. In a “black” scandal, this team threw the 1919 World Series. Guaranteed Rate Field is the home of this team, whose crosstown rival won the World Series in 2016, breaking a 108-year drought. For 10 points, name this baseball team that shares a city with the Cubs.
Chicago White Sox [prompt on Chicago] &lt;SCW&gt;
4

158156-)
One soccer player from this country was arrested during a sex tape scandal after blackmailing a teammate from the national team. This country is the birthplace of an Atlético Madrid forward known for a celebration inspired by “Hotline Bling.” Edinson Cavani is the current all-time leading scorer of one of this country’s clubs, where he plays with teenage sensation Kylian (*) Mbappé and a Brazilian who’s the current most-expensive player in the world. A player for this country retired after an infamous headbutt in the 2006 World Cup final. Neymar left Barcelona for a club from—for 10 points—what home of Real Madrid manager Zinedine Zidane and the club Paris Saint-Germain.
France [or French Republic; or République Française] &lt;MK&gt;
4

160136-)
This city's Lingerie Football League team is nicknamed the Bliss, and plays in the same stadium as its MLS team, whose players include Cory Gibbs and Dominic Oduro. Former players on this city's hockey team include a centre known for his Spin-o-Rama move, Denis Savard, and a left winger nicknamed the Golden Jet, Bobby Hull. A baseball team from this city was five outs away from the 2003 World Series when Moises Alou was unable to catch a fly ball due to interference from Steve Bartman. For 10 points, name this city home to Wrigley Field and the Cubs.
Chicago
6

