62493-)
In one episode, this character wears a purity ring after he and his girlfriend Tammy attend a Jonas Brother concert. In "Best Friends Forever," his will ironically states that he doesn't want to be seen on television if he is in a vegetative state. In one episode, it was revealed that his parents were involved in a Cthulhu cult, resulting in his bizarre superpowers as Mysterion. As a result of his attire, most of his dialogue is heavily (*) muffled from the viewer. For 10 points, name this red hooded friend of Stan, Cartman, and Kyle who in a running gag was frequently killed off in early episodes of South Park.
Kenny McCormick
3

66058-)
Two characters on this show are introduced to laser tag by a man who calls himself "hunter," and one of them later tries to dance to the Pussycat Dolls. Jerry identifies a brick as intended for him on this show, and claims that the company is the right size. Another character on this show lies to his parents that he won a vacation to Hawaii after failing to live up to his brother's success in Kansas City. The employees of [*] Mid-American Novelties become outraged in one episode of this show when Todd denies a five-day holiday for Diwali. Rajiv, Manmeet, Gupta, and Asha are call center operators in, for 10 points, which NBC comedy set in Mumbai?
Outsourced
3

76269-)
**This man authored The Theory and Practice of Macroeconomics in Developing Countries after attending the London School of Economics, a work for which he won a Nobel Prize. Like his ancestor, who signed the Declaration of Independence, this man served as Governor of New Hampshire.  His court appointments include Christopher Mulready and Evelyn Baker Lang, and he was wounded during an attack in Rosslyn.  He defeated future running-mate John Hoynes in the Democratic primaries with the help of his chief of staff, Leo McGarry, and is first mentioned in the phrase "POTUS in a bicycle accident" during the pilot episode. For 10 points, name this United States president played by Martin Sheen, a central character of The West Wing.
Josiah "Jed" Bartlett
7

84312-)
Brian Bloom played Carter on this show, who was tasked with storing coltan reserves, while Richard T. Jones portrays James Ellison, an FBI agent who at one point consulted with the title character's psychiatrist.  One episode of this show, appropriately titled Queen's Gambit, features the Turk, programmed by Dimitri Shipkov, playing a chess match for a government contract.  Summer Glau plays Cameron Phillips, named for the director of the movies the show is based on.  Also starring Thomas Dekker as John, for 10 points, identify this FOX show about Skynet and a bunch of Terminators.
Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles
3

93010-)
One show on this television channel features Little Suzy and the title character's mother, named Bunny. In addition to Johnny Bravo, one of this channel's shows included such characters as Mandark and Dee-Dee,who bothered her brother. (*) For 10 points, name this television channel that aired such shows as Dexter's Laboratory and The Powerpuff Girls but is now better known for airing Regular Show and Adventure Time.
Cartoon Network [accept Boomerang before "Mandark" is read]
1

136241-)
Isaac Brock recently described this city as a "collection of human turds" and recalled having to use an axe to run people out of his house here. Despite both of them being from Atlanta, Young Thug and Bloody Jay released a recent mixtape titled "Black" [this city]. The Dead Kennedys song "Night of the Living Rednecks"recounts a violent encounter with some kids in this city. A bookstore owner in this city tells a visiting Aubrey Plaza, "every time you point, I see a penis." This location of Women and Women First (*) Bookstore is where "you can put a bird on something and just call it art," according to a skit declaring that the "Dream of the 90s" is alive in this city. It isn't Austin, but this city is really into a slogan urging its residents to "Keep" thiscity "Weird." For 10 points, name this setting of a current TV collaboration between Fred Armisen and Carrie Brownstein, the largest city in Oregon.
Portland, Oregon [accept Portlandia]
9

139404-)
Qarlton Chelsted resigned his office in protest to the plans of a leader of one side in this conflict to burn his own capital. Lords Grandison, Cafferen, and Fell joined the eventual victor of this conflict after he defeated them at Summerhall. This conflict was ultimately caused by a knight naming someone other than his wife the "queen of love and beauty" after winning a tournament and later locked her in the (*) Tower of Joy. Ser Willem Darry brought the child successors of the losing side in this conflict to Essos. This conflict's victor killed the enemy commander, Rhaegar, in single combat with his war hammer during the Battle of the Trident. For 10 points, name this conflict that toppled the House of Targaryen and placed the eldest son of Steffon Baratheon on the Iron Throne.
Robert's Rebellion or the War of the Usurper (accept answers that suggest this is the conflict that makes Robert Baratheon king)
9

149495-)
A character of this kind was originally shown to be living in a dream of Richie’s, but a later edit added a scene of that character erasing minds and moving to Boulder, Colorado for a spin-off. Another character of this kind is constantly referred to by an acronym rather than his given name of Gordon Shumway. A character of this kind was permitted to stay by(*) Stan Smith as a thank-you for saving him from exploding grenades via a laundry chute at Area 51. For 10 points, name these people on Happy Days, ALF, and American Dad, who are extraterrestrials living with a human family.
Aliens living with a family [or Aliens living in a household] &lt;David Dennis&gt;/&lt;ed. SP&gt;/&lt;ed. JO&gt;
3

149730-)
On this TV show, an elderly woman unwittingly asks out a priest she meets during physical therapy, and that woman is an illegal immigrant from Venezuela. That woman’s daughter had the title character when she was sixteen with her later husband, the telenovela star of (*) The Passions of Santos, Rogelio de la Vega. During season three, a part of the title of this CW series is crossed out after the title character marries her detective boyfriend, Michael Cordero, Jr. For 10 points, name this show on which the title character is accidentally artificially inseminated.
Jane the Virgin
3

152081-)
An Australian show set in one of these places follows Bea Smith’s rise to power and is titled Wentworth. The protagonist of another show set in one of these places creates a pain-relieving back ointment from chili peppers and cocoa butter. The cancer-ridden Rosa runs over Vee with a van after departing from one of these places. One of these places is the main setting of the third season of The (*) Walking Dead. In a show set in one of these places, the transgender Sophia Burset is a hairdresser and Crazy Eyes becomes obsessed with Piper Chapman. For 10 points, identify these places, one of which is the setting of Orange is the New Black.
prison [or jail, or penitentiary] &lt;SAM&gt;
3

152188-)
This man played the history teacher Chuck Noblet on Amy Sedaris's show Strangers With Candy. One of this man’s speeches argued that approval polls should be disregarded because “reality has a strong liberal bias.” This keynote speaker at the 2006 White House Press Correspondent's Dinner guest hosted the public access show Only In Monroe, where he interviewed (*) Eminem. This man would interview representatives in the “Better Know a District” segment of a show in which he regularly called Bill O'Reilly “Papa Bear.” For 10 points, name this television host who recently left his namesake “Report” to host The Late Show.
Stephen Colbert
3

152212-)
2. In a show set in this city, the murders of Lila Stangard and Sam Keating are investigated by Middleton University professor Annalise Keating. A man from this city tells his son that he has “the HIV” at a carnival while under the alias of Dr. Mantis Toboggan, M.D. A show set in this city features the milk-loving McPoyles, the homeless priest Rickety Cricket, and an illiterate, (*) glue-huffing man who constantly pursues The Waitress. In that show set in this city, Charlie, Dennis, Mac, Dee, and Frank run Paddy’s Pub. For 10 points, name this setting of How to Get Away with Murder, a city that is, according to one show, always sunny.
Philadelphia [accept It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia] &lt;SAM&gt;
3

157958-)
On this show, a man throws a vase at his wife in a drunken argument over a pregnancy, after which she puts a Z-Eye block on him. This show often features the song “Anyone Who Knows What Love Is.” A character on this show mocks another’s Labour Party platform as the animated bear (*) Waldo. In one of its episodes, people ride exercise bikes to earn “Merits.” Everyone is rated from 1 to 5 in its episode “Nosedive.” On this show, Kelly falls in love with Yorkie, who turns out to be a locked-in old woman “living” in the simulated town of San Junipero. Technology’s impact on society is examined in—for 10 points—what Twilight Zone-like British sci-fi show on Netflix?
Black Mirror &lt;MK&gt;
4

157991-)
A policeman on this show is framed for murder by Hannibal Bates, who realizes that he’s forgotten what he used to look like. Its title character defeats an enemy by making an electrified underwater cyclone. On this show, Tom Cavanaugh has played several versions of one character, including one from Earth-2 and a novelist nicknamed (*) “HR.” Its villains include Savitar and a “Reverse” version of the protagonist who is defeated by the title character, Firestorm and the Green Arrow, and is named Eobard Thawne. A particle accelerator explosion at S.T.A.R Labs gives powers to Grant Gustin’s character in—for 10 points—what CW show about Barry Allen, a fast superhero?
The Flash &lt;MK&gt;
4

