94231-)
One boss in this video game is Morpheel, and when you defeat him, you receive the last of the three "Fused Shadows" that later permit you to enter this game's final level. The title character of this game is Midna, who serves as your guide. This game's protagonist is turned into a wolf by Zant, but later returns to human form when he finds the Master Sword. For 10 points, name this video game from the Zelda series, which was delayed over a year so that it could become one of the first games released for the Wii.
The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess
6

99905-)
This character once became Secretary of Defense under the name "Dell Rusk." He was responsible for funding the right-wing group the Watchdogs and enjoyed playing Chopin's funeral march as he killed his victims. This man's most frequent aide is Brock Rumlow, who killed Diamondback's brother. His identity was also used by the Communist Albert Malik, who ordered the murder of Peter Parker's parents. This character kills people with the "Dust of Death," has a daughter named Sin, and frequently used clone bodies prepared by Dr. Arnim Zola. A 2011 film saw Hugo Weaving play this character, who was deformed by Dr. Erskine's super soldier serum and broke from the Nazis to found HYDRA. For 10 points, name this crimson headed villain who usually opposes Captain America.
Red Skull [accept Johann Schmidt, either part, John Smith, either part, or Aleksander Lukin, either part]
9

108693-)
Early EPs by this band include Manic Hedgehog and Drill, and "Happy Song" was released under their original name, On A Friday. More recent singles by this band include "Supercollider/Butcher" and "The Daily Mail/Staircase." Solo albums by members of this band include Familial, Norwegian Wood, and The Eraser, the first being released by drummer Phil Selway. More familiar songs by this band include "There There," "Pyramid Song," and "Reckoner," and albums by this band include Pablo Honey, Amnesiac, The Bends, and OK Computer. For 10 points, name this Thom Yorke-fronted band with songs like "Karma Police" and "Creep."
Radiohead 
4

