62414-)
According to Pliny, Zoroaster lived on this food while in the wilderness. Varieties of this food from China include Rushan and Rubing. The term "Friulano" is exclusively used in Canada for one type of this food, other types of which include the Norwegian gjetost and the French chevre. It is created using the enzyme rennet, which causes the coagulation of (*) casein, a protein found in milk. For 10 points, name this food whose varieties include Stilton and Gouda.
cheese
3

63220-)
This word is an acronym for a Sun file format used to package Java applications. This word also titles an album which has songs like "New Year's Day" and "Sunday Bloody Sunday" by U2. An Edwin Starr song wonders what this is good for to which the refrain offers "Absolutely nothin!" Also the name of a card game involving a standard deck in which equal face value cards invite the titular action, for 10 points, name this word coupled with peace in a Tolstoy novel.
War
3

64279-)
In the Berlin and Kay model, this is the seventh color term that emerges in an evolving language, immediately after "blue." In Czech, objects of this color are described as "hnedy" and in Mandarin, this English word is "bulang." It is "khoom" in Hebrew and "ghahve ee" in Persian. In French, this English word is "chatain" when describing hair but "marron" in most other situations. In English, this color can refer to certain "shirts" worn by Nazis or to astronomical objects intermediate in size between planets and stars. For 10 points, identify this color that sugar acquires when mixed with molasses.
brown
3

72851-)
This sculptor of the Symphony in Orange, No. 1 once refused to buy a million-dollar landscape because "it doesn't
match my furniture", and responded to another individual's artistic statement with the deadpan "You
misspelled Weltanschauung". When asked his opinion about evolution, he says he "can't tell the difference"
between humans and monkeys, and this character who was caught using a tuna fish sandwich once claimed that his 
companion's explanation of the Noodle Incident "deserved a Pulitzer". Intended by its creator to represent the
"subjective nature of reality", this club secretary of G.R.O.S.S. was inspired by Sprite, its creator's cat, especially in
the way he habitually greeted a certain six-year-old by pouncing on him. Cartoonist Bill Watterson created, for 10
points, what stuffed tiger and best friend of Calvin?
Hobbes
7

73053-)
One football player with this surname was drafted out of Kansas State by the Seahawks, and after signing with the Falcons, and was moved to left tackle before the 2008 season. Another man with this surname got his first real start writing for Andy Richter Controls the Universe, and that writer taught a seminar on rewrites at USC that centered around the script for the pilot of his most recent work. Another man born with this name summarizes his political philosophy using the words “borders, language, and culture,” and has written books on herbal medicine and homeopathy, and was recently banned from Great Britain.  For 10 points, give this shared surname of Atlanta Falcons tackle Todd, Mad Men producer Matt, and the talk show host known as Michael Savage.
Weiner
7

76445-)
A parody of this event on Family Guy was caused by David Hyde Pierce. It was further parodied at the end of the South Park Episode, “Good Times with Weapons”.  It was the subject of a lawsuit by Terri Carlin which apparently sought billions of dollars in damage and it caused the television show “ER” to edit the scene of an elderly patient in an episode aired shortly after this event. It was part of a larger event that also included Nelly and Kid Rock and it occurred at the end of the song “Rock Your Body”.  Despite the harsh criticism it received, it was poked fun at a year later in a GoDaddy.com advertisement. Although CBS quickly went to an aerial view, it was not enough to prevent over half a million people from complaining to the FCC. FTP, name this controversy during the Super Bowl 38 half time show.
wardrobe malfunction (accept answers like Justin Timberlake ripping of Janet Jackson’s shirt, basically, accept any answer that refers to the “incident” but prompt on unspecific answers like “Super Bowl XXXVIII halftime show")
3

78067-)
One recent book by a native of this country describes the use of "brown-brown" and the experience of receiving a Run DMC tape from Nurse Esther. In addition to A Long Way Gone by former child soldier (*) Ishmael Beah, this country was featured in VH1's documentary Bling and in a 2006 film involving Captain Poison, who is involved in smuggling with Danny Archer, played by Leonardo DiCaprio. For 10 points, a Kanye West song that samples a James Bond theme also refers to "diamonds from" what war-torn country?
Sierra Leone
8

87258-)
This was the codename used by Americans for a Japanese Enigma machine. With an extra E on the end, it is the name of the English novelist who wrote Brighton Rock and The Quiet American. In an- other context, its types may include harlequin, kelly, and shamrock. It was also Rachel's last name on the show Friends, and it wasn't easy being this for Kermit the Frog. Identify this word used to represent a political party and a color.
green
3

96299-)
One character in this non-Zelda universe is known as the Daughter of the Nine Moons and is made the ruler of a polity bounded by the Sea of Storms. The main character of this universe uses a sword with herons on its hilt and is able to destroy the threads of one's existence with a technique called balefire. The first book in this series features a journey to Whitebridge by a group of characters from the Two Rivers District. Towers of Midnight and The Path of Daggers are two of the fourteen main novels that comprise the mythology of this series, which includes a figure that is constantly reborn as a Dragon to fight the Dark One. The title of this series comes from an entity that is spun by the Creator, which endows life with its spokes. For 10 points, identify this fantasy series created by Robert Jordan.
Wheel of Time
7

115963-)
This was the popular nickname of James Cole, a Grand Dragon of the Ku Klux Klan who attacked the Lumbee Indians in North Carolina in the late 1950s, only to get routed. One of these animals is the only member of the genus Satan, while another called the Candiru, or Vandellia Cirrhosa, is a parasite native to Brazil and Bolivia. One of them named Namazu causes earthquakes in Japanese legend, and Slue-Foot Sue rode one with just one hand while taking pot shots at the clouds with her six-shooter. This animal and a chisel represent the name of Menes on the Narmer Palette. This animal's maxilla exists only to support its barbels, which are the proper name for its most recognizable feature. The Great Mekong type is revered in Thailand. The setting of George Gershwin's Porgy and Bess is named after, for 10 points, what group of fish whose Channel type is a Southern delicacy, and which appear to have whiskers?
catfish [prompt on "fish"]
8

123286-)
In one of this author's novels, Luke Castellan and Thalia Grace take in Annabeth Chase. This author's novel The Son of Sobek links several of his other works, including a series about the adventures of (*) Carter and Sadie, a series about Magnus Chase, and a series beginning with The Lightning Thief. For ten points, name this author of the mythology-inspired Kane Chronicles and Percy Jackson novel series.
Richard Russell "Rick" Riordan
1

123327-)
Works in this medium include Kelly Turnbull's Manly Guys Doing Manly Things. Other Canadian artists working in this medium include Kate Beaton and Ryan North, who produce Hark a Vagrant and a work featuring Utahraptor and T-Rex that is updated at (*) qwantz.com [dot com]. Saturday Morning Breakfast Cereal is in, for ten points, what online medium used for xkcd [x-k-c-d] and The Oatmeal?
webcomics (prompt on comics)
1

146998-)
This character tells a joke with the punchline "I am Pagliacci." He tells one character that he will be the "smartest man in the morgue" if he does not heed his warning, and he begins a graphic novel by remembering a "dog carcass in alley... tire tread on burst stomach." He leaves his (*) diary in the New Frontiersman's crank files, and his last words are "Do it! Do it!" He develops his persona after Kitty Genovese's death, and his investigation of another character's death leads him to discover that Ozymandias plans to unite the world against a made-up alien threat. For 10 points, name this vigilante in Alan Moore's Watchmen who takes his name from a psychological test involving ink blots.
 Rorshach or Walter Kovacs (accept any underlined portion)
3

147347-)
The Riot Squad was formed after this phenomenon destroyed Middletown, Arizona, and an organization named after this phenomenon was formed by General Ryker. The Cathexis Ray was designed to manipulate psionic energy and this phenomenon, which (*) Doc Samson then used on himself. The menial laborer Samuel Sterns and the soldier Emil Blonsky were exposed to this phenomenon, turning them into the Leader and the Abomination, respectively. While trying to shield Rick Jones, a scientist was fully exposed to this phenomenon during an atomic bomb test. For 10 points, name this form of radiation that turned Bruce Banner into the Hulk.
gamma rays (prompt on partial answer; prompt on just radiation; accept answers involving weapons that use gamma rays, but prompt on just descriptions of weapons)
9

147439-)
Mages from this location named Calculha and Majistra created the Zodiac Crystals, one of which was held by the Tuatha de Danaan in one of its “Five Lost Cities.” Because of the actions of the lineage of Shalako against this location, blonde hair became known by its residents as “the Mark of (*) Kordax.” Dr. Vulko advised this location’s most famous resident. Orm Marius has repeatedly tried to conquer it, and Black Manta killed one of the princes of this kingdom. Its royalty include Tula, Garth, and Mera, and its resident Orin was raised as the son of the lighthouse keeper Tom Curry in Amnesty Bay before becoming a superhero who wears an orange shirt and wields a harpoon. For 10 points, name this kingdom ruled by Aquaman.
Atlantis (anti-prompt on Poseidonis, Tritonis, or Thierna Na Oge; Editor’s note: Yes, I’m aware the Tuatha are from Irish myth, but I checked, and they’re not mentioned as living in Ireland in the comics)
9

153236-)
A book by James Bartlett claims that a bartender who died at this place, Loren Tate, reportedly still serves some of its patrons at its Hat &amp; Hare Pub. Visitors to this location can listen to piano music played by a ghost named Invisible Irma, and newcomers here are asked to say “open sesame” to a gold-plated owl. A coffin diorama used to prove the concept behind a ballroom dance scene for a Disneyland ride is housed in this near-duplicate of the Kimberly Crest house. The entertainer Dai (*) Vernon spent much of his later life at this location, which was where a stage assistant named Bess would hold annual séances to contact the ghost of her husband Harry Houdini. An incredibly strict dress code is enforced at this location, which bills itself as the “most unusual private club in the world.” In the 1960s, William and Milton Larsen opened—for 10 points—what Hollywood social club in which entertainers perform mentalism and acts of legerdemain?
Magic Castle
9

154495-)
A sculpture of a huge one of these creatures with a single hubcap for an eye who clutches a Volkswagen Beetle can be found in Seattle's Fremont neighborhood. A character named after this type of creature is the best friend of Snufkin and the love interest of the Snork Maiden in Tove Jansson's Moomin series. A pickpocket-foiling talking purse alerts a trio of these creatures who are kept arguing for hours by (*) Gandalf in The Hobbit. Businesses who primarily make money through frivolous IP litigation are said to be the "patent" type of these creatures. Peer Gynt decides not to become one of these creatures by marrying the daughter of their Mountain King. For 10 points, name these Scandinavian beings that give their name to deliberately inflammatory posters on the Internet.
trolls [accept Boyg until "Boyg" is read; accept patent trolls; prompt on giants] &lt;Jose, Mixed/Other/General Knowledge&gt;
5

157591-)
A ruler of this nation was kidnapped by Geoffrey Sydenham, the leader of the organization ICON. The teachings of the pacifist Changamire inspired a violent anti-government movement in this nation called The People. A military unit from this nation has an elite subunit called the Midnight Angels. During an insurrection, the leader of this nation was recorded speaking to Jorick Kroawl, head of (*) Genoshan intelligence. This nation was first united by Bashenga, who also began the cult of Bast and was the first to be empowered by the Heart-Shaped Herb. The current ruler of this country was formerly married to Ororo Munroe and had previously reversed a coup by Erik Killmonger with the assistance of the Dora Milaje. For 10 points, name this vibranium-rich country ruled by the current Black Panther, T’Challa.
Kingdom of Wakanda &lt;EM, Trash (Film)&gt;
7

158008-)
One of these characters stops screaming “won’t, won’t, WON’T” after the protagonist unthinkingly tells him to “shut up!” A group of these characters are first met after the protagonist tickles a pear in a painting. One of these characters wears a massive pile of the hats a main character knits as part of a one-person organization (*) “promoting” their “welfare.” In Deathly Hallows, one of these creatures is stabbed in the chest and buried with an epitaph emphasizing that he was “FREE,” since the sock thrown at him by Lucius Malfoy counted as giving him clothes. For 10 points, name these enslaved creatures from Harry Potter, which include Kreacher and Dobby.
house-elves [or house-elf; accept Society for the Promotion of Elfish Welfare] &lt;JR&gt;
4

158376-)
19. A Twitter account for this character includes him asking, “Can you get sick from eating the flesh of [a certain creature] if [it’s] been thawing in your refrigerator for two weeks?” This character’s alleged traits, such as being a “ratbag” and a “bastard,” are part of an internet site that is named “Say No to” this character. After riding a machine through a wash, this character says, “Finest bath I’ve had in twenty years!” This character calls another man “a crook,” “a cheat,” “a swindler,” and an “inhuman monster” after a younger relative is denied a prize. This character sings, “I never thought my life could be anything but (*) catastrophe,” in a song that follows him rising from a bed for the first time in years. This character discovers that burping will reverse the effect of Fizzy Lifting Drinks. For 10 points, name this character who was played by Jack Albertson in a 1971 film and who travels with Charlie Bucket to take a tour through the factory of Willy Wonka.
Grandpa Joe [or Joseph Bucket; prompt on “Grandpa”; prompt on “Bucket”] &lt;Gehring&gt;
9

161851-)
7. An aunt named Muriel with this surname refuses to attend Christmas after being pranked. Another person with this surname dated Penelope Clearwater, and was traumatized after seeing her petrified. A woman with this surname defends her daughter during a battle, killing (*) Bellatrix Lestrange. Two twin brothers with this surname open a successful joke shop on Diagon Alley after dropping out of Hogwarts. People with this surname usually have “red hair, freckles, and more children than they can afford.” For 10 points, give this surname of the twins Fred and George and Harry Potter’s best friend, Ron.
Weasley [accept Percy Weasley, Muriel Weasley, Molly Weasley, Fred and George Weasley] &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, AK&gt;&lt;ed. KLu&gt;
3

162416-)
Some of this figure’s campaign promises include maintaining the legality of swords and stopping environmentalists who claim that lead poisons water. In his first appearance, this figure claims that the crafting of his robes employed ten craftsmen and allowed a goldsmith to hire an apprentice. This figure teaches that, because illness is a personal responsibility, healing (*) lepers would reduce their incentive to avoid leprosy. After being convicted, this man shouts “twenty shekels to anyone who votes for me!” and thus escapes being crucified. For 10 points, name this Christian parody character created by Al Franken who suggests policies like lowering taxes in Judea.
Supply Side Jesus [prompt on Jesus; do not accept “Jesus of Nazareth”]
9

