71328-)
One character in this film sings a harmonized version of "Sweet Child of Mine" with his family. Horatio Sanz has a cameo at the end of this film as a singer who will only perform 1980's Billy Joel songs. That forces another character to sing a stirring rendition of "Por ti Volare," a success for his group, Prestige Worldwide. One character in this film is very possessive of his drum set, which causes another character to rub part of his genitals on it. The events in this movie begin after Robert marries Nancy, which greatly upsets Dale and Brennan. For 10 points, name this movie which features John C. Reilly and Will Ferrell as idiotic men who have recently become related.
Step Brothers
6

74494-)
Mehmah Roothes ran the cafeteria at this location, and its existence was confirmed by Operation Skyhook. A riot at this location was put down by the 501st legion and directly preceded the battle of Polis Massa. The person who designed it was cloned repeatedly and executed six times. A team consisting of Tol Sivron, Qui Xux, and Bevel Lemelisk designed a prototype of it, and it incorporated ideas from Poggle the Lesser. Galen Marek rescued the signers of the Corellian treaty from this place, which was constructed over Despayre. Kyle Katarn was responsible for stealing the (*) plans for this location, which were transmitted to the Tantive IV. Among its inhabitants was a Dianoga who lived in one of the Garbage Compactors.
Death Star
7

76559-)
In the 1960’s, a campy version of him was portrayed by Cesar Romero with a visible mustache. Mark Hamill voiced him in an animated version and he is responsible for the death of Jason Todd. To support his unborn child, he joins the mob as Red Hood, and later he paralyzes Barbara Gordon. In one version, his real name is Jack Napier and he commits a crime typically attributed to Joe Chill. His origin typically involves falling into a vat of chemicals at Axis Chemicals, and in a recent adaptation, he murders the mobsters Gambol and The Chechen and enjoys telling people how he got his scars. FTP, name this Batman arch-villain portrayed by Jack Nicholson and more recently by Heath Ledger.
The Joker
3

82635-)
This work opens with two characters driving through the countryside, and one of them recites a verse that repeatedly claims that the brakes are out.  The central character of this work is a bookstore-owner who rides away from an engagement dinner after stealing the bride-to-be for himself.  During the second half of this film, the protagonist convinces his son Joshua that they are playing a game in which 1000 points must be earned in order to win an American tank.  For 10 points, name this Italian film whose director and lead actor stood on his chair after winning an Oscar, a work set in a concentration camp that features Roberto Benigni (buh-NEE-nee).
Life is Beautiful [or La Vita e bella]
5

140619-)
Norse's Kurt Stammberger blamed this event on a woman known only by the alias of Lena.  Following this event, some people stopped going by aliases such as "Johnny Madrid" and "Nazzo Good".  Ben Fritz and Peter Bart are writing rival books about this event which both heavily feature Michael Lynton.  This action was similar to confirmed earlier operations by (*) Bureau 121.  Following this event, Kaz Hirai gave a CES keynote defending freedom of speech.  The first signs that this event had taken place were an image of a fanged skeleton and a hashtag referencing the GOP.  Amy Pascal was fired in the aftermath of this event.  This operation exposed products such as Fury and Mr. Turner and prompted an angry Times editorial by Aaron Sorkin.  For 10 points, name this data breech of the movie studio that produced The Interview.
the Sony Pictures Entertainment hack [prompt on pretty much anything involving The Interview before the end; do not accept things like the "PlayStation Hack"]
9

143518-)
A girl flashes eyelids with “LOVE YOU” written on them at this character, who is told solemnly about some “bad dates.” As Dietrich, Toht, and Bellocq are killed this character yells to Marion “Keep your eyes shut!,” and he ends an assailant’s (*) sword display by shooting him. This character is informed “top men” will examine an object, and he sadly wonders “Why did it have to be snakes?” In one scene, this character uses a bag of sand to replace a gold idol before fleeing from a rolling boulder. For 10 points, name this whip-cracking archaeologist from Raiders of the Lost Ark.
Henry Walton “Indiana” Jones, Jr. (accept any or all underlined parts; accept Indy in place of Indiana; accept “Raiders of the Lost Ark” before “character” is first read)
4

150559-)
This figure was granted the title “Defender of the Home Tree” for his role in negotiations with the Trandoshans. On Rugosa, this figure was the victor in King Katuunko’s challenge. The last student of this figure was a nobleman from Serenno who became one of the “Lost Twenty”. Reinforcements brought by this figure began the First Battle of (*) Geonosis. This character decapitated two would-be assassins on Kashyyyk and escaped with the aid of Tarfful and Chewbacca. After failing to defeat Darth Sidious during a duel in the Senate, this character went into exile on Dagobah, where he mentored Luke Skywalker. “Do or do not, there is no try” is spoken by, for 10 points, what final Grand Master of the Jedi Order?
Yoda
3

157237-)
Description acceptable. In one scene, this character discovers a hidden hallway after seeing a lightbulb explode in blood, and she angrily yells (+) “Get out!” after an accident causes the sprinklers to go off. This character watches in shock as gunshot executions are carried out during a riot by a woman who calls this character “the inspiration.” This woman is replaced by a “maiden” played by Laurence Leboeuf after her (*) heart is ripped out of her living body, and she watches in despair as a crowd snaps her infant’s neck. This character is apparently married to a poet played by Javier Bardem, and she’s pretty much an allegory for the biblical Earth. For 10 points, describe this character who titles a Darren Aronofsky film and is played by Jennifer Lawrence.
the mother from Mother! (accept anything describing the lead character from Mother!)
8

157427-)
Description Acceptable. A deleted scene meant to replace this one features Jenny and Marnie pranking each other, with Marnie telling her assailant “you’re not real” before dying. In this scene, one character notes that a picture on her friend’s phone is actually Channing Tatum “from his Abercrombie days.” Near the beginning of this scene, one character rejects another’s suggestion of watching Saw 4 because horror has thankfully moved beyond torture porn. This scene consists of the main characters watching (*) Stab 7, in which the characters, played by Anne Paquin and Kristen Bell, are watching Stab 6. For 10 points, name this scene from a 2011 sequel, which proceeds a film in which Emma Roberts’ character becomes the new Ghostface killer out of jealousy for her cousin, Sidney Prescott.
The Opening Scene from Scream 4 [accept equivalents, generously accept Stab 6 or Stab 7 before mentioned]
9

158144-)
In an early role, this actress says “why you gotta know something like that for sure when you don’t,” in a monologue where she repeats “it’s just till June.” Despite having only one scene, she was nominated for Best Supporting Actress for playing Donald’s mother in Doubt. In a 2011 film, her character works for the “Godless woman” Elizabeth and helps Skeeter write about her fellow (*) maid, Minny. In a 2016 film, this actress gained attention for “snot-crying” as Rose Maxson, the wife of the garbageman Troy. For 10 points, name this black actress who played Aibileen in The Help, stars in How to Get Away With Murder, and starred opposite Denzel Washington in Fences.
Viola Davis &lt;JR&gt;
4

158182-)
The most recent installment in this film series includes a number of puns on the heroine’s work as a “horologist.” A character in this series stakes his soul on a game of dice, but is saved when his father matches his wager and then loses. Its second film culminates in a three-way sword fight on a moving water wheel, while its first film includes a duel in a (*) blacksmith’s shop. Based on an amusement park ride, its second film begins with Lord Cutler Beckett of the East India Trading Company arresting Will Turner and Elizabeth Swann. For 10 points, name this series of films like Dead Man’s Chest and The Curse of the Black Pearl, starring Johnny Depp as Captain Jack Sparrow.
Pirates of the Caribbean &lt;JW&gt;
4

158211-)
This film’s villain escapes from Chorh-Gom prison using a goose feather. The protagonist of this film gains fame after flying into a stadium on a “ball of fire” which was really just a cart propelled by fireworks. After being told that his father doesn’t actually use a secret ingredient, its title character realizes the secret of the (*) dragon scroll. This movie’s title character is raised by a goose who thinks he’s had the “noodle dream.” At the end of this movie, the title character vaporizes Tai Lung using the mysterious Wuxi [woo-“she”] finger hold. Jack Black voiced the title animal of—for 10 points—what movie in which Po becomes the Dragon Warrior and learns the title martial art?
Kung Fu Panda [do not accept or prompt on “Kung Fu Panda 2” or “Kung Fu Panda 3”] &lt;BY&gt;
4

161004-)
A character in this film states that although his “heroes are no longer warriors,” “no one has thus far succeeded in singing an epic of peace.” Another character in this film lists his favourite sensations as smoking, drinking coffee, drawing, and rubbing his hands together on a cold day. A location in this film is named after its cinematographer, Henri Alekan. The actor who played Nick in John Cassavetes’s A Woman Under the Influence plays himself in this film, describing himself as a “compañero” and sketching the extras of a movie about (*) Nazi Germany. Voiceovers written by Peter Handke play throughout this film, in which Peter Falk reveals to Bruno Ganz’s character that he gave up his immortality to experience ordinary life. Damiel falls in love with Marion while watching over a divided Berlin in—for 10 points—what Wim Wenders [VIM VEN-derz] film about an angel who decides to become human?
Wings of Desire [or Der Himmel über Berlin] <DS>
8

161931-)
7. At a United Nations address, one leader of this country announced his nation “would be proud to extend its hand in peace.” That address occurred in Vienna, and happened after eleven aid workers from this country were killed by a bomb set off by Rumlow. This country’s most well-known leader defeated a member of the Jabari tribe, (*) M’Baku, in ritual combat. An invader of this country, Killmonger, died in a mine for a certain metal from an ancient meteor that helps grant superhuman powers; that material is vibranium. For 10 points, name this East African country, most famously led by T'Challa, the “Black Panther.”
Wakanda &lt;Pop Culture/Mixed Academic, KLu&gt;&lt;ed. KLu&gt;
3

163844-)
In one appearance, this character claims that he thought the “Waffle Fairy was just a bedtime story.” In another appearance, this character repeatedly screams “police brutality” while being arrested in an episode of K.N.I.G.H.T.S. After being told that happiness is “just a teardrop away,” this character describes being beaten by drunken party guests yelling “Piñata!” This character sings “Rawhide” and asks, “Are we there yet?” during a trip to (*) Far Far Away. This character claims that everyone likes parfait after another character compares himself to an onion. For 10 points, name this Eddie Murphy-voiced character, the sidekick of Shrek.
Donkey &lt;WG, Trash&gt;
3

